[0.0s - 29.0s]
So we left off at this point where hopefully for those of you who were following along, you were able to assemble the sample file with the data files that I provided on the website. And if you were, you should have been able to get something that looks like this. So this shows you the contours you apply the contour filter and then the visualization on the right. Shows you the the actual full data set from that particular sample file, so hopefully you're able to get this. The slides are available, so if you weren't able to follow along as I was going along, you should be able to to follow along to get to this point. If you cannot get to this point, let me know. I'll be here till Saturday or Friday and you want to work through it or you have some questions. I'm here to assist with that. So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
One of the things I wanted to point out is that we've looked at a couple of filters. What was the contour slice and. Clip so we looked at three filters, but what I want you to do if you have paraview open, so I want you to go to filters and then at the very bottom of that menu there is an item that says alphabetical. And if you look at that, that shows you all the different types of filters that are available through paraview. I did not want you to leave here thinking you can only do three types of filters with this application. So again, this goes to the point that I made before that there's a lot of information, a lot of things that you can do with paraview that we're not going to do today, but I want you to know that these things are available to you.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So what we want to know what I'd like for you to do now is to clear out your pipeline browser. We're going to do something else in our next session, and So what I want you to do is to start with a clean, clean, opening an clean display. So go through and delete. Everything that's it. If you have anything remaining in the pipeline browser, I want you to clear that.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So what we're going to do? This is something a little different from last year's presentation. I thought about a lot of you are using Python or will be using Python, or you may want to figure out how you can incorporate some of the visualization aspects of Python Apparel view into Python. So what we're going to take a look at in this exercise, you can do this. You can type the information in. We're going to play around with actually running a script or typing a script in Python commands.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And I'm seeing what how Paraview uses that information and how you can actually create some visualizations using that. So Parapara view is a rich scripting support for Python. It allows you to. If you take a look at you downloaded the application, you will see in the main part of that a little indicator or part of the package. It says Python, Paraview, Python or PV Python that allows us to actually to run these pair of these Python keep getting those mixed up. These pipeline commands and so one of the things that you will need or you will utilizes something called a server. Manager again at the end of this presentation I have some additional resources, so if you want to find out more about this you can just to give you a starting point for that.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So the server manager is actually a library that is designed to make it easy to build distributed client server applications.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So if you will open up if you still have paraview open what I want you to do is to open up the Python shell and so you can access it through tools, the Tools tab, and then Python Shell and you should see something that looks like this. And what we're going to do is we want to type in some commands and what you will see is the output in that 3D window that we looked at before. So does everybody have the Python shell open? He's following along OK.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So what we want to do is to create an object in this object is going to be called cone. So you want to type in. So first of all your display should look like this. You should have nothing in the pipeline browser. Have an empty Python shell. And what I like to do is to type in cone equals cone capital capital C on the second cone parentheses, no; And always used to if your programmers certain languages requires that no;

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And what you should see once you do that is once again your. Pipeline browser has a new object. In this case is cold one. Remember before when we loaded our file, the first date of the data file before we applied any filtering to it. That was the first object that appeared because we don't have any of this. At this time, the cone object should be what should be displayed in the pipeline browser.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So now when I want you to type help and then cone and what this is going to do is it's going to show you all of the properties for.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Bacone module, so you probably cannot read this on my screen here on the projector, but you should be able to see it more clearly. And when I ask you to do is just scroll through there and see what properties exist for this module and these are the things that we can reference when we add things to our script that we can call and get information from or set these settings so this gives you the full list of properties for that object.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So let's check and see what the resolution is. We can also we can check it and we can also set it. So let's check and see what the resolution is at the prompt. If you type cone dot resolution and I believe it is case sensitive so you want to type that and it will tell you automatically what the what the resolution is. Now you should see this in two places, one in the scripting window, but also in the settings in the pair of the window so. Where you have the. On your left you should see some properties that were set each time we we check or we set some settings, you should see the changes appear.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
On the left there, so let's set our resolution. I set it to 32. You can set it to whatever you choose, but we want to set it by typing cone dot resolution equals 32 and we're going to take a look and see what all of this looks like after we've actually typed in the commands to set these settings for for this object. So if you just joining us, suggest getting there you want to type, you want to open up the pythons shell you want to type in cone equals. Capital C cone parentheses. You don't have to do the help, but I just wanted you to see how you can access that to see what properties can be set an we just checked to see what the resolution is and now we're setting it to. 32

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So take note of what has happened, what's happening as you're typing in these settings. The resolution I set mine to 32. You can also see the radius. The height. All of these things we can type in and set as we go forward and then when you type them in. I also would like for you to just pay attention to what's changing so that you can see where these properties are being set in the application as we are providing.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
That additional information. Now what we're going to do is we're going to set the properties for the center, so we're going to set center or want to type. Let's see what it is. So you type cone dot center and it tells you is at 0. But we can change that.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So what I'd like for you to do is change where the center is. I set 123. You don't have to be 123. Set something something different than what it was before and take note of like I said, where these properties settings are being set. Because this will become useful for you when you start to write your own programs or your own scripts. Just as a sanity check to see. In fact, if those changes that you've indicated actually taken into effect.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So in this case you can also with vector properties such as this one, you can set the settings as well as make ranges of elements listed as well so. What I want you to do is to type cone dot center. Bracket [0: #2. Close the bracket equals bracket 2, four, and So what we're doing. Once you do that, then type cone center. You can see we're setting the values for the center values for this object, and we've only set the first 2. For this particular and you can see the center values are showing up. In the properties section as well, again, these are just the values that I'm I put in. Feel free to explore putting different values and seeing what the what the output might look like.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So following in. The same vein that we've done with the other two datasets. We want to read. We want to filter and then render. So now we went in or we given it an object to to work with, we've set the resolution. So now we want to apply a filter and in this case the filter is called a shrink filter. So at the prompt. Type in shrink filter. It is case sensitive, so it's a capital F equals shrink and then cone in parentheses.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
The next thing that you want to type is shrink filter. That input and these are commands that's telling her of you that this the the input that it wants to work off of, is the output from the shrink filter.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And what you should see is something like this. You won't have the same object code that's displayed here, because that is specific to my system, so you will have a different object code which you should see something that says Paraview Dot Server Manager got cone object at some memory value.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
As a result of that. You should see that an additional object has been created in the pipeline browser, so we have our original original cone object and now we applied the shrink filter and so that has appeared in that pipeline browser as well. Notice that the little I icon to the left is grayed out, so if you're looking in your 3D viewer window, you shouldn't see anything because we haven't made it active yet.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So at this point we want to force Paraview to update, because remember it doesn't show you anything until you say apply. And because we're running. If you were loading it, loading the file into paraview, you would click the apply button, but because we're running this from the Python window, we have to force it to say, OK, we're ready to to update. We want to see.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
What the output looks like, and So what we want to do is type in these commands. So we want to type in shrink filter. That update pipeline and this is telling it again to just update the pipeline with the output that we've indicated through the scripts. Script commands that we've entered. The next line that you're going to type is shrink filter dot get data info information. Parentheses dot getting number of sales parentheses. You only type the blue text. The green is what you will. The program will return after you hit the enter key, so you're going to type in the three lines of code that's in blue. And after you hit the enter key. The Green tax is what you should see, or some number from what you should see after entering that. So after you you type in get data information getting numbers of cells, number of sales we want to get data information, get number of points and so that's going to tell you give you back that information. OK.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So what have we done? We created a pipeline and that's what this is all about. Is creating a pipeline that your data follows through and that is the output is presented or displayed rendered in your 3D window. So we created a cone object. We set the cone resolution. We set the cone center properties. We applied a shrink filter and then we updated the pipeline.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So now we want to see what it looks like. Remember the seven stages or steps that I pointed out at the beginning of the presentation where it's an iterative process. Remember, your first visualization won't be your last. You're working through those seven steps, maybe not in the same order that were presented, but at some point you do work through those steps in some form of fashion. So in order to view what you created or the objects are two objects, you need two objects are needed to render the output, so that's what's called a representation an you need of you. So a representation takes the data object and renders it in the view itself, and the view is responsible for managing the render context and the collection of representations so they work hand in hand. So that's what we want to do, we.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Want to prompt. Paraview to actually show us what we've created, so at the prompt you want to type show. In parentheses, shrink filter and remember it is case sensitive and then that's going to give you the output that you see or some variation of the output that you see on your right. That's in green, so you only type the blue text again. The memory location will be different for what you will see, but it should give you back a memory location if you don't have that then you need to let us know because that's what that tells Paraview where to look in order to. To represent that that object the next line will be render in parentheses again. You'll get the text doesn't green, so you're going to type in these two lines that you see on your left, show in parentheses, shrink filter and then render. And what you should see.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
In your. 3D viewer. Is this? So were you able to get this or to get something similar? You should be able to rotate it around explore and so these are the types of things steps that you can do. Just using your Python shell in order to, if you know what you're looking for, you know what you want to create. You want to play around with just entering the actual code. This is a quick, quick way to do that, so you should see something similar, so see if you can slice through that so we've gone through. The slicing we've gone through creating a contour. We've gone through clipping, so see if you can apply. Based on what we've done before, and the slides are available, so you should be able to go back and take a look at that. See if you can actually create a filter to slightly the slice through it. I'm thinking maybe a clip may be better, but she choice. I want you to to play around with creating another type of filter to this output that you created using Python. You can do this through in the Python. I'm sorry her review. Environment itself, so see what you can do. See if you can apply. Another filter to create. Some additional output. And see what? You're able to to generate there. So we able to create or apply some filters, so a filter. So now this would be the process again for.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Getting your data or getting running script creating a script. Using the shell. So this is what we did. We created the cone. We assign it to an active object. We set a property of the active active object. We applied the shrink filter to the active object. Shrink is now active at this point and we told it to show it to us, and then we actually rendered it in the active view.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Now your next task is to. Create that file. You seen that the we're going to create another VTK file, but we're only going to use the Python calls that we just use that we typed in at the command line.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So what I want you to do is take that information, those those commands that you typed in an. I have a better screen so you won't try to. It won't hurt your eyes trying to read through this just gives you some comments as to what you did as we walk through this. What we want to do is to take each one of those.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Rose and type him into a text editor, so you want to type in cone. You want to set properties. All of this. These lines of code and save it in a file. This time we want to save it as dot PY because this is our Python file. Remember, if you are using a text editor you want to file save as and make sure that it is not tacking on that dot TXT on the end because this is a Python file. So if you noticed. I'll let you tie, I'll talk while you type it in if you notice. If you take a look at the Python shell at the bottom, there are a couple of buttons. One that says run script. That's what we're going to use to actually load this file that you're creating. So if you have a Python script that you are using or you want you create to interface with paraview, you save it and dot pie dot PYX file extension. We're going to. Once you save this, we are going to locate that file, and we're going to, say, run an. We're going to see what happens when we do that. So take a moment to type the type those lines of code in. Save it. With that PY file extension. Remember where you saved it, because we're going to have to go and locate it. And then we're going to run it from the Python shell. OK, so everyone had an opportunity to type those lines of code in and you've saved it. And with the Python extension that PY. OK. OK, well what you should see. We can go back here.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
At the bottom. Somewhere. Yes, runscript.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And if you click on. Runscript. That's going to open up a dialogue box. And then what I want you to do is to locate that file with the DOT PY extension. And click run script and what you should see is another object will appear in the pipeline browser. And that will be the second object that you just created there. So has everyone been able to run? That file successfully. I'm gonna take silence to mean yes, OK? So do you have any questions so far about anything that we've covered now that we have the slides that are back online and they are readable? I do encourage you to take a look at that to the slides and worked through it again. Well, for the first time and if you have any questions let me know. What we're going to do now is I have some resources for you. To consider, I need to get back to where I was here. Going forward.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
When you downloaded paraview, you should have noticed that there is a users guide along with the download. Very useful. So if there's anything that we've covered here we talked about here that was not clear. Or maybe I went too fast over. That's a great resource for you. The things that we talked about or I presented today were to get you started to give you a starting point for the data or creating data files that will be recognized or can be recognized by paraview. Also, because it is open source and is a very well used package, there is lots of information that's available outside of what I presented here. There are some sample data files if you want to play around with those. I provided a link with them with this so it will. You can see what the different types of data looks like. Remember I said the data that you have dictates the type of tool that you use and so this will give you some ideas. If you haven't worked with Paraview before. This will give you some ideas of the different types of data that has been successfully rendered and recognized by paraview. In terms of Python scripting, I added this as an additional piece from last year to just kind of give you a little taste of what you can do with Python And Paraview working together. There is some more information on the web that gives you more detailed information on Python scripting. Python is a great language to learn and to know. As you can see, it gives you lots of flexibility to do different things and to be able to. To integrate that with Paraview just makes it even more powerful for you in the different types of things that you can do. The part of her paraview that makes this possible in order to work with Python is something called the server manager. There's a lot more information on that as well. I provided you with the link so that you can take a look at that and check that out to see what are the different types of settings and things that you would need to do or can do that will help to facilitate your being able to render your your data through Python And with Paraview. So what I'd like for you to do is. I would like to do this, open the floor for any questions that you may have considering we had some technical difficulties with the slides, this will be a great opportunity for you to take a look at the slides. An work through some of those hands on examples. I want to make sure that you have a good grasp what you would need to do in order to get data into paraview. If you haven't had an opportunity to recreate that sample test file, this would be a great time to do that. So that we can see that you're able to actually get the data into VTK file format. That is the simplest file format that, aside from a text file or CCS CSV file that you can use. So this is an opportunity to do that. So if you will take a look at the slides, see if there's anything that is not clear, yes. Yeah, they should be on the wiki. The slides are on. Is everyone able to access the slides? Yes. OK, so yes, that's right. If you missed it, the slides have been corrected or the the issue that we were having before with the slides has been corrected. So you should be able to access all of them I. Created them in such a way that you should be able to follow through the slides to recreate all of the steps that we've gone through and so at this point, if you would work through those, or if you have questions about data about visit about visualization about paraview, this would be a great opportunity to to open the floor and talk about anything visualization. So this is this is your opportunity. Like I said, the purpose of the workshop. Just to give you a starting point as to what to do if you have data, what would be your starting point for actually choosing a an application to use? Actually visualize that data. So do you have any any questions? Yes. So I guess this is probably covered in one of the links that you showing, but is it possible to link to interact with the paraview session from an external Python shell instead of the one open by paraview itself? Yes, there are. But they don't. Let's go, let's see if this will open up. Yes, you're not limit. That's a good question. You're not limited to just the shell, you can. You can interact with her view. There are several different options. Um? The server manager allows you to connect either through the shell or through Python. If you look at if you open up Python, the paraview. Application on the desktop. You'll see something that says Python server, Python PV, those types of things. Those are different ways that you can connect outside of Paradiso. You don't necessarily have to be in paraview, but you will have to set something in your path to tell it where paraview is, because it's going to be running from that engine and you should be able to run it through there. So this was an easy way to do that. To give you kind of a hands-on field, an example. Of how to to actually? Type in the the Python code and get some results almost like instant gratification in a sense. But you can do it outside of that as well. That's a good question, thank you. Any other questions? Do you have any other software packages for unstructured data data that doesn't have a physical topological mapping? So what type of data are you? Are you working with? So I do circuit simulations, but it's before it's for design verification, so it's before like a routing and placement step of how the circuit will actually be fabricated, so there's no placement data for my gates in my circuit. Interesting questions like there's graph isn't dot to that will have like a placement makeup that will do it for me. Is there any other tools that you know of? I don't know, but. Place that question on the wiki and so that way I'll have a list of the questions and I can find out for you and send you some information I don't know off hand, but if I once I go back through and see what questions are being asked and I think someone else asked the question as well. If you place the questions on the wiki if I don't have an answer for you, I can find someone that they will OK and I have a second question. Is there a way to create interactive visualizations or like videos or GIFs? Yeah, so we were just having that discussion. Well know from comparatio you can do animations. It will let you animate. So yes you can do and it will let you save the animations Now what format? I haven't done it myself, but what format we have to take a look. But that's one of the things that it can do. Will do animations for you now. I think it would be you should be able to save it in a certain different format that would allow you to make it available. How that works. I don't know what it is a feature of parenting that stuff that you can utilize. Thank you, it also does time series, so if you have time step today to an you want to run it so that you can see the time. Since you can say that output as well from paraview and that gives you just another another component of a feature. Apparently that you can use. Yes, I just have a quick question about like how can we get a really good quality EPS files for the publications out of paraview like? What would be the best efficient way to do that? When you save your data if you look at that? And you you can save your files with a higher resolution. You can set the properties when you when you save it to to give you better quality images from paraview that way. That, I think is the only way that I'm familiar with as to how to get those high resolution images or pictures and it will save the the rendering window. That's what you would when you do file save as you can tell it to either save the entire screen or you can save just that 3D Window view did that because one one time I just compared the quality between Matlab, Paraview and Gnuplot, and Paraview had worse quality of the EPS file that I inserted. To my paper, when version apparently was 4.0, I guess. OK, an I just extracted the EPS file from Paraview. So have you tried it with a more current version of no? I haven't tried since then because I thought that paraview is just for monitoring the residuals, shaking the quality, not for publication purposes. Well, I think if that is an issue an is called to the attention of the the people who actually maintain it, then they would address it so that they may or may not know that this is something that's needed or wanted from the community. I would say have you checked the the mailing list, not the mailing list, but the group that you can, you can post an email or post a question or look at look at the. The knowledge base of different questions that have been posted. Pretty sure someone is probably already asked that question. I would say take a look and see what's been posted before. If it hasn't been resolved or addressed then send me an email and I can. I know someone that works at Kitware that I can can check and see, thanks. The Right flags that can modify to do exactly what you want, but this is yes, you can do exactly what you want. It just go to file save as and you will see at least a formance. So EPS if if it's one of the formats then this will be the solution. If it's not there, I can remember safety. PS If it's not there then you can save a PNG image and just select the resolution. The properties 2010 thousand whatever you want. It will be an extremely high resolution figure and will do exactly what you want. Does Paraview, or do any other packages that you're aware of, support live visualization of a currently running simulation? Can you repeat that live visualization of while I'm running simulation, the simulation might take hours or days to run. Can Paraview or any other package that you're aware of show me alive visualization that's updated as my simulation dumps its data to a file? In real you mean like in real time, yes, real time. The only code that I know of. Where I used to work, we wrote the code itself to do it. I don't know of any packages available that would allow you to do it, that's something. I think we fall under the heading of in situ visualization, which is a research challenge and visualization to be able to create visualizations on the fly or as the data is being generated. I'm not aware. Are you aware of any packages? You can connect from from well so you in your code you have to instrument commands to output the type of graphics. The well that you want to save and then from from a private client you can actually connect to the remote visualization. So Google Preview in Civilization, yes. Any other comments or questions? So have for those of you who had trouble with the slides, are you able to work back through the examples that were provided? You have any questions about those? Yes. I do have one embarrassing question. I'm sure it's a simple thing, but it's something I ran into and then my battery died before I could figure it out. OK, after I rendered the Conan let in this last. Exercise I was for whatever reason I was unable to rotate the cone. I was only able to pan around. Is that something that? Is easily explained. You should be able to rotate it. I mean I don't know why you are unable to pan. Sorry. There's a little button that says duty, or is this 3D and you can toggle that. It's probably something pending pending. OK, that's probably almost thank you, because when I create when I walk through work through the example itself, I guess by default mine was already. It was already checked and so I was able to rotate it and not just pan, so that's probably what it was. So there's lots of more information. These are just some of the things some of the sites links that I've. Identified to kind of give you again. Like I said the starting point. Give you a starting .4. Visualizing your data visit is also another application they run off of the same backbone. There are other different types of tools out there, depending upon what your. What type of data that you're visualizing? So if I may ask you all what types of data are you working with? 'cause I know you all are different, dealing with different types of data. Not everyone has the same type, So what type of data will you be working with? Or do you anticipate working with in your your research? OK. Anyone else? Most of my data is comes from, ultimately molecular dynamics trajectories. So I notice that the trajectory files, the time formats that I'm familiar with were not in the list that you showed earlier, but that may be because there's already a. Relatively well developed body of software for visualizing. Remember that's just a subset I couldn't fit all of the data types on there. That was a subset to give you an idea of the different types of files, so I wouldn't say that it's not on there. It just what may not have just been on that slide. So I encourage you to take a look and see there's a complete listing of the different types of file formats that Paraview recognizes. Your file format may be on there, just not on that slide. OK, and then there's a other formats that the other files that I typically visualize are. The outputs of my own post processing software, the software that analyzes the trajectories, but I would assume that it's probably not difficult to write the data out to a format that would be easy for paraview to. Interpret or you can create. You can write a reader for it. It is open source and so the code for writing different types of readers is out there, and so if it's if it's more time efficient for you to create a write a reader for it, then I recommend that you do that as opposed to trying to transform your data into a format that to one of these existing formats is that the code is there for you to use to see. And there are examples of how. Other readers have been created. Typically all of you will probably be working with data just like what you've described, where you're creating your own type of format, I would say take a look at how to create a reader for your data set and so that way you would know that pair of you if you get it to read it into paraview. You can also read it into to visit as well, 'cause BTK is is a recognized file format, so once you get it into that format then it should be any problem as to where you can take it beyond there. But I would recommend taking a look at how to create a rewriting a reader and it will be specifically for your type of data or data set that you are creating. OK, thank you. Any other questions, comments? Yes. Have you had success reading data directly out of HDF 5 files? So we have unstructured grids from astrophysics simulations and converting all of those into vtu files, then gets us from like 100 or few 100 gigabytes of data to a few terabytes of data, and it would be nice to be able to just read the data directly out of the H5 files. I have not worked with that type of data, so I can't speak to how. What that process would look like or be like, but it looks like my colleague here has. So there are many different ways to reach their five in Paraview preview does not understand they have natively, but depending on your simulation package. So for example answer which code are talking about? OK. So for your code I don't know, but there are ways to release their five into an interview. So one way is to wrap it is what it's called. I think XML format XML if I think about 100% sure. So basically it's another create another XML file which is description for what's inside your file is your file, so it's kind of redundant because you have the description meta data already inside a 5 plus you have how XML, but that will force a private rated properly. But there are also a bunch of simulation package Mr. Physics that save data. As each day five in a certain format, and probably can read that, for example, can read Enzo, it can read Flash, and those red can write out a 5. And yeah. There's some other ways, but I just don't remember right now. Any other questions? Comments. So going forward. What would you like to see is a part of this visualization workshop that would help you in your work. I take silence to mean everything was wonderful. OK. I thought the Python scripting was very helpful. We've had struggled with that trying to get Python scripts, maybe some more advanced parts there would be helpful, but that's something that our collaboration is. Tried dealing with and found difficult sometimes. OK, that's very good to know, thank you. It was one of the things that I debated about. I didn't it was not included last year, but I wanted to add something new to this presentation and given that Python allows you to do a lot of different things and the flexibility that it affords you, and I felt like that was a good addition to have. And so I agree perhaps more more advanced topics on scripting with paraview. You mentioned earlier that in your experience, Paraview has trouble with actually very very large datasets in comparison to something like visit. In your experience, actually. What are the limits on what pair of you can do? That so good question. There is actually some information on the web that tells you where parentvue times out it. Hold on, let's see if I can. Think when you get into. Like TB size data. Maybe even before then crap hold on. So I think that, um. 10s of thousands of data points. Well, you can. You can visualize that. More so with visit because it's built to. Handle these large datasets of that time. That's where you get into needing those high performance resolution or high performance resources. So if you have, let's say 500,000 points or 500,000 data points that you want to visualize or. A data set that's large along those lines. Really huge and along the lines of big data. Paraview, I think will suffice with visit will allow you to do more, so a parallel. OK, sorry. So yeah, so I did have a slide. I can't find it here, but. Visit was built specifically for. Visualizing large datasets using high performance resources. Parallel rendering things of that nature. OK. Thank you so I can certainly add to that. There is a misconception that preview doesn't scale as well as visits. So in everything I've seen so far paraview skills as well as visit so you can easily go up to 10, ten 10s of thousands. Of course for visualization and I still have to say problem where preview breaks, so 500,000 points is not. I mean it's nothing you can easily visualize. I don't know 8000 cube datasets on multicore workstation and if it doesn't fit in workstation consideration in cluster. So wasn't visit specifically developed for this preview preview was developed specifically for Terascale Terascale visualizations as well, so it's just it's marketing issue where visit folks. Specifically, they say that it is designed to scale to hundreds of thousands of process, so I have not seen a single problem we visit works with preview breaks. So I would love to see a problem where where people have trouble visualizing the preview. Because typically what I've seen is that people that have been told that visit. If you're if you're going to to visualize these hot, large datasets along the lines like big data, those types of things that visit would be the application to choose versus versus paraview. I wanted to ask Ken Paraview or visit or are there other tools? Can they be run headless like Windows UI whatsoever? Can it be run completely from the command line? I don't know. I've always run them through running the application, but with. With Python you should be able to implement or to run the engine. The libraries that are associated with each one of those within that, the code, and so then says yes if it's scripted. With Python you can run it completely in batch mode from the command line. Yes, so the way to do large visualization clusters is certainly not interactive. You want to debug it interactively on a small number of cores on your work station and then just. Copy this script to to the cluster where your data is sitting and then just run it on large number process. So yes, you can certainly do it in design for that. Any other comments or questions? Oranges. OK. That's what I have for today.
