In 2011, Time magazine named Predictive Policing, one of the. Please, dear Sir, Madam, please let my chief and I know we can go by the software that will tell us where to go. And their evaluation discovered that there was assessed their notice statistical evidence that special operations take probably coming from big, Natural and greater primary actions and special operations. An interesting Lee in a study of three police department's Manning found that I T and it's supporting features did not change any significant practice. And as a force multiplier. The technology can be used not only to guide police operations, not only to direct direct patrol, but can also keep track of police themselves and where they are and where they are when they're not on a predictive policing mission. Peculiar knowledge of urban environments, which is in fact a possibility, I think. So what is it exactly? 2012, which defined it as this the application of analytical techniques, particularly quantitative techniques, to identify. Likely targets for police division and prevent crimes. Wrap up with a few sort of concluding thoughts. One one is actually the this turning inward of the algorithms becausw there already experiments underway in certain places, or at least trials with using predictive analytics to spot police corruption. I think, the fact that predictive policing software has emerged so strongly on onto the market, particularly following the financial crash of 2008, is no accident. However, predictive policing software privileges the element of arrest essentially and of crime control, and I think that's a sort of narrowing of measure which can cause some if it calls for some. Following quite, their SoC will need to overturn some of its obsession with causality in exchange for simple correlations. Pred Pol promotes its predictive policing software by advising that predictions are available at one click of a mouse. Yes, the Tick Tock technology technical capacity is hidden from the user and the science is already built in.