There's a model with firmer time delay in it that we look at some mathematical analysis. So the so the system is stable when there's no time delay, and then at some point when the tide time delay has reached our critical then we will have a periodic. So for values of deley close to tag critical, the nonlinear system is expected to exhibit a periodic solution. Difference. There's also a formula for the critical time delay, which will use in a minute to inform or price for the inference. Just to summarize what Lynn Stats method can do, so it's a technique for uniformly approximating periodic solutions to ODS. When regular perturbation methods fail, we regard the frequency is known in advance, and we solved by demanding that appropriate time series expansion contains. No secular terms and the result is closed form approximate expressions for the amplitude and frequency of oscillation. OK, so as a summary of these results, as I mentioned earlier, we've shown that the ratio of the amplitude of M RNA and protein has a simple characterization. We can also show that the frequency of oscillation has a maximum value, which can be explicitly turned defined in terms of the model parameters. Parameters as unknowns. Some of the pricing example I'm going to show you have been experimentally measured on some informed. Harata ET al have presented data and a mathematical model for the Hess one feedback loop. Monk has showed that observed assilah tree behavior can be explained by incorporating a time delay. Have used Bayesian Bayesian inference for parameter estimation in ODS, and we're interested in extending this to the case where we have delay differential equations. This analysis can also inform the choice of prize when parameters are inferred using Bayesian inference and a full Bayesian MCMC computation improves our monks conclusions giving. We've got an, which is a Hill coefficient P0, which is a threshold regression coefficient, and we have a constant time delay, chow. In the case where the decay parameters are equal. We also use the analysis to inform the choice of prior for Bayesian inference. For this dynamical system, we linearize around the equilibrium. We show that when there's no delay in the system that the equilibrium is stable. Doctor VO, we obtain expressions for P star an M store which are equilibrium points. And then we define Zita and Eater to be deviations from the equilibrium. Are you know time delay? Basically that we always have a stable situation. If the decay constants are not equal then we have a stable spiral when the difference between the two decay constants is small, sufficiently small, and if they're not sufficiently small, then we would have a stable fixed point otherwise. This is when the bifurcation is born and we will have to purely imaginary and solutions will give us a periodic solution with. So for values of delaye.