[0.0s - 29.0s]
Welcome to my talk. I'm Robert and I will present our results on the deployment of our DFA microdata and my performance on the web. And thanks to our keynote.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
All are kind of familiar with schema arc, and beside that we have also others for calculators used and different markup languages which allows us Webmaster to mark up the content presented in HTML pages. And make this content readable by machines and based on the vocabularies behind. Also interpretable and so.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So far we have. Some big players using the stator and also enforcing it on the one hand we have the. The search engine companies like Google and Young Dicks and Yahoo. Microsoft who pushed a little bit the schema or cabaret as we learned and they use it for example for this rich snippets to kind of present content when you search for something which is directly on the page. Beside that we learned Facebook is also using this data or this markup language. In this case our DFA and with the Open Graph protocol too. Link data from outside of Facebook inside to present entities which are for example on IMDb to show on your wall or show your activities you performed outside of Facebook so far this.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Some companies could afford kind of crawling the stator and yeah, 'cause they have big machines, alot of money and then there comes. Nonprofit foundation the Common Crawl, which now has his goal to maintain, crawl and make a public available across all kind of the web so everybody can use it. Get the data for free so you just can download it. It's hosted at Amazon Simple Storage System and so far these the common crawl has three crawls available between 2008 and 2012, so the largest one and. The latest is from 2012 gathered in the beginning of 2012 and contains over 3 billion HTML pages from over 40 million websites and the user patron crawler, which leads to crawl being a snapshot of the most popular sites, which also leads to the fact that some pages are represented. Some sites are represented by more pages like you youtube.com has included kind of over 90 million pages in the crawl. But others websites like over 90% of the websites are just represented by less than 100 pages, and as this data is available we thought about that these structured data, which is included in the in the HTML page. This might be interesting for several several topics like research tasks, also building applications based on the data, and we saw that might be a good idea to just make this data available and also run some statistics on it. Because so far we have. Yeah, Google and Yahoo Publishing data about it, but unfortunately we don't have the original data about it, so we.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Came up with the Web Data Commons project, which is a cooperation between the University of Mannheim and Karlsruhe Institute of Technology and we have had the goal kind of to extract the structured data microdata. My performance in RDF a from the cross from the Common Crawl which they provide and make the data available and also the analysts to encourage researchers to build on applications or do further. One more topic, specific research, and at the moment we offer two datasets, so one is based on the crawl from 2009 and 10 and the news wants to the latest, which I also will talk about in the next slides is from 2012 and includes over 3 billion HTML pages and we found over 7.3 billion RDF triples. So this is the data we provide when we extract the data.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
I would start so how we extract the data so the data is the original crawl is provided in Amazon's storage system, so to make it easy and simple and save some money.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
We just have a task queue where we put in all the data we want to crawl so the files where the original artist HTML pages are included. So those are around 700,000 in this case then we launched.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Um servers which ask that ask you give me something to do, then they get a file reference to.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
By reference, the corresponding file is read from the from the storage.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Past using any history so it's open source extraction framework. So where you can just put in HTML and you get the structured data out of it and resulting RDF data is stored again too. To the storage doing this, running one.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
100 machines in parallel. We managed to extract the whole corpus using 5600 machines hour and spending less than 400 US dollars, so it's quite affordable, OK, and what did we found so?

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Um, we found that just remember this call is from 2012, so it's not the news data, so please don't don't nail me on there some difference between the data of the results of the keynote speech. So we found that.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Five point 3% of all the all the pages in the crawl contain structured data, so one of those formats is at least diploid, so microdata my performance RIERFA.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And we found when aggregating to the website level. So pay level domain level we found at 5.6% of the integral included websites offer data which is marked up using these formats. Um, we now have a look at.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Top level domains like Comments, DE and so on, we found that there is a slight difference in the adoption between more generic. Top level domains like or cornett in comparison to the country specific as.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
More generic seem to or tend to deploy with a higher likelihood structured data. Up next

[464.0s - 493.0s]
You thought about OK, is our what we find. So, uh, there's more popular sides or kind of smaller niche sites where some geeks think about OK, we should use these new upcoming thing and we used Alexa 1 million, top 1 million website rank. They give out so you can download them and we compared to or we checked the top websites and we found that the top websites. I'm more likely so that the average percentage of websites in these top 100. 1000 thousand, 10,000 are higher than the average, so highly frequent visited pages more likely to use at least one of these markup languages. And also we found that they are not kind of the top. The top agents do not restrict themselves to just one of the markup languages, but they use several in combination.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
We then check the different formats so we have our if a microdata and microformat. We see also as a keynote speaker said my performance was H cart is the most deployed in the in the web. So 1.7 million websites use. My performance was mostly age card with XN, so describing persons and relations between persons within block systems. Second larges is RDF A at that time and we found 150,000 pages using microdata. OK.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And we see the pages and looked at the know at the website and checked. How rich they are or how many of the classes and properties which are available they use. On one website we found are dead as a large number of websites which just use a small saddle so few classes and properties that only some of the of the websites use. Really a rich variety of classes and properties to describe the content. So mainly they stick to 12 classes and say OK, we offer product and they just have to product classes and then two to three properties describing this product. And the following I will just quickly go through the different formats we have. So the topics described by.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Body of a we found here in the in the top is deployment of the Facebook Open graph classes like Artikkel Block and website as the keynote speaker said, it's kind of a difference in between the usage. So this you might find on the top of the page that's being valid for the whole page. So we find large number of classes describing content management systems further down refined product descriptions and correlating ratings so. You can kind of build, think about building up. Yeah, consolidate product rating page or something. Was that? Also we find navigational information, which is these breadcrumbs you find at position 10 and also company listings where companies are described going to me.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Actual data we have a similar similar topics like content management systems like Unblocks we find also the navigational information. Again breadcrumb here at position 2 but also a product information, business listings and ratings again. And now we thought about OK as the schema Ark for example of a survive variety of properties and classes to describe the several concepts we did a little bit more deeper.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Into at this point the Commerce data. So we checked websites using schema or product. So they describe product and we check what other properties they use on the same website website and we found out that from these 16 / 16,000 websites, 14,000 use at least the product name 10,000 used a description. But then we go down to only 4000 and use a rating on the page. So the deployment of these this richness which is. Possible in the schema org for example is not yet deployed in this and there needs to be some some work to get data out of, for example description becausw. This is used for example. Also just describe skills so you needed skills for sorry no. Neck.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So we have here we also dipped into the job posting, so we did something similar. We checked OK. What properties are used to describe jobs. And here we see again. OK at least 50% of the of the websites offering information about jobs. User description on .6 and. But yeah, as we know from the schema order are 18 properties which could define a job posting and actually 7 to 8 are just used on a. Yeah, larger number of websites and for example in this description we did a little bit deeper into this. Manually we find a lot of other information which could be tagged for example as skills. So there is a job posting skill property. This could be used, but in most of the cases directly put into the description.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Then we come to the last markup language, so microformats here as I sat H card is the most deployed, so with 1.5 million websites our second one is events described by age calendar and again we have products and also the receipts on a smaller side of. A smaller number of sites. OK azte

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Always first one kind of doing this all large scale, getting information out of the web is affordable. As you remember, we spent $400 to create this corpus and get more than 7.3 billion triples for net. The cool thing about this, or what I think, is that it's large. It's real world data, so it's how the data are. Kind of the formats are really used, so it's not artificially and it's not controlled, and it's also easy to use as we provide RDF data and major topics when you want to work with it. A persons blocks and product data and also event data and minor topics are like this. Job postings where we had around 500 pages offering data and also kind of the receipts. Minor minor topic here.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Based on this, there are some challenges and opportunities to work with it. I mean, the web is the largest data space available and when you want to do something with the data which we really kind of want you to do, there are several challenges you have to face. We have different websites which are all datasets basis in the end which have to be integrated. The usage of the vocabularies is completely uncontrolled, so there's a lot of dirt in it. As I described, properties are used not always in the way. Maybe it was intended to do and also as I sat there, it's just a few properties you so that you kind of expect. Kind of a rich, structured data, so they're kind of you can think about smart things or smart approaches to come up to kind of clean this data, integrated and work with it. So that's it. Thank you for the.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Attention and if you want to know more, just visit our website. There are more analysis statistics and also you can download the whole data. Thank you.
