So the next topic I wanted to tell you is if we try to leave or or discrete decisions and we try to understand that biology is often continuous and it's very difficult to say that this is phenotype and this is phenotype, so it's about regression models for high content screening and. So it was very easy to say that this is type A and this is type B and let's just classify them. Selected assailed 300 Micron deep in the brain, approached the single cell and connected to it. But we can also take out the single cell and and the most advanced results we have is really picking up the nucleus and Dan fever together with the Allen Brain Institute. So how many horses do you see? So we need to be really precise, fast, and intelligent. That one is image quality improvement, taking images, making them good looking a second or important thing we work on is segmentation and tracking of single cells. You can think of nowadays, fluorescence, brightfield, DIC, even super super resolution and we even outperformed the calibration techniques. So it's I think still at the moment it is still the state of the art method that exists for our for background correction and you find different implementations like in image J, math website provider and. So we we designed models like that and what you see here is a higher order active contour model that actually fits on the edges of the image. And then last year there was this big competition called the Data Science Bowl where the task was. It's called image style transfer learning, so the big problem with deep learning is that we need training examples. Follow the fashion it's it's very fashionista. OK, so you were an expert and then what you did is we have nine sets on the image so this is the classical data processing pipeline. Is that the biologist expert? did I entirely or at least partially discover my data and think about this? For some of you, but the idea is that we would like to be more precise, much faster using less human resources and asking intelligent questions from a Hume. It's it's called the active learning scheme is that we haven't a pre labeled set. Using active learning is really something to consider. So here if you develop the method code the phenotype Finder, it's basically the idea is that we have the large phenotypic space.