[0.0s - 29.0s]
So my name is shouvik and I'm from LinkedIn. Sky and Cor to engineers at Lincoln who helped us deploying our work and deeper cover. Wall is my boss. Now, if you don't like what we did, then you can blame him. If you like what you did, then I'm happy to take the compliments.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Now, jokes apart. So advertising is important for LinkedIn. It makes up about 25% of the revenue for LinkedIn, and there are two different advertising products. So this is what the homepage of LinkedIn looks like. There is the activity feed of her LinkedIn and there is a side rail on the left. Now on the activity feed you may see some sort of advertisements. These are called sponsored updates. And on the right trail you may see some ads. These are called LinkedIn ads. For a choice of better name.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Now, how does advertising at LinkedIn work? Advertisers have to set up a campaign an A campaign is defined for three major facts. These are the important features for the purpose of this talk. The advertiser has to specify a target segment or target segment may look like Csos living in the finance industry, working in the finance industry, living in San Francisco. Sify our daily budget, how much they are willing to spend another day. And also a bit value all the auctions at all the advertisements that linked in our auction based. So a bit is important. Now. Many, most companies use auction mechanisms to rank ads. And oftentimes these are second price auctions. So what happens is advertisers set up a set of bid and for any eligible impression you rank the possible ads by their bid and the winning ad pays the bid of the second guy. Now I'm pushing a few things under the carpet here. There is a lot of complexity involving the. There may be cost per impression ads. There may be cost per click ads and all of them may work together in participate together in the auctions. To keep it simple, I'm just dealing with bids for now.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Now. Just using the auction mechanism is not optimal, especially when there is a budget present. The reason why it's not optimal is it's a greedy algorithm that means you are trying to optimize the revenue for each individual impression, and that is not necessarily the optimal for the revenue for the entire day. And it's not even not also optimal for advertisers. Why is it not optimal for advertisers? Some ad campaigns may be performing very well, and if they are then they can potentially exhaust their budget very early. An if they exhaust their budget very early then they have a very short camping life and you can also imagine that the audience that they are reaching they're very narrowed. They're not getting a good representation of the audience, they are. They want to target. It's also suboptimal for the publisher. And it's not optimal for revenue, and it's not very efficient for matching the Members with the advertisers. There is a huge amount of literature on serving strategies for. Online advertisements and we looked at a lot of them and we tried out a few of them in our practice. But what we found is there's a problem. Alot of these things that exist in the literature they talk about like some theoretical aspects in the sense that. Worst case scenarios and how much worse you are off from the optimal things like that, and they all make certain assumptions. Certain assumptions on how the impressions come to the website and typically a standard assumption, is like the impressions are all IID. That's a very wrong assumption, an that doesn't break things down a lot. For example, for linked in our budget day runs from UTC, UTC, midnight to the next day, UTC midnight, and given that the traffic pattern changes a lot. Over the duration of the day, sometimes there's a lot of traffic coming from you from Asia. Then there's traffic coming from Europe, and then there is a lot of traffic coming from the North, the Americas. So that creates a lot of problem and the algorithms that exist in the literature really did not work.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So we tried something simple that. And based on a lot of iterations that we were able to get it to work. So here is the high level overview of what we did. We monitored the spend of each campaign. We monitor the spend of each campaign and if a campaign is spending too fast now I'm keeping that within double quotes. I'll explain that in a minute if a campaign is too fast and we know that we will have some traffic left for the campaigns later in the day, then we throttle that campaign. We throttle that probabilistically. What we do is we do not allow it to participate in all the auctions it is eligible for. So there are some components of this, so we need forecasting what we need forecasting cause we want to spread out the budget spend of the campaigns and we want to spread it out proportional to the traffic available for that campaign. So based on the forecast we get for each campaign we come up with an allocation plan. The allocation plan is just the forecast of impressions for that campaign, and this is a very high dimensional forecasting problem. So we have a good solution for that, but we're not going to talking about this here. The other important thing is the tracking. So we track the budget spend of each campaign very closely.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Now, once we have all these tools, what we do is we come up with some term work that we call pass through rate. That is, the probability with which we allow a campaign to participate in an auction. So this pastorat is depends on or depends on the campaign. It's specific to every campaign and it also depends on the time. So it's changing overtime. The way we change it is simple. We change it to recursively whatever the value is at a particular time we. Modify that a bit to get the pastorate for the next time point. And the only factor that we use for this is what is the budget spent so far compared to the allocation? If the budget spent is more than what we allocated it to spend, then we reduce the probability. If the budget spent is lower than what we allocated it to spend, then we increase the probability. Now the rate of modifications of the past rate is. We chose that to be constant. We chose to be a constant 10%. Now you can argue that why your constant? We can look at the the derivative of the budget spend curve and take that. Make the dependent on that. But since we modify the groups. The parser it's very often that is every minute we can get out of that, so we can modify it very fast. Sorry about that. So in a nutshell, this is what it's doing whenever the spending curve is below the allocation, we are increasing the pastorat whenever the spending curve goes above the allocated curve, we decrease the pass rate and this is how it goes.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Now we ran some large scale experiments with that and we saw some fantastic results. Now. Observe note that this is not the standard ABI experiments that we can run in that we typically run a lot in the industry. Why is it not a standard AP experiment? Firstly, it is based on campaigns. Each campaign is different, and once we apply a technique for this algorithm for a campaign, we have to use the same algorithm for the duration of the day. We cannot change it at all, and the different campaigns they all participate in the same auctions. Now we tried to get some components in the graph to separate out so that we can run nice baby experiments on the same day, but we were not able to do that. The graph seems to be very highly densely connected. So instead what we did is we ran an alternate day tests. That means it's one day, pacing off, pacing on off on off on like that, and we did that for at least two weeks. Two weeks because we get the equal representation representations for all the different days. So we tested our algorithm for two different ad products at Lincoln that I mentioned. One is the sponsor updates and the other is LinkedIn ads. And we got some pretty good results. Firstly, we are trying to improve increase the campaign lifetime. We do pretty well in that in sponsored updates. We increase it from 6 Anna Lake about 7 hours to 17 hours. For LinkedIn ads we increase it from like about 13 to 14 hours to almost 20 years. This mechanisms mechanism helps advertisers becausw since we are randomizing the impressions that advertisers are getting, they are able to reach a more. People with the same spend, so that means we are increasing the number unique impression per spend. In our system it increases the number of campaigns that are being served and it is also helpful for revenue per request. So for LinkedIn ads we almost saw about 6% increase in revenue. Another place where it's helping is the over delivery. Since we are slowing down the rate of spend of campaigns, there is less chance of overshooting the budget an.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Resulting in over delivery. So why does it help with the revenue we're trying to increase the lifetime. We should get some benefit in that we understand that, but why should it help with revenue? So this curve? This graph explains that so the dotted line is the cost per click when we do not have any pacing and the solid line is the one when we turn on pacing. And this is over the duration of a day. The average cost per click. So as you can see in the beginning of the day, when pacing is on, we lose a bit of revenue. The cost per click is actually lower, but at some point the solid line crosses the dotted line an that stays above for a longer period. So we lose some revenue in the beginning of the day, but we make up a lot more on the later latter half of the day.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
One example here why it helps with over delivery. It's just because we are spending for each campaign a bit slowly since it spending slowly it crosses the budget and stays close to the budget. Doesn't overshoot a lot.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And again, another example to show that how well we are able to match the allocator allocation curve. For for a particular campaign.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So our main contributions are that we developed and implemented an algorithm that helps both advertisers and the publisher. And we run some very large scale experiments which showed very promising results and this is very not close to the algorithms that are there in the theoretical literature, and that is something we would like to explore going forward.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Thank you.
