[0.0s - 29.0s]
Last session and keynote speaker is stuffy network. Forwarded your post Doc is in London or not? Is it actually in stressful? Just come back to London to get the fork on the topic of Bayesian learning of Bayesian networks. Or we're trying to integrate acquired knowledge in so Bayesian networks. Thank you so first of all, I'd like to thank the organizer for giving me the opportunity to talk about this work. Also, I will talk about how to recover time varying genetic network which are genetic network whose structure changes across time and the main objective of this talk is how we can include informative priors to this approach.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So first. Introduce how to model regulatory networks from gene Expression Time series. Essentially dynamic Bayesian networks. And then I will focus on two major aims. First one, detecting structural changes, changes in the network, and. So concept using available biological knowledge. So the second part, but I will quickly introduce the time varying network model and inference method which is James joint work with Microsoft an GAIL Lillian, predictable from Paris. And then I illustrate. Sorry this network on results we got on Drosophila development which goes from. Embryos and lover puper to edit, so we infer trample variation on this data. Oh this to show how we can add informative priors to this method. Because this is a biasing method, so so far we have been using usual priors that are informative, so I will propose a new form of priors and then I will illustrate this approach on. Development.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So first we are interested in recovering gene functions essentially. Today we know most of the genes of the Organism we study. So what we want to look for is their function, which can be regulatory relationships. So we are looking for some jeans who are coding from proteins an activating the expression of other genes like regulation or. Downregulation? So we can be summarized as a biological motive. So this build a complex dynamic system in between large amount of genes. So the aim is to identify this organization in large scale. Um? And this from gene expression.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
In that time. So. Gene expression data allow to measure several thousands of genes at the same time. So if we report you as experiment across the whole process, we get gene expression profiles. So this is the data we have and what we're looking for is correlation between James, so we're not interested in estimating parameters as precious talk. We just want to see to detect from a large overview which genes are potentially interacting. So this is the data we have and we denote X. It is the expression of gene I at time T.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So our aim is to detect the genes that are working together, which means transcription factors activating target genes, which is possible for transcriptional. Regulation, which is, which means that the amount of proteins will reflect the importance of. Of the regulation so then. Correct, the correlation of expression that I can be related to. Um? To regulation and then the second step we want to detect Edward Instant.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Hutton, so this is to introduce the model. So I start with the same biological multipath previously with three genes 123. And. I will model this kind of biological model with dynamic Bayesian network. So in dynamic version network there is a node for each gene as many nodes as there are time points for June 1, time T -- 1 TT plus one and then we this dynamic Bayesian network is equivalent to this motive. If you assume that each regulation interaction happened with a constant time delay so. Um? This this activation of June 2 by Gene One will be produced by this age from gene expression of. Gene one expression at time T -- 1 to world in expression. June 2 expression at time T and this along the whole process. So the advantage of dynamic Bayesian network is that it allows to model biological cycles without cycles, so we can still have the Bayesian network framework. Um?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So just to quickly recall the assumption underlying this model, I listed them here. So we first assume that the process is first order Markov. This because we only allow. Edges between successive time points. We don't go further where we could, but that would be. Enlarging the dimension which is already large enough so we will restrict to 1st order Markov. Then we assume simultaneous independence given the path. This is because there is no age between. Simultaneous gene expression measurement. Just because we assume that time dealer is short enough so that what the expression is the previous time explain better the expression at time T then other other genes. So that's a true first assumption. In this third one is time homogeneity because as you can see here it once and then just present. It's present across the whole process. So this is the assumption we want to get rid of in the in the fall.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So just one illustration. If you assume an auto regressive 1st order model. Where the expression of the gene at time T depends on the expression of gene at time T -- 1, who's a regression metrics A. Then if you assume that the error error covariance matrix is diagonal. This matrix would. Describe the biological network I took as an example. So where each non zero coefficient reflects correspond to an on edge to this one, for example from G1, trying to respond to the non zero coefficient 821. So the aim for inferring homogeneous dynamic Bayesian network is to detect the non zero coefficient of this metrics. If you assume an auto regressive network.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Process. So what we want to do is to infer time varying model so.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
We add change points to this model so you can see here change points two and three allow for change in the network structure.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So the so the model is entirely defined for P genes, anti poems, then the number of changepoint position is K. So we have a change from vector for each gene I. Which is key I and within each phase delimited by the change point. There is a set of parents F for Jimmy said that is incoming edges in the network and a set of parameters Theta. Defining the regression model. Just like here the question is inference as it is unknown dimension.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
We use a relatively urgent MCMC procedure, so this is something our. Already presented in my family last year for people that attended it, so I just quickly go through it. It's based on 4. Different moves, so we start from an initial point. So given mother with a number certain number of change points and edges and then we will propose four different types of moves. The first one is adding a change point, so when removing a change font or shifting the change point. And the 4th movie is another step another. Table of reversible MCMC for phase of ditching so inside phase we can add an Angel, remove it or estimate parameters. So this is adapted from the revertible treatment. Procedure from model selection by only you and Lucy. Which has the advantage of. Probability acceptance that he knows probability for each move does not depend on the parameters, but only on the structure of. That is only on the edges. So it allows for model selection and this is drive through the whole procedure, so this allowed to. Are all possible network? Where is the?

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Friend dimension. So just quickly priors are usual priors for multiple change points, or the number of change from follows truncated person with parameters that parameter Lambda. Then change point position. Uniform Distributed given the number of change points. That's pretty much uninformative priors, so then we have probability for births for the 4th move, with the two with the two first birth or death of the changepoint. Quiet small can see constantly it's chosen instrument small so that given certain change point. Topology of the network, which within phases has time to be estimated properly. Anne. As you can see here the acceptance ratio. Does not depend on Theta. It only depends on the number of changepoints, their position, number, number of edges and which edges. So that's the.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
The advantage of this? Method which detailed balance is satisfied so the equilibrium distribution converge to the posterior distribution and then we perform bias factor analysis to detect significant change points and.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Edges. So this is we use that method to analyze Drosophila melanogaster lifecycle. So the data are by our back money Al and Al 2002. And they give gene expression across the whole life of the Drosophila from embryo to adult going through lava phase and pupal phase. So there are more than 4000 genes and the good part is 66 time points which means we have rather long. So we can hope to infer changepoints. Moreover, we expect the regulation mechanism to be very different during the whole faces during all the phases, because well, as you can guess, very different things happen for these. They own the, especially the pupa. So we apply the method to all genes as target genes and for each change we selected a subset of 20 genes that could be parents. So these 20 genes were chosen so that they are very. They are the most correlated with the target gene over a period of 10 chattoraj time point. So it doesn't have to be very correlated across the whole process but only a small part of the process. Which is what we are looking for. We want significant correlation for a delimited values, not necessarily for the whole process, and as a result we found 50 jeans with strong evidence for being regulated different differently across the process. So for strong evidence I mean a change point, I have bias factor creatures and 12. Sometimes even. Far greater so this 50 target genes implied 52 per engines. And what we observe first is that changepoints tend to cluster other development transition. So this is.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Sure, next, so this is so here. There are a bit more change phones up to all change when having bias factor Region 3. So this is embryo faces and then level pupa and adult. And as you can see this is a number of changepoint infortainment across time. So here are the transition between embryo and lover and then transition lover pupa. Tends to be lots of change points and also here at the mid embryo phase. Cool. We were.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And this is the network. I'm sorry to beat Fulton in Ferd, so this is the result of all network in Ferd across the whole time. Like we super superimpose them and so there is a color code. I'm not sure if it's really easy to see as a projection, but so red edges started from the beginning. So the dark red started from the beginning and end during the embryo phase and then middle red. They will end in their lava Faizan then pink that will end in the Cooper Faizan. Do blue edges start after the beginning, either in the embryo faces for the dark blue and then lover pupa? Well this is just to have an overview of the whole network. Then I will focus on a subset of this network. For the analysis I performed with informative prime.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
This Pickles as you, so this is summary. Some statistics on the network infer network. So we had some gene ontology information. For these genes through the filler jeans, and 14 were known as implicated in developmental process and 50 of them were implicated in transcription activity, so they're known for that. And if you look at the distribution. Among the infer target genes. All among the inferred parent chains, you can see that. The number of the proportion of gene implicated in developmental process or transcription activity tend to be. Very similar. And the idea is. Development genes implicated in developmental process like system nervous development or hurt development are more expected to be target genes and we would be looking for their transcription factor. So it would be great to have transcription factor for for this gene. Here from here comes the idea to include prior. No.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Edge. Prior information which is. The next.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Coming part so this is the prior used so far for the method. So there will be the usual prior. There are usual priors form. But is. Reversible jump MCMC? Procedure so they are based on network sparsity. Which means that the number of parents with followed truncated question parameter Lambda where Lambda. Follow an inverse gamma. Defined by hyperparameters Alpha and beta. Well, so I put it here. The distributions that I use for certain value of Alpha and beta, which is penalizing edges. So the most probable number of incoming edges. So this is a distribution and the prior for the number of incoming address. So larger probability is for no edges and then decrease until 5. So that usually prior prior which is uninformative. We just want to penalize dimensions so that inferred edges are. Significant I mean. A better model with 101 edge need to be much better than the model without an edge and then for incoming edges. We have an informative priors. So the set of parents given there are there are as parents is uniform. Um? So this is what?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Happen so far and the idea is to include informative priors in terms of the network connectivity. Because if some genes share common properties like some genes of Drosophila are known for being implicated in nervous system development or differentiation between anterior and posterior axis. Word development or Genesis? So genes implicated in the same. Biological process, we can expect them to be connected. Or another example is transcription factors. Some genes are known for being transcription factor, so they are good candidate for activating the transcription on some target genes that we know. So the idea is to cluster genes sharing common properties. So we can define general priors for each specific to each cluster, and then we had another cluster with uninformative priors because for the jeans that we don't want to either we have no information or we don't want to specify an information for these jeans when then we end up with L clusters with specific priors. In terms of number of incoming edges, an Inter cluster.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Connectivity. So here I plotted prior different priors for. The number of incoming edges depending for three different clusters, which is what I applied to. The draws of pillar data and I'll show you results later. So each cluster L. Scott specific hyperparameters Alpha L and beta L. So for I divided the genes Drosophila genes into three clusters. First, crystal target genes is more genes involved in developmental process. The second cluster is jeans. Knowing for being involved in transcription factor activity and their last one. In Forza jeans for which we have no information. So we are looking for transcription factor full target gene. So the number of incoming edges is not penalized too much. Still 0 is higher than one, but it's. Almost equal. On the contrary, for transcription factor. We more looking for the target so we don't really want to have incoming edges, so. The prior 40 incoming edges is very high. Well, this is something that can be discussed because transcription factors can have incoming edges as well. This is just an example. I picked here. Plus this does not prevent transcription factor to have incoming edges anyway. And then for the last cluster and on jeans I just choose to uninformative priors that I. We use pre previously, so that's where the number prior for a number of incoming.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Edges. We can also have priors for interconnectivity. Between cluster, which means so. Jeans. Between two of two clusters, L&M can have content to be very connected. Or on the other country opposite, not connected. I posted an example here with the same precursor, target TF, and unknown. So. This would be the weight for a gene. In the cluster representing transcription factor to be apparent for target genes. Just like the regression matrix A. So this is the parent genes. And sorry this is a target in in the infer network and this is apparent in. So the prior I chose is low. Small weight for jeans in cluster target very high. Wait for drinks in the cluster and for transcription factor an middle. Wait for the jeans with. No specific information, so by specific specifying this weight metric matrix. At each step, when sampling new parents for a target in, for example. This sampling is done. And to do this ways.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Also, it is it would also be possible to add informative priors for change points, like if some position tend to be considered as more probable than others, or we are expecting change point at some position, then we can. Have specific weight for some position. Well, this is possible, but when the game of the procedure which is to detect the change point maybe not necessary and I didn't use it for the trophy, LA also without informative priors we also we already had change points close to the phase transition which may think. So, but this is possible. As well. We have two things to say about this. First thing I can only commonly accepted knowledge is considered as prior information. Informative prior like is included to the method. Um? Because it is changing the results, so it has to be. Sure. Also, it's like if you know that target Gene cannot activate your transcription factor, you can well having. Informative priors is a bit like orienting, reducing the space of possible models without reducing it totally. But we are in favor of some kind of model which we can interpret. And if there are other model which no reason to be, we are not interested in them. So we want to look at the most. Probable models among a certain type of models. So that's how I see it. But you have to keep in mind that bias factor analysis, which is performed less, take priors into account. So if there is a high prior for the number of incoming edges, then the. Significant significance of the ridges will take these priors into account. So the. The posterior probability will have to be even stronger for a gene, for example to be. Parent. Just to say that what we are doing with using informative priors. I guess it is interesting to use both procedure, either with an informative priors so you can see what you get from the data, but you know that gene expression Time series is noisy. As Paul already say this morning and also cannot explain everything, so we can be interested in restricting. Um?

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So some results. And here I will show. The effect. We illustrate the impact of this informative priors on Trophy LA development, so the same.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Data set, but I focused on 14 jeans. The 14 jeans that are implicated in Drosophila development process, which I listed here. So as I said earlier, somehow involved in. Muscle development dear or or affective behavior? I morphogenesis thing like that. And I took their neighbors in the first network that we inferred. Like their targets or their incoming edges? Which is a total of. 36 jeans and then I perform TVDB an inference with informative priors specific to the three clusters. Street following crystals or one for developmental process which I treated us target. Mr. Transcription factor activity is closer to an. Then there are still some genes in the neighbors that are for which we have no information in Gene Ontology. So I just put them in the third cluster which is unknown. So, so the data set the number of genes is now different, so the.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Results slightly differ. Already with uninformative priors, so I computed the analysis again and this is what you get in, so this is as a number. Of inferred target genes. Is divided into Jinx belonging to the developmental process cluster transcription sector activity. An unknown and this is for the parents in Ferd parent genes. So again so distribution. The distribution are very similar now using informative priors. It tend to make genes belonging. That are involved in developmental process to be more. Target genes and genes that are transcription factor activity to be more parenting so. It worked in this case. Most probably be cause edges could be both way. I think it worked because the link is possible if there were no point, no correlation at all. It wouldn't work, but well. Um? So that's for the impact of the method with, which also says that is. We have to be careful with informative prayers because of course analysis have to be performed. Result analysis has to be performed given to.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Priors. So this is the change .4 in Ferd four with these new subset of genes which tend to cluster more or less at the same. Position so phases transition and made angry. Oh, so I plotted the inferred network. I like early embryo and embryo and then meet me. Love amid pupa and meet Edels.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
And so there is a color code, so the. Red nodes are for developmental process and the yellow, sorry, the green nodes are for target transcription. Factor genes and this is a hierarchical. Plotting, which means that genes are tend to be target. Armor in the bottom and jeans. Parents, they are at the top and jeans that are both parents and targets are somewhere in the middle. And so, as you can see. Developmental. Genes implicated in developmental process tends to gather at the bottom of the picture, so this is the the network in Ferd for the early embryo stage. So where these two targets Glassan kill our activated.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Then and the in the second phase of embryo. Other genes here. So. I can't read myself So Jin is an artist. Which is implicated in for good development, and this one is implicated in affective behavior.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Then in the lava. So be this one because it is activated.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
In the pupa stage, then queso. Is.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Activity Dan. Finally in the other stage. So this one which is mini fly which is implicated in germ cell development, is activated and also. I just trying to see. Where is OK? Oh yeah. Meet. This one. Which is which regulated which regulates negatively juvenile hormone. So saying that adult is the end of juvenile phase stage so.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Of a summary. So this new approach allowed to infer time dependent network time varying and allow us to infer simultaneously change points position an ages within phases and also it is possible to. To benefit from biological knowledge if possible, then from this future work would be to test this approach at a larger scale an having clustered implicating in different. Of genes implicated in different. Developmental process so we could say that genes in the cluster muscle are together very connected to the exception of the other. So it would be a bit more complicated. Context.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
So I want to thank my collaborators Michael get in Friday. Can you, for you attention, and here, I'm sorry for my English, I shouldn't have left London. Distance. You could think things. Using a latent variable approach where you may have latent variable schedule schedule factors that induce the diabetic ordinations. Changepoint approach having some unobserved variables which would be for example change. You have a correlation and that. OK, so you mean not changing dimension but just a latent variables that would be 01. Variables that induced the network but. But then. So you you assume that you don't have. Like what makes it wet? Network change is not in the data, so you just want to. OK like it could be external. Will appear it doesn't work that I'm doing things, but can you ask these latent factors that induce formation benefit that? OK, so then it would allow to. Yeah, to have changed points which are not inferred from the correlation, but maybe from something. There might. OK yeah, because it is still limited, but yeah, OK. Question. Change points in the adult. Is that correct? In the Oh yeah known informative yes.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Interesting she has, but I think it's also because the number of genes is lower and there are. If you look at just I notices.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
My health is. There are some little out of the number here, but maybe there are specific target genes implicated in developmental. That's why when focusing on this gene so. So that's yeah. There are little here, but they are implicated in development, so that's good, yeah? I'm pulling up on this stress about the change points. I mean your dynamic business very flexible in that can change points in different phases. It can completely completely different structure. Effectively you learn the structure on the base of other small subset of wonder if the data very sparse. Too much flexibility and resulting into an inference and what it should not be more meaningful to in some prior knowledge that network structure is different. Genes share some commonality's are sort of similar so that you allow for changes in infrastructure, but that's a π over. You would assume that in almost a genius very small, because that looking at your diagrams in the different phases, the network structures did not seem to be. This method also, backbone structures can that not be imposed as additional prior knowledge to have some information sharing between the different segments between the different phases. In people? Great, yeah, that could be. Yeah, included in proposal. Proposed and other people? Yeah, but with having specific weight you restrict you focus on certain genes, but of course you will. Allow for a total change for the network, but what I would say regarding the first part of the question is as we have sparse networks in each gene have. 22 incoming edges, so the total change is not. It's that strong interest change of one or two. It is, you see it like it's no edge, one edge or two edge normal edge, so it's not thinking sparsity to account. It's not such a big change. Also, a change point is for one target gene only. So I don't. I think it's. Yeah, I think it's better known to have specific priors. Because. Yeah, because it's not so loud change. Time for one more question. Speak again.
