So this is the standard supervised learning setting, but we again assume that the labels are provided by K teachers that were going to call them, and some of them are going to be malicious. So with one minus small thing, this is probability over the random is the random process of assigning these examples to the different teachers, then that equal contribution constraint that I just added so I added it constraint for each one of the teachers is only going to be binding for the bad guys, so it's not going to be binding for any of the good things. Then I also encourage you to come in, see or talk on Sunday afternoon which is that cold which deals with a very similar problem. So we, you know we use the Internet or any type of online. There you'd like to analyze these logs to improve the performance of your search engine, but there's you know many people misuse your search engine for their own agenda. The problem is that is that it's not always possible, for instance, in a search engine scenario, you never really ask for the labels. Again, not always possible and requires the truth set, which is sometimes very hard to obtain, and there are other techniques. And they're always going to win. So this is very easy to pass. So essentially the examples that I get from the good teachers are essentially sampled from the original distribution. And the only assumption we make is that the good teachers don't cooperate with the bad guys, which we think is a reasonable assumption, or more precisely, the evil teachers don't get to see. Which examples are labeled by the good teacher? So this is the SVM objective function, right? So for this I need a little bit more notation, so define the set of good examples to remember S is my entire training set right? I don't know this set, so I don't know who's good and who's evil I can. Given by the bad guys and you know we just have the good ID. So you know if you don't accept any of those intuitive explanations, then just accept it as an artifact of our overanalysis here. So W star is kind of what we aspire to. So our goal is to approximate the output to find something that's close to this W star. This is the motivating idea we have, so you know a simple question is how many support vectors does each teacher contribute? So this is how the primal hypothesis in the dual hypothesis are related, and we say that a support vector, you know an example is support vector.