[0.0s - 29.0s]
I found that if you want a website. Social integration website. I went down.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So. It is the seat. So I mean the Germans made during the time frame and so will be 90 in January, started changing. So there's some basis. Today, sister. Job title senior discount You just sound like a dog. Pizza is based on code. Change. As soon as I'm back up, reckless challenges stop job. So I suppose that to read the the Java if you understand the Java then I suppose you could write one in Matlab yourself so. So there's the instructions introduction. So then on the under the. Submit tab. There's actually there was some dates there, so the 26th of March you would need to needed to have submitted your code, so there was three sets of people that submit their code. That's just so that we can verify your results and the 27th. The seeds were distributed, and that's what we have at the start, and so we decided to have 10 seeds and then average the regret over the 10 seeds and then. But you would have to submit those results yourself. I mean, we just have the code so that we can verify anything that you give us. Any of the results you give us a. Correct, or if you're trying to fiddle it, for instance? So, and that those are the seeds here I think the next stage phase two we're going to, I think will publish some sort of a function that will have some seeds in there already, and you'd have to run that function or over your your your algorithms and that would then give us all the nice statistics that we needed, 'cause I didn't really tell anybody to give this to me in a machine readable format, and thankfully there was only three submissions. You know, three people submitting, so I could do it by hand fairly easily, but. If there is any more than that, I think it become intractable. So that's that. Do I just close this down to go back to? That will go back with it.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK so yeah I mean. That's the website I'm I'm looking after that. If you have any problems or anything you know you email me and I'll be the the person responding to emails and any queries problems that you may have. Also, if you are planning to, you know, participate in the challenge. It would be great if you could email me just to let me know that you're interested. It doesn't mean that you're, you know, it's an obligation that you have to submit. Its just so that we have some sort of numbers as to how many people wanting to submit. So here's my email address. It's on the website as well so.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And that's it, really. I mean, does anybody have any questions or anything? Put up a slide. Yeah, that's a good point, yeah? Yeah, I think. Is cold and will go offline. Maybe after last night.
