So one of these goes in the name of forking. Attempts our parallelization stems with shared memory start off in this exact spot, you take a serial code. It turns out Python, or at least C Python, which is the one that everybody uses, has a thing called the global interpreter lock. This interpreter basically can only do one thing at a time. It will not respond to instruction the same time. Of the. Not only is it an old way to do things, it's also platform specific. That's called the mother process with the parent process and then the child process. Here's an example, so you have to call and you don't have to call, so I've got a function here that will be called by the child process, but not apparent, so they're going to process is. Then when I start I'm in the parent process. It's this fork. Wood. They are the child when it's not that return value is actually the PID. You can do some event driven programming with multiprocessing. Forking restricted to Linux, an another little clumsy threads, just not implemented well enough to give you any speed up. For those of you that did the accelerator track, another little rusty on the MPI MPI send from message passing interface and it's a CF API, so you can pull it just functions in C and Fortran and. Your process is and know where they are. Exact depending on your MPI implementation and see how many you want and what notes there on, although usually that's automatic. Now, here's MPI for buy and it's it's a wrapper around the MPI library that it can do all the point to point communications, some collectives. The convenience and conciseness and clarity of Python is present in the MPI four PY interface, and it's quite nice. Things you have to do in MPI revolve around specifying your data types, how many elements you have, setting up buffers, all that. So if I give an array also, they should just send that array. And there's there's a nice to do that so. Sending my rank to the left and getting something from the source to the right. And under specified, a rank was an integer. And something is a little bit up. OK. If you have binary data or compressing your data, it takes computation. At with NUM Py you can you could you don't have to do this in the sense NUM PY arrays are perfectly suited to be sent by MPI. That takes a NUM PY arrays and sends them as it's so you don't have this overhead of having to pickle them. There is a slight downside because now you do have to pre allocate buffers so nothing is for free. And this example computes the area under the curve. This is your gift. We can try a hands-on. And rather than using MPI four PY take the serial version was fairly simple and see if you can use multi processing or Nomex for for the code. As in, see what the what kind of speed up you get, so not remember multiprocessing mates in the process is so you have to do is spawning stuff and then express you should be able to just take the expression whatever it was an I give it to nomics expert an have it compile and spread it for you and so very different approaches that would be nice to see which one would win. So you could you could think of that parameter sweeps. It's a very common framework. You might not care that things are 10 times slower per string comparison. One comes out of the Python stable, so it is Ipython parallel I Python if you might know is a slightly different interface to Python. It's meant to be more interactive and has a whole bunch of nice cities, but it also boils down to being a slightly different dialect from Python then pure Python, which is why I steered away from it here. Anne. You can get away with this, so the workflow then is that the data gets distributed over the workers, or ideally the workers would already have the data. And I bring I bring the work back to it. Will see a few examples of that too. So they're the schedulers that that name makes sense, then the hub. This coordinates and logs that everything so that. Executes are asked for certain work to be done that's given to the schedulers that separates the engine, and they eventually get that work back to the client and then just to make things extra complicated. There's there's some funny stuff that has to happen. You should be on your interactive node. You change the code directory if not there instead of sources set up if you haven't already. Hang there and waiting for work. It's just hanging there. So how do we connect to the cluster where we have to go back, SSH back into bridges? It'll tell you now that all the things that have to be installed are installed, but at least they're not iaccessible type in Python And we're principle sets. We can now connect to the clients in my parallel and get them. It might, it might not even live on the same node. And if it, even if it does, you have to move your data and your code to the engine. Not very nice if you're going to use it. Just make sure that you wait for your children to finish before you kill yourself. I also make sure that you call OS Dot_exit when you exit Ng from the child, otherwise you actually clean up every every possible resource, some of which might still be used by your parents. We can run a script, so remember there's this. Or you can just give it a command you can say. We can do and apply which which we saw takes a function argument, so they get shipped off to the engine, and then there's the map which is, which is a very interesting one to, which takes again a function and then a list, but at least get split up. The map could also have the map is like an open MP static scheduler and the load balancing is I can open MP dynamic scheduler. But what if all the engines have a variable called circles here called X? So to get this back. It's fairly simple, I can just use a few and use it as a dictionary as well. But it also acts as a. So it can hide are asked if you to give me the list of the values of all of them, or I can specify a specific engine and get the value from there. We do our execute or run our Maps and they get sent by the schedulers to the engine's. In some cases it load balances, in other cases, it's not. The Ipython sometimes differed in place from Python. You give it to these guys and they would think because it's called I Python there running Ipython the engines, but the running Python you could have I Python running as the client, but not as the engine. It's Facebook's daily logs of 60 terabytes. It's a Google map index that you wanted to reverse this more than 10 petabytes. Now if you if you imagine the cost of one terabyte disk is about 65, and you can only read that in about 3 hours, decides a little bit old. You would use Hadoop for that and Hadoop in essence is. And on top of that, in like essentially you have some tools to manipulate the data it's native language with Java, but there are some other interfaces. Your data is already distributed to keep it there forever, and whenever you have to do any data processing, the computer will go to the data. Add. What is not so nice, alright, but didn't work very well is that it was stuck with MapReduce. Now you said what we were looking at MapReduce, but sometimes you have met produce results that go in sequence. You never have this one map reduce you. More stuff is kept in memory, and in fact the the default is to keep it in memory until you say save this file. There's other language wrappers available, particular Python. Another nice thing that that. Well, half of them aren't necessary. I'd ever done. So in this case you talk about a driver program and worker programs. Are you so called resilient distributed datasets? Think of them as distributed files. So they won't break. How about threads in Python? This should work if you want to start the setup section, make sure you have this interactive nodes and you've done source setup. This just runs it. I wouldn't call it it's real, it's not an emulation, but it runs it locally on the node, and so in your in your dot local or something, there is a local spark installation Now, which you probably want to remove afterwards, but. So it does that it creates that it created and runs those and now inspired because it's kind of built on Hadoop. You can change this park directory UCI Python interface and run Python pyspark and you'll get this funny different. The reason we're doing I Python is that it automatically loads the spark context. They don't change, so whenever you manipulate the data you get a new RDD back. They're lazily evaluated, so this new RTD doesn't really take any space until you do something with it, and if you discarded afterwards, I never take any file space at all. They can be cashed so you can so you don't have to recompute things, and they can either be data that is just basically in this. Now I think it'll do a pipeline, so you'll create an RDD from some data source. Transformation, so you do something local to each of them and then you reduce it. OK, so you have your RDD so you have read some some data in. Well, there's a couple of things you can do this thing called mapping, which really in this case means each each element in Rd gets a function applied to it, and that gives you a new result. Some of them make it out of doubt and you are ready with the subset you can have. What's called a flat map. You can reduce by key, which is useful if you say want to count the number of times the word whale occurs in the text of Moby Dick. They're not there, they follow the same sort of spawning ideas as four, but if they're still part of the same process, that's why they can still share memory among one one another. Python comes with a fully fledged. Thread mechanism and the threads share the same memory space so they can address space. Well, I mean OK, so some more about spreads, lightweights, simpler to program, share memory.