[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, yes so. Yeah, it's a long title, isn't it? OK, so I'm. This is one of those words presentations. They usually like. Pictures got mostly words. I'll try and keep moving and can you hear me without the thing? I'll just do that. Pardon. Oh OK, so can use this. So I've been interested in long time personally in the nature of the physical world and our understanding of that and how understanding that physical world helps us to understand the digital world. But over recent years.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
There's been a whole raft of work on on embodiment of the nature of our involvement in the physical world, and if you look back to traditional cognitive science and philosophy in traditional has all sorts of ages, so you can vary this. This sort of models you have, or some models where you see something. Think about it, do something and as computer scientists there I own models, pipeline models. And there is a truth to these. These notes are not. They're not sort of false, but perhaps over simplicity. So once the tradition in philosophy and in cognitive science, or gradually challenging those assumptions and certain changes, so hydro, business or classics for probably the start. But of that, and I won't go through all these different things. But there's a couple of terms that have come out of active literature. One of them is going to be thrown us. The idea that you are moment to moment. You're not constantly thinking. What if I do it? You just get on with it. We are imbedded in the world and the hammer is often uses classic example this year. Can you pick up the hammer? You're not thinking, Hammer, move hammer, you're thinking nothing nail. Apart from when something goes wrong and this is another key term breakdown, which is when something goes on the hammer heads a bit weak. You know the male bands something makes you start thinking I'm using a hammer to knock in the nail so I do not usually regarded slightly negatively. Will come back to that later. And also the things I mean. I particularly like Clarks writing because I think I don't hate to be called it, but I think he's in a good British positivist tradition and writes very clearly as if you he wants you to understand it, which is not universally supported, But particularly interesting is there's an issue, a term list that uses the 07 principle that in life we don't bother to story our heads. Things that are out in the world, why bother? To put things in there, when they will read this when you do your jigsaw, you don't look at leases close your eyes workout to do and get on with it. You manipulating pieces in the world, so that's quite clear and be idea of parsimony. In you know it is a cheaper thing to do to use the world rather to use your head. Is also saying the psychology, particularly William Gibson's working as being quite important in HCI? Will you not? William Gibson welcomes other Gibson and. Affordance is one of classical things, but this isn't one of his terms, but also crucial in his work is what often output epistemic action. So affordances about the fact that when you perceive something, you immediately perceive its potential to do things against the other side, though, so perception, IO are intimately linked to actually output, is part of that, But the other side of that is. You don't. So you just see, but if I want to see what's happening so it's likely that there full of my catch my I turn my head and so action is also part of this action. We make actions in order to perceive and said.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Lots of literature. Those various CIM model I always forget when I got there. Then I told you I wasn't at last years websites, but I know there was a paper there on embodyment in in Hector and this is 4 and it's actually including Andy Clark as one of the authors. Don't do this here. On these various tombs be used in this area Inactiveness extended mind people talk about in mind being part of the world and body with some of them fairly obvious. The idea of extending your mind, but we also see our metrics are personal organizers or you know if I want to know what I've written, I go to my web page, one publication based on where I don't remember. I don't go out there, so there's some are fairly obvious. Others. My pastor, Tim embodiment itself is it will be you in bodies and not quite shortly. Send it in said lost his reputation and believe they talked about three major things webs representation at least the paper did searches being inactive and also collective intelligence. One of the interesting things is that in in cognitive science in velocity idea to embodyment things are quite can be quite contentious. In this article we just only so obvious to us that pizza Boxer in the way we don't even perhaps think of it's problematic, but maybe the idea of extending your mind outside is it is a deeply problematic, however, crucially, also, and this is from some other work devs as y'all were controlled by his collected, I'm not. This is not know. Experiments run here, but there's experiments. Then again, people reported two years ago at website on search and you take terms that people. Use they associated something and try and put those in search engines. If you don't have the central term, search engines are really bad at finding things, so if you take it an idea term you take related terms around ones related people wise stick them into web search engines. They don't find the core item. You know it's actually so web search, so as we extend into the web, it's not like just extended memory. It's a different memory. It's an alien intelligence. However, anybody's ever had a personal assistant or has worked with anybody, knows that everybody else is intelligence is alien intelligence, so it's not something we're used to. It is different kind, so it's not.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Simple matter. Sometimes if you get so lost in externalities of things yourself, it's something, and it seems like weird, but people start to even question when there's anything in there. I said I just want to argue that even close your eyes. Think about it right? And that's it, that's a trivial. Is like saying, you know, it's obviously there's something around here, isn't it? So so, there's a little bit there, but let's just assume there is something going on inside the Gray matter as well. Crucial things is not the traditional model was a sort of veritical facsimile of the world sitting in there. You know, it's clearly not like that. No police like that an an awful lot of action is tacit, not explicit. We just do things without really being aware of them. Some of that we can introspect and notice and all three cards are not cheap because even if we know what we need to actually do it without custom external props and certainly not accuracy. But crucially also this passing the arguments both ways. So one senses you don't go. Why bother to store things in here when you can do the jigsaw on on page but equally well turning their heads? Look at you is costly is not so costly here, but if I'm running away from you and your Saber tooth Tiger. If I keep looking over my shoulder I'm dead. I said actually times and pepper. Parsley goes the other way. Again, it looks interesting, so experiment some years ago looked at an user interface with a VCR and instructions. As a simulated VCR, I have variants where it was a Gray box of instructions. You have to explicitly click it to reveal reveal them so there is a cost to find the information for the information on the bottom on the on the screen was accurate and some of the people were also given pre training on the things they have very good model of it. What they found was showing up. Obviously people who knew more this involvement to always click the box. To look at the instruction data on with things. But if you did that wrong it took you long then and people did the trusting in their head more than they should do to the optimal, which is really quite interesting. So actually people, this is like the opposite of the environment actually. People pretending to rely more on in the head while in the world. So some really interesting.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Don't trust them. Who she is. Idea of optimality which underlies so much thinking and a lot of cognitive science is problematic. So you have these two kinds of optimality. One is about evolution and rear developed and optimized. The in our niche, whatever that is. But we certainly isn't 21st century technology. The other side is that drawing like we learn things we've come optimal. That's very core assumption of many things. However, right things tend not to be, it's a policy, it's one. It's very easy to. Slip into all sorts of reasons is perfect and the past determines the future. You can't just magically turn yourself into something different. We see that all the time in the web or the stand idea. You wouldn't choose XML. You choose something else with lots of bathroom, but it became one full source free. Since I mean scratch being kicked out by Jason now. Probably not a bad thing. Also very crucial, very crucial understanding. Webster is self reinforcing structures so that the Peacock is a sexual sort of based selection mechanism which means it runs back and forth in the female Peacocks like male Peacocks and bigger tails. They get bigger than the other ones have bigger compute and it does nobody any good. But it still happens again. This is very easy to see with it went mechanisms. We think collective intelligence could, but it has exactly different story recently. You know you never eats the muscles. Most of nobility, the closed muscles. If you're using muscles, 'cause you taught only, we've learned that there is the ones going to be bad for us. The evidence is the opposite. But they are more likely to be fresh, so sometime in the 50s one country were passing out a bad night that one cookery book said that the clothes muscles were bad for you within five years. Every cookery book said that. And there's no truth to it. Run away just like the people that own the whole sort of things and resource limits of all sorts. Things are environments change too rapidly for us to modify some code. In general, with my hips yellow hat form, if I say if you ever see a perfect design it results were very poor design process. You spent too much time on it. Optimality is wrong. You shouldn't optimize a good offer. Michael crum. Well, really, I love my kids. You can leave the restaurant because I've not talked about. Yeah, yeah. I never really good time. And it's interesting that there's a regress in optimality and where in order to even make the decision advance. Whether you should go on a knot ties more, take your time, takes forever. So I want to do is then just skip.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Lots of things. Ask it to me. Is that too much? Oh well, that I ask it back a little bit. Yeah, so actually no. I will sit. There is a number of things this is actually. OK, there's actually rich interplay. Of course things in your head as things in the web in the way we interact with the world and various things are skip.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Nothing but one of the. Most interesting things I think is this shift from representation to Metra representation. As we instead of knowing things we've completely know about things. However, this is deeply problematic from an educational point of view is that's fine, but our children to not know things know how to find things. However interpretations we build are all things depends are metalloids about what what things mean depends on our company's interactions with them. When we we have lots of lots of different information, we don't build those, so there's some real challenges ahead as we change Maya representation in the head to meta representations. Maximal Ridge it's not clear that that's something that is trivial and certainly not clear that the digital native has those abilities, and there's an awful lot of things that would suggest that's not the case. And again one more extension was a few years ago. This is causing Steve Peyman and repairs and some of their students and graduates. Then I'll I know Alex. So lonely. Looks pages so Google results looks at titles and Google Snippets. And last, how good are people accessing the relevance based on most? Titles were better than snippets. I could send it, send a bit confusing you better words brought together. But what's interesting is you gave people titles and snippets. All your senses saved our ability. We should have more information, so you should do better. And in fact, it was yet where it wasn't worse since this, but it was between titles and sits on their own. So the meta knowledge that experienced searches have understanding and interpreting search results. So I use of the external web's past power resourcing was wrong, sorry. So that use with not optimal, despite them being very experienced, they were unable to realize I've explicitly or tacitly that you should ignore the snippet, or at least use. It's a much modified form despite years of experience, so I'm meta knowledge does not necessarily happen magically. It doesn't. We have to learn it explicitly, so those are doing curriculum, websites, curriculum. How we teach how we modify our tools to try make these things more, there's a whole range of other things like this is quite is not trivial things they will not happen on their own.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
We actually have to do something about it, so I will skip class and so for each time that having said all these things really rich dynamic. But when we deal with webs, not just augmentation, it is radical change for us as old people and everybody here I'm going to come hold an employee through the web. You've learned about the web in your lifetime, people who give up the Internet provider. We've all notice our attention spans drop and that's well documented. People drop it, well, anecdotal evidence not. Think for people who stop using Internet. Site comes back if it's not to read long books for these and stuff. That says for trying growing up is not so obvious that those changes and there's a lot. There's some changes that are temporary, so things like if if you were brought up in a small village and you go to a big town, people get disoriented, purse, but they can adapt. If you don't have languages, small ages stuff the life you never get an abstract thought. In a way I don't get you. The automobile is brilliant right now I have a car lift trying riding car. I use it a lot right but. If you're not working you're putting it on and then you end up having fitness center doesn't maybe a bad thing won't think that this, this good things like that cause the web. Is a superhighway. But that might well mean as long as certain meaning that some medical facilities become. Actually, we may need some fitness Center for the world, or if you want to talk and do and play with things is TeleTech waiting on my I mean a little islands of Scotland? OK, I'll stop there.
