[0.0s - 29.0s]
Glad enough. Well for those of you who know me, you might be surprised that I'm not here to talk about machine translation. I'm actually quite a passionate user machine translation, so you think that I'm here to talk about that, but I have another passion that's translators Without Borders. So if machine translation is my day job translators Without Borders is my is my evening job, so I'm here to talk to you about what we're doing with translators Without Borders. Right now. I hope you find it interesting. I also want to talk about what we're going to do in the future. That's really important to me because you're all in the forefront of translation technology and for us to get to where we want to get to in the future to scale up our activities, we need translation technology.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So let me talk first of all about what we're doing now. Translators Without Borders or credit deal cell phone TL's were known in French was created in 1993. I got the idea when my my translation company, which at the time was called Euro text were now called you Accelera. So when Doctors Without Borders or product also frontier midsole cell phone tier contacted us with the pay translation. I said to them, hold on a second if we don't charge you for this. Can you do something with the money to help your mission in the field? They said, sure, we can. So that started our work with translators Without Borders. Since then, we've saved NGOs. Many millions of years by providing free translations, we translate now about a million words year were translating more than that, but just slightly, and we want to scale up a lot. We want to do 10,000,000 words by next year. We want to start doing 100 million words a year. Then it is absolutely there.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
These are just a few of the engineers we work for planet females which does microcredit, UNICEF, AIDS organization, action, Coca Cola fell. You know them in Haiti's action against hunger, their their ships were all over the television screens. Of course mix and self antea our namesake in our rule of inspiration there wonderful group Ashoke a another great group for supporting initiatives in the developing world. These are some of the NGOs we work for when I talk about the need that we're trying to meet. These NGOs are mostly located in the 11th, only smaller parents were not even covering the NGOs in the whole city of Paris, so there's a huge need out there. I think there's something like 15,000 and wills in the world. We translate for just a handful of them.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
How does translators Without Borders actually help NGOs? We help them in a couple of ways. First of all, we help save their money by translating for free documents that they need translations, whether it's for internal use, training volunteers, press kits that that sort of documentation will normally they would pay for it. So we help save the money that they can put towards the mission and that's something we always ask. Before we take on a translation, will you use the money to extend your work in the field? We also help them in another way though we help them in. Getting the message out. Doctors Without Borders in particular is very, very committed to reporting on something that's going on in the world. So whether it's a famine in Sub Sahara Africa or human rights abuses in Russia for mandate is not only to provide crisis intervention, but to help get the word out on some of these forgotten crises in the world. So when something is going on, Doctors Without Borders will. Get the report out will translate it to shine a light on some of the darkest corners of the world. That's another imp.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Certain part of the work that we do not only to save them money, but to help them in their missions directly. We are mostly working in crisis intervention for the moment because a lot of our NGOs or nongovernmental organizations are involved in crises when 80, when the earthquake hit on January 12th. Unfortunately, that wasn't our first humanitarian crisis. The first few days of the crisis because some of our NGO's, such as Doctors Without Borders, action against hunger, were very, very involved in the rescue efforts. In fact, Doctors Without Borders had 60 people in Haiti before the earthquake, and so there wasn't much time for. Writing reports the documents we translated tended to be short documents like this to just just let the world know what was going on.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
But what Haiti was was a game changer for us and not only galvanized us within the organization of Translators Without Borders, but it also galvanized the translator community. We have been flooded with candidates wanting to work for us the 1st first weeks of the Haiti crisis we were getting 1000 applications a week. The Translators Without Borders is an organization that normally runs on 500 volunteers Max. So with thousand candidates a week was really swelling our ranks. In effect, it's completely overwhelmed us. So, but it showed us that not only do we have the huge unmet need Avengers, but we have the overwhelming support of the translation community, so we want to scale up activities we do in a million words now. And when I say we, I mean the incredibly dedicated volunteers who might do their translations at night after the working day is done when they put the kids to bed there all professional translators. They've all been tested. It's really important for us actually to test the translators. Because some of the work, as I said, is crisis work. It can go out immediately without any edits, so it's very important that the translators be professionals and we also vet our engineers. Of course, to make sure that the work that they're doing is important work, not not politically motivated.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Those are the two things that we've had, so we're doing a million words a year, but we can do a lot more than the need is there. So let me tell you my vision of how we need to get there, because in fact our big bottleneck is not the NGOs. There are so many or even to be honest, even afraid to get the word out, afraid to do any publicity because we'll be inundated. As I said, we're working for a handful of engineers, and they're keeping us busy all the time. We're not bottleneck darlin volunteers that there's hundreds there, literally hundreds of thousands of all of translators in the world, and really, a significant amount want to help? The bottleneck is project management since 1993 and my translation company has been supporting the project management activities, but that's where it blocks up and I started thinking about that when Haiti. Hit. I think of it as hitting, but when the crisis in Haiti really hit home, I thought we have to scale up. So where do we need to scale up? We need to scale up on the project management bottleneck and as I started thinking of solutions for making project management faster, I just all sudden. I realized that we don't really even need to be in this process. I'm not talking about the kinds of needs that a company might have, but for translators Without Borders. I started asking myself what are we doing in this process. We're phoning translators were asking them if they could do the work. We're sending them the work, but translators Without Borders are all professionals. We've reverted them already. So what we want to do is create a worldwide Internet portal so that the translators hoop invented. The engineers have invented can work together so that a job can be posted. The translator can pick it up without us needing to have anything to do with the process except in terms of troubleshooting and. Finding new NGOs to serve. So that's our vision for the future, where we have a very simple process right now with. Posey and they've made us a job, a job portal which is quite exciting, but we can. I think we can make a worldwide portal on the web, where translators and NGOs can come together without native intervention with some absolutely successful self managing communities like facebookkiva.org, Wikipedia, those are all self managing communities and I think that we could do something very, very exciting. So are.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Role is to create a web based portal or translators can interact with the NGOs who need their help. But while we've got that, I want to go a little bit further. Now I want to go a lot further and for this I really need your help. Is Joseph as soon access to marriage is a big issue and I think our translation portal when you can make it easier for volunteers. To work with the NGOs can meet there who need their work and European languages. Can also make it easier to translate knowledge into the languages of the developing world by translators of the developing world.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Because that's one thing that's missing right now is an easy way for people to translate knowledge. Crowdsourcing is a big part of it. In fact, our translations are frequently crowdsourced because they're in such a hurry because the NGOs can't wait, and because the community works together fairly well. So I don't see why we couldn't also open up the platform to developing languages and start developing some of the wonderful educational medical. Set scientific and technical information that's on the web level. The playing field for the developing world. Start making knowledge available for them. This is just an example effect. Thank you. Junior is a relatively small project, but they're basically developing textbooks. So imagine if we could start developing those textbooks into Swahili and Shona, or Vietnamese, and really, really leveling.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Plainfield bridging the information gap between rich and poor countries because information poverty affects 4/5 of the people on this planet. 4/5 of the people in this world, those in the poorest countries, lack the basic access to the information the medical technical cyantific educational nutritional information they need to live healthy and productive lives lives, and this is a translation issue. Since it's a translation issue, that means it's our issue. There's no one else who's going to come forward and solve this problem. It really is up to us as a community.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So translation for the developing world is not in nice to have. It's a must have. Because access to information is one of the most important ways of breaking the cycle of poverty. It does that by bringing educational information, scientific information, best practices. It helps people. Develop new technologies that solve their own local problems, so access to information is not a nice to have. It's absolutely essential that it's a translation issue, so that information is available. We are not going to ask every local language that comes on the net to start re creating their own basis of knowledge. It's it's there so much is there.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Access to knowledge fights hunger. It fights hunger by increasing agricultural needs, opening up economic opportunities. Training people, giving them new new options.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Access to knowledge saves lives. The head of UNICEF said that Jane, his tenure 80% of the children and adults who died, died needlessly. They died of treatable preventable illnesses simply because the knowledge. Of how to treat them wasn't where. And when it was needed.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Unless I be taken for a cultural imperialist. I'm not saying let's find a way to translate our Lang, our knowledge for the developing world and not the other way around, because in fact there's so much local knowledge. I'm not just talking about the richness of human diversity, but I'm also talking about the richness of knowledge in those communities, because there's no way right now that the community. This is a community in Borneo where I spoke last summer. There's no way right now that the inventions that they come up with the solutions that they come up with local community with their remote to their local problems. Can rich people in other communities with the same problems. So not only do we have a lot of scientific and technical knowledge and medical knowledge that that people want and read, but we also have a lot of local knowledge that we want to share in our direction.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
There's a revolution happening. The revolution is Internet connectivity. If we want to change access to knowledge, we need 3 conditions. We need Internet access and that is happening more than you then you then you may know we also need the devices and that is also happening.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
That's part of the revolution. 50% of Africans now have access to cell phones and their cell phones are getting smarter, so they're going to become capable of carrying more and more in.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
For May shun, external devices are coming unless you think well, what is a $700.00 iPod iPad going to do for the developing world? Think of only MP. Threes were first invented, the first came on, they were. They were horribly expensive. Now you can get an MP3 player for six year olds, so I think that what we're going to see is devices that are capable of caring more and more information.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
For less and less money. So if more people coming on line, but right now, what are they going to find there? Just start looking at the amount of knowledge that's available and even even a big language like Swahili, not to mention a smaller language like Shona. There's just pitifully little information and even. People who speak another language still learn better. Children learn better when they can speak their own language, so we need to provide an easy portal to facilitate local experts, local translators, local journalists and scientists, and doctors, and tap into the diaspora. All of the people from the developing world have common doctors have set up practice in London or nurses in Vancouver. We can tap into those people and. Then make a crowdsourcing.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Firemint where they can actually help us translate information for their own communities, the communities that they grew up into. This is a anything wanted. The desire is so strongly there. These are kids doing there. You may have seen this before kids doing their homework by light. Now when I talk about the devices that I hope will be available for 6 to $20, that will contain a lot of knowledge. Those devices also need to take local realities into account. Only one in full in Africa right now has. Access to the electricity grid. So we need technologies that can.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Deal with those realities. Rugged, resisting heat and with their own energy source. I don't know how many of you listen to Ted talks, but quite often at the end of the Ted talk, they have their wish there Ted Talk wish. So this is my translingual risk wish my wish is that those of you who are in the hardware industry. We'll start thinking about developing devices that can be used to transmit knowledge that we can help translate for the developing world. For those of you in the software side of things, I hope you will continue to develop technologies that will help people communicate regardless of what language they speak and where they live. For those of you in academia. I hope you will start training up translators from the developing world. There is a huge body of experts. There will not tapping them. I think we need them to be into this community. I think they need to be better conferences. They need access to our technology and so I asked the academics in this room to participate in that offer. Scholarships and involve them more in your work. For those of you in publishing, my translator wishes that you will make more. Open can't content educational information available. For those of you in websites that you will think about federating multi lingual knowledge. And for translators Without Borders, my wish is that we actually will get our portal. That will help create a self managing community to translate to support NGOs whether they are working in Western Europe or the poorest countries of the world. Thank you very much.
