So this knowledge, this modeling knowledge is captured in so-called libraries of domain knowledge, which are sort of catalogs of entities and processes that we can encounter in the domain of discourse. We know that in population dynamics we will have populations, and it will have processes of growth, mortality, symbiosis, competition and so on and so forth. So this is a quick overview of the hierarchy of processes that are happening in population dynamics. We have populations affecting single processes like growth and mortality. So here we have this for the growth which is apparent. Plus and then as children of this plus we have exponential growth and logistic growth and each of exponential growth and logistic growth specifies the particular form that the equation would take if this type of process is chosen for them for the model. We need to simply write down the entities that will be present in the system and high level processes that they expect it to take place without specifying this in. In detail, and this specification allows for flexible use of the domain knowledge in the library. And finally alternative model formulations which give rise to. And finally when we have the candidate model structures we calibrate the parameters to nonlinear optimization and use the goodness of fit between the measured and simulated values as a part of the search heuristic. And we will then have the alternatives of boxes interacting with peers in a predator prey fashion, in symbiosis or in competition. And Furthermore, if we look for the predator prey interaction, we can have unlimited and limited protection. This process, both measuring tool, takes a library of domain knowledge, is input a task specification and measured data, and then it generates different model structures, fits the model parameters and in the end ranks the candidate models according to the specified criterion. So you saw this example many times learning the Lawrence model would take as input the observed behavior of the dynamic systems. But our method estimation, which turned out to be a very important task besides the gradient descent methods which we used to employ earlier, we are now using actually mostly metaheuristic optimization methods such as differential evolution and colony optimization, and we're also starting to use a multi objective optimization methods which we need for some of the application areas which I will mention later, but parameter. We've started with ecology systems ecology, mostly looking at population dynamics, so that's the reason why some of the examples that appear on the slides from this area. It was not a computer science PhD, she went and systematically looked through the ecological modeling literature very thoroughly and collected a lot of this modeling knowledge published in books and papers. The right for the Venice Lagoon and the bottom one is for the phytoplankton growth in Lake Bloom. They can concern metabolism, signaling or regulation, and the task is to capture the dynamics of the study systems from time course data. Under those arrows, just like under the processes in ecological modeling, there are more specific formulations of the dynamics which are called kinetic rates there and this kinetic race has certain forms such as Michaelis, Menten or Hill kinetics. When reconstructing biological networks, we can go an only try to reconstruct the structure, and there are many approaches which are trying to reconstruct the structure and not the exact dynamics, and they typically work with much larger sets of entities or variables that they try to relate, and on a smaller scale, when looking for smaller networks. So let me very briefly illustrate here on a simple example how modeling knowledge would look for the case of reconstructing metabolic network in metabolic networks. And this is what the induced network structure looks like and this is how the observed and simulated dynamics match, which you can see they match. What is common to both though is the use of models of the dynamics of the circuits and the in silico investigation of the behavior of the circuits. On the next slide, I actually have a real world example from ecology. We have the observed behavior of a dynamic system consisting of two populations of boxes. With these custom design objective functions and multi objective optimization and I will just very. So these three node network topologies. I have the ability to adapt to respond to a change in input, returning to previous steady state after the impulse is gone. It's active and inactive. So in fact you get almost 20,000 model structures. If you try to interconnect them in. So in essence, we want when we have the external stimulus, we want the circuit to respond fast and go as high up as possible. We can use this methodology to design biological circuits with complex behaviors to look for oscillatory behaviors. In fact, as objective functions we use the values of the of the pull of exponents calculated numerically using Wolves approach. These methods can use and to certain extent tradeoff between observed data and domain knowledge, and we have successfully used them in applications in systems, ecology, systems biology, and synthetic biology. By the use of ensembles or super models, so super models actually models that are interconnected to form a single model, and the component models are simulated in parallel, but they exchange information at each step at each time step through the couplings that they have. We will be looking at learning such model ensembles by using these methods that I was just mentioning. A simulated in dependently and it is only the outputs that are that are combined. And then an example supermodel with components and couplings. Finally we will discuss how we could learn from data component model and the coupling seen in a supermodel. A library for process based modeling which would allow us to learn Lawrence type models from data. Now the typical machine learning approach to learning all sorts of models, not necessarily just ordinary differential equations, is to actually search a space of possible model structures. So both structures and parameters and the questions that appear in this context are what is this space? This is the error or degree of fit of the model to the data, but additional factors such as model complexity can be taken into account. For base level, for base level models and it would define the base level models as as compartments. And in this particular model, the supermodel, the two component models are coupled along each of the variables in both directions. We have the different constants. So then when we want to learn super models from data, we could learn the component models, so the input would be an observed behavior of the dynamic system and this library, which here you can barely see. This was the library for describing Lawrence Lawrence models, so the input is the data and the Domain Knowledge Library for Lawrence models. So the input here are the component models and the data, and the output are the coupling coefficients for the supermodel, which I learned in an automated fashion from from the data from. Now most typically this is done by constructing different versions of the training data and then learning a model on each of them. To illustrate what I was saying, given a particular training set, we construct different instances. The interesting thing about this metaheuristic approaches to parameter estimation, is that they can use different cost functions. Now when we want to do Bootstrap sampling from from time series, this is not exactly the same as taking a stationary data set which doesn't depend on time, because when we give the time points to the training algorithm, they need to be with the appropriate order and timestamp. When we calculate the mean squared errors. As I mentioned, each model is simulated separately. I'm almost finished, so I presented in the first part of the lecture machine learning methods for learning models of dynamic systems, and now we have used these to learn individual component models as well as a super models. I'd like to thank you for your attention and then thanks some people that have been working with me in this area for a very long time, and particularly with the Daughter scheme. No one of the distinguishing characteristics of the approaches to learning models of dynamic systems that we have developed in Uganda is that we do not use only data in learning these models, but we try to take as much as possible into account domain knowledge in the area about the system that we try to model so we can use different types of domain knowledge. Which are then treated as building blocks from which we can compose a larger models. So when we have an incompletely specified model to begin with, we're talking about model completion. The first approach is the so called theoretical or knowledge driven modeling approach, where a domain expert that knows the system very well sits down and provides a proper model structure based on his knowledge. The model structure is by and large derived from the knowledge of the expert at the other end of the spectrum we have empirical or data driven modeling, which is a lot based on trial and error where we try different model structures to fit the observed data, and we don't necessarily have a lot of domain knowledge. So for the theoretical approach we actually do need quite a lot of knowledge about the system that we try to model. The advantage of our approaches is that they actually integrate these two approaches, so both the theoretical or knowledge driven and the empirical or data driven approach. So the first is obviously the quantitative aspect. These are the differential equations which have given structure and parameter values and we can use to simulate the. On the other hand, we also have the qualitative aspect which actually explains the structure of the of the model and the underlying system in terms of the processes that are taking place there. So in green we have the growth of the hair population and it happens to be unlimited or exponential growth. Domain, so this qualitative aspect is shown in this next.