Two to the semantic Web audience, right? The field needs to undergo another change, and that's what I called classical KR to contemporary KR. Then you have different sources of expressivity. The default assumption in classical databases is finite models, but then overtime actually these two these two areas. Today you really have what I would call contemporary KR, and it's clear that when you when you consider data. You actually have both cause the tasks that are considered now is really query answering and containment over ontology. What are the things we need to address when when we do logic based knowledge representation in the context of the semantic web so? So first of all you look actually, which are desirable, novel logical features that you want to have and that are not not around yet. Let's just introduce those features now. I mean thrown off track by some undecidability result. With identification of desirable novel logical features, So what could those? They could be semantic assumptions like like we had. So sometimes it can be the case that they can be simulated with features which are already available. It could even be. OK, so how do we? How do we as logicians? You just give a construction and you prove that it's right. So something like everybody who is of Agent has signed some contract is bound to the contract. Then it's good to actually distinguish the different inputs well and then the typical question is can there be generic algorithm for a certain type of problem? And if so, how much time and space resources will it require in the worst case to solve the problem given the size or some other parameter of the input? Is there a match for the query into every model of the knowledge base right? And the other case is actually the tricky ones or how to test that the query is not entailed. And what and the argument would be whenever there's an arbitrary model that doesn't have a match called this a counter model? Too much, but the argument goes via model transformation. Summarizing the purpose of my talk would be OK. Let me just remind a little bit the greater yes WC audience of the virtues and usefulness of logic for the semantic web. I mean also, because that's what I'm most familiar with. So in a way, this talk is self centered, opinionated and subjective, and I'm really looking forward to the discussion at the end. Yes, So what we know is simple conjunctive queries for our are known to be decidable. One of the of the nicer one is the post correspondence problem, so who knows what the post correspondence problem is. So firstly, logicians do not believe anything unless it's formally proven, so you cannot just argue, oh, I've tried and it's not possible because I've tried hard, but that's not a good argument for informal addition. OK, logicians like to use available tools in unforeseen ways, and I'm not sure who knows MacGyver that. You do you just look what's what you have available, what tools and then to to achieve some goal that you wouldn't have thought that are achievable with the means you have and 4th typically logicians are lazy. Right, and so in that case, the solution to the post correspondence problem implies that or. We have a lot of decidability and undecidability proofs in logic based knowledge representation. Yeah, come up with a new genuine proof and there's very few generic principles that actually help you where you can say all this problem or this. This setting falls in this class and I know that's all decidable, so there's there's a few initial results on that, but there's many relevant problems open. As I already said, like for query answering now. So that's the standard approach for dealing with such a situation. Typically, the situations like that, your knowledge base is in RDF graph, which contains the data itself but also contains the ontology. You can say OK, give me all individuals known to be persons. From a sort of a chain, and if you look at any owl QL. So this is how, for instance, generic query looks like that you and Sparkle 1.1 query that gives you all the unsatisfiable classes of an alcohol ontology. But people don't think logically that's just a matter of fact. Harder is to actually find that certain specified knowledge is complete, which means it answers all the questions that you might want to ask. So let's just assume we have this knowledge base. There are birds or bertley experts are not mammals. Up mammals that actually lay eggs. There are tools. We have this problem that I already mentioned earlier on logics or classical logic is very hard. Small sorry, small inconsistency, everything goes bust because everything follows. We have this love explosion and nothing can be done anymore and that's something that needs to be remedied, in particular in the context of the semantic web. So what we need to do is. There's probabilistic logics, which also help a lot. There's inconsistent query answering, which which you find a lot at knowledge representation, conferences, and the other issue is. Or to overcome this modeling bottleneck, enhance capabilities to deal with noisy data. That's one issue and also take into account the knowledge becomes more and more dynamic. Take home messages for the other people will have at least one addition in your group and feed them well. I mean, many people say OK in the beginning there were the logicians, and they brought us our.