For that I really want to thank for addicts for leading the Community for shaping the reality current reality. And I'm really looking forward for his continued leadership in shaping the feature. Such as the one thing I need to talk about here is really, I think, you know, there's a science part of that which really need to help you to improve the classification result, which is, you know, multi task deep learning. If you look at the thing here, you know if you suppose that you do at the end here and you can get a convolutional neural network and you do you know classification for two different tasks here and you know you get a little bit of better quality than your. And you can see here if you use embedding in your in your learning as your you know your input you. With the blue curve right, you just need a fraction of data and you can get the same level of position when you use the embedding trend on independent channel with a large corpus. Really, I think you know the challenge here is about scaling up and demo democratizing, the conversational experience. Right in Cortana we do a little bit thing here. You can also ask you know weather in with something like do I need a jacket today and you can also do the translation here we want to. If you look at the current way we're building Cortana. That's not a scalable way, right? 5 day forecast. In this particular case Boston here so you need to do all of those things with different statistical modeling here. And regarding about dialogue modeling behind Cortana in first generation, basically what we do here is we just manually design the dialogflow with finite state machine and you implement that. But for the second generation here again, here we have a dialogue dialogue fixed dialogue policy. Language understanding is very hard, right? And now a few bottles are saying you know data is the new oil and intelligence is the new power. So what we're doing here is really, I think it to me, the language understanding. One is basically reduce the demand with better modeling technology and the other is you increase supply with unsupervised learning without using offline signals. And what we do here is we want to do query classification and what we do here is basically for a given specific ODP domain we have a. And our full classification and for slot packing here what we did there is basically we also Microsoft has this knowledge base here in the knowledge base you have. Here is basically you said OK, by tagging I can absorb the common patterns and then you can use pattern to improve the way you're attacking and then you include the attacking. And in you know, in speech and language field everyone knows this is gotta EM algorithm right?