[0.0s - 29.0s]
The theme of this symposium is about. Building the breach and breaking the barrier and I.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
As the beneficiary of building the bridge about more than a little bit over 25 years ago, I came to recommend on and the special exchange program for graduate students between sunset on University. And the first time I met Addict. So these are the addicts I met. Hi Ann, I was literally shocked right? I know this guy, it doesn't look like a professor, he's so young. In China, the professor is you're talking about 50 years older plus right. He's so young and he's not much older than me and really is. Is he going to be a good professor for me, right? So I was dealing with a worry. And. Actually, the first I still remember the first topic, Alex, you know, had a conversation with me and he was amazed and he asked me in the really I talking addressing people with old, old and the last thing you said. OK now as a law which means something like older Bible and because in Asia really I think you know people. Seniority means you respect you more. Respectable right? So? And he was shocked at United. You know when I told him, you know, we also address ladies in the same way you said. The old old download. A lot of those on lower right so you can see there's a barrier here, even between very friendly graduate student and his advisor, right? So that's really that. Anna, you know? Um? The Berry, actually, I think is is getting smaller and smaller and if you look at the in China and because it's more westernized, you seldom see people calling people like old. You know in the old way and in as a matter of fact people are calling my wife. Shell tongue, which means little tongue. It's just the opposite, right? So you know you can. You can see really the communication helped bring that to close the gap here. And you know, not after a long time, I realize you, I really picked the wise advisor and he's very smart. He's with that has a lot of vision, and he's a lot of reason, right? And I said, OK, really, I should look upon him and try to catch up with him, right? And you know, I want to be more, as you know, as wise as him and 25 years later, I think you know I'm little bit wiser. And I can see probably there's some wisdom on my doc here decorating my doc here, right? And but you look at 25 years later. Oh This is why more we're seeing here and I said, wow, you know there's no chance for me to catch these guys catch up with these guys and his wisdom is shining. So that's it really. You know, if they can see I grow with interact and I believe our Alex is also grass has also curled within interact really icing what amazing what is amazing for me is the community has been growing and the technology has been growing right. I see yesterday I think Nakamura San showed the very early videos that I see. Awesome day. I was talking to some Japanese friend in different languages. In conversation this is very primitive primitive right? And the comparing 2. The one missing today in Skype conversation. Skype translator. You can see the huge difference, but on the other hand, really. Alex has defined the feature 25 years ago, right? For that I really want to thank for addicts for leading the Community for shaping the reality current reality. And I'm really looking forward for his continued leadership in shaping the feature. And I really like to congratulate congratulate Alex for first for 25th anniversary of. Interact and also for Happy birthday theatrics.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So now I'm going to switch a little bit about topic about what we have done in conversation part and my team in Microsoft is working on Cortana language understanding and dialogue system here. Right in Cortana we do a little bit thing here. For example you can do device control. You can say OK, turn my Bluetooth turned off my Bluetooth. You can also ask you know weather in with something like do I need a jacket today and you can also do the translation here we want to.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And here we have a very, you know, limited conversational system. Here is if you say OK, reminding me of my milk. They ask you what time you want to remind, right? So then you can have a more different dialogue here.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So the challenge really. The challenge here is about. You know I was in, you know, in the first 12 years in Microsoft I was in research. I was doing very interesting things, building prototypes. Really. I think when I move to product Team 5 six years ago, I think the thing we worried here is quite different. Here is really about how do mixing scalable and how we can you know democratises the process of building dialogue system. Microsoft alone cannot build everything really. I think the community. Can we commoditize? The technology such that an average developer can build the experience conversation experience. That's something we're really looking through here. If you look at the current way we're building Cortana. That's not a scalable way, right? So if you look at this, hey, we what we do here is viewed as something we called semantic frame which include domain knowledge domain. OK, you're talking about whether or you're talking about a device control and you also need to do intent in the weather. You are looking for. 5 day forecast. I am looking for temperature for specific location. And then you are also looking for slots symmetric slots in they say OK. Are you talking about weather in in casserole or in butter button or in less? In this particular case Boston here so you need to do all of those things with different statistical modeling here. And for the model training, we collect a lot of data. We label the data manually, so that's you know probably not affordable by regular. You know, give up right here, right?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And regarding about dialogue modeling behind Cortana in first generation, basically what we do here is we just manually design the dialogflow with finite state machine and you implement that. And that's not very scalable. And the second generation, which is in the way of currently powering our system here, is basically we have a high platform which hide the complexity of the dialogue and built the fixed dialogue policy behind that and only the developer only need to specify specify which kind of information you need, and then the dialogue control will define the flow automatically. So that's the second generation. But for the second generation here again, here we have a dialogue dialogue fixed dialogue policy. And sort of generation, which we're working on here is basically Steve has just given isolation on reinforcement learning for for dialogue policy learning, and which is, you know, basically are currently working on.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And I'm going to, probably because of time limit, I will focus more on how we can help user to build language investing system with, you know the science power we have. You know for that I really want to stress, you know, you know why. Language understanding is very hard, right? And Jamie and Alex both pointed out yesterday that ambiguity kills us. If there's no ambiguity is much easier. There's another reason here is basically this is a Power Distribution. Power exists everywhere in language processing, and it says here is basically for the common language construction. You know, you know the head is construction. You can observe that many, many times, but there's a long tail which you don't see very frequently, right? And if you don't see that, and then if you use grammar, you probably won't be able to model that. And if you just statistical model to do that, you have data may not be able to cover that, right? So that's why you need tons of data, and if you don't have enough data, this is what happened here. This is in theory, basically say to call me an ambulance responded from now on I'm going to call you an ambulance. So. So you know this is your blog. You know this is a web log. I'm not saying you know this is our competitors is lousy and actually our system is doing probably not as not as worse as a theory here, right? Really? I think it's a data issue here. If you look at, you know, I think in the Community, if you're old enough in the community, you know there's a saying from Bob Mercer about, you know there's no data like more data. And now a few bottles are saying you know data is the new oil and intelligence is the new power.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So for understanding, you know radio scanning problem for me, I think. Really, the machine learning itself. It's already well packaged, right? I can still young as a student in in Microsoft who is doing something called noise, which is high. The plasticity of the statistical machine learning, but the really I think the problem that didn't get addressed there is about data. Why? Where do you get the data? So what we're doing here is really, I think it to me, the language understanding. Skype screening problem is a supply and demand and supply problem of the labeled data, and for those basically you can tackle that problem from 2 ends. One is basically reduce the demand with better modeling technology and the other is you increase supply with unsupervised learning without using offline signals.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So here I'm talking about a little bit about you know how do we increase this?

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Right here. One thing we did there is basically there's a probably people here knows about ODP right? ODB is a taxonomy of. Of domains and in each taxonomy is associated with with a bunch of. The web page is right. This is more like technology of the web page we just done by the Community with open source community. And what we do here is we want to do query classification and what we do here is basically for a given specific ODP domain we have a. Different websites associated with this ODP domain and you can also use a click signal from Bing query and you can associate your query with this particular entity and from that you can get the week supervision on the data. And our full classification and for slot packing here what we did there is basically we also Microsoft has this knowledge base here in the knowledge base you have. You know entity names with different type of entities and you can do a very naive way of exact match. So yeah, you know I've seen this is Brad Pitt in this particular query and Brad Pitt. You know according to my. Knowledge base, he's a movie star, right? And you know because of language is ambiguous and you are going to do be very poor. Did you know if we just do this simple, very naive way of tagging? But we have the power of the learning. Here is basically you said OK, by tagging I can absorb the common patterns and then you can use pattern to improve the way you're attacking and then you include the attacking. You get improved pattern and you do this iteratively. And in you know, in speech and language field everyone knows this is gotta EM algorithm right? And what we do there is basically also initialize EM algorithm with his argument with the algorithm behind the the. The page ranking.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And you know, once you build those data then you need to have a very nice tool. For browsing and.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Such as the one thing I need to talk about here is really, I think, you know, there's a science part of that which really need to help you to improve the classification result, which is, you know, multi task deep learning. If you look at the thing here, you know if you suppose that you do at the end here and you can get a convolutional neural network and you do you know classification for two different tasks here and you know you get a little bit of better quality than your. Standard SVM here.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
But on the other hand, if you say OK, how about I share the top level representation right? In that case, one classifying one classification task becomes a regularizer for the other task, and then your top hidden there, the hidden hidden three tries to capture more. Pass independent semantic information. If you do that more here. Basically, you regularize better, right? You come up with bedding bedding of the query. And in addition, you can also do try to do click prediction so you can have in reading for the query at hidden three. You can also try embedding at the for the documents particular document and you try to minimize the distance with something called DSM model right? And basically you have further information to help you to regularize your learning of the. Of the embedding. And you can have a multi task. For example you have a web click you have also adds vertical right and if this can also help you to do that since you know to transfer you or what you have learned, cross lingual. So suppose you have a parallel data corpus. You have a Japanese Corporation in you query cops and which Click to the similar pages and you can even do that. You know try to learn the embedding for English query and. Such that the similar queries in each in. Anne. In Japanese, it will have the same similar. Bedding as a similar query in English so.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
If you look at this here, what you can see here, we have a significant improvement, right? As I said, you know, if we don't do more turn multitasking, we have a similar result as a SVM. But here we have seen significant improvement on our numbers here. So how much time do I have? OK.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So I will skip dinner. The other part basically, we also done a lot of learning here.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Roughly here, whatever the concrete here is, if you look at the left hand diagram here. Can you know? Notice that the X axis here is in log log scale. And you can see here if you use embedding in your in your learning as your you know your input you. You can significantly reduce the data requirement at the same position level, right? And comparing the black curve with with with. With the blue curve right, you just need a fraction of data and you can get the same level of position when you use the embedding trend on independent channel with a large corpus. If you know so, that's.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And you know that is not good enough.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So that's why we are also looking into this multi task sequence learning part and I'm going to skip that. So.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
In summary here. Really, I think you know the challenge here is about scaling up and demo democratizing, the conversational experience. And the key issue here is demand and supply of the data problem. And how do you know I talked about? How do we reduce the demand and improve the supply increases by? Thank you.
