If not expressing currently kernels and kernel felt. Positive definite kernels for graphs. This is the so they were most graph kernels that work nowadays are called walk kernels. I present a few extensions to make them work in practical applications because we see that the basic definitions often does not do not give very good results. It's called the kernel trick. It has been used a lot in kernel methods, inspector machines, which is to say that there is a class and a class of many algorithms that don't need to have the explicit representation of patterns of objects of graphs as vectors cause. Suppose you have graphs which I call X that you represent as feature vectors. Fire fix. Then what we call the Colonel in this talk is simply the inner product between the images of two graphs. Algorithms that instead that do not explicitly where the fire this, but instead require the kernel. Of course of the algorithm. Then you might have some some advantage in terms of memory storage cause instead of representing. So this is a definition cannot is called positive definite. Is pragmatism number. An account of K is positive definite given the previous definition if and only if there exists some space inner product space and a mapping from your original space to this space such that the kernel K is equal to the inner product after mappings of the points. I mean this is an inner product space Hilbert space. But this could be infinite dimensional, so you want to define a positive definite functions over the set of graphs. The problem we have is we want to design general tools to solve problems of regression or pattern recognition, supervised classification of other set of graphs. First, we might be able to consider a large number of potential features who are not limited by the number of features we want to use. Because you know that solving the graph isomorphism problem is difficult. So obviously the computing any complete graph kernel is at least as hard as solving the. Rough isomorphism problem, which means it's difficult. Therefore you know that computing the kernel, computing a graph complete graph kernel cannot be done in polynomial time for the moment. So this is a graph, and this is the list of subgraphs here. You have a subgraph of G that is unfit to edge. Suppose you consider PN the path graph. OK, So what are the subgraphs of the linear graph with N vertices? An right that EPN itself is a linear combination of the file of peas. So this problem is simply to say if you have a graph, can you find a path that goes through all vertices of your graph exactly once? OK, so if you are able to say if you have a graph with N vertices, if you have if you are able to say whether the path the path graph of XN is a subgraph or not, then you have solved Hamilton problem. And then you compute the sum. OK, and you could say given given a graph, I will extract all in our sub graphs. So this is the exhaustive list of linear subgraphs of this graph. We want to predict properties of these molecules, and there are many properties we would like to be able to predict typical properties. So the goal idea in many applications is to. So before developing a new drugs who let you know in an ideal world to be able to design in silico molecule by first predicting if the molecule be toxic. We have more and more experimental data about toxic molecules or active molecules or molecules that are well with good pharmacokinetic properties, so more and more we want to develop statistical models that, given a set of molecules with known properties, can find a function to relate the structure of the molecule. Let's go to summary, so I cannot make any complete graph kernel. You cannot even compute the path kernel. No extracting path and computer is not possible in practice. They said that work is simply a set of vertices. So if you have a graph here at work, is a set of adjustment vertices. Turns out that now you could say well, instead of extracting the path, I can extract the walks so you start from a graph. The graph by the set of 5S of G where phase of G is the number of times there is a work isomorphy 22S. Simply the kernel obtained when you extract the walks of length. Which means that in my formalism I will put await Lambda G of WW is a candidate linear path that would be a work. Well, one possibility is to put a weight toward corresponding to its probability, and there are some random walk on the graph. You can design a random walk model this random walk that you kill at some points. And you can use it as a weighting scheme and therefore if you apply this weighting scheme to to do some reason, you attend a graph kernel, that would be the sum of a possible walks of number of times it occurs in each graph, weighted by its probability. See an another one which is also famous and that ensures convergence of the process instead of having a random walk model to have some weight that only depends on the length of the walk. So these are the. So what's interesting and the reason why there are uses that these three kernels and many other kernels based on walks can be computed in polynomial time. OK, so first I remind you the definition of product graph when you have two graphs G1 and G2 labeled graph, you can make a graph G 1 * G Two where the vertices are made of pairs of vertices with the same labels and what you put in edge when you have an edge between the two corresponding vertices in the original graphs, classical definition of graph kernel. The set of works of pairs of works with the same label. And if you have some additional Lambda then you can include it here. So this means that you need to count with some algebra you can see that I said the end product is obtained when you take Lambda G1 of W is equal to 1, fourth or fifth. Ann is the is the length of the of the work, so consider because you want A to the end. I will I will skip the details, but the other ones can be completed two. So I need to make the sum of other works of the product graph weighted by something, and you can check that in both cases the weights corresponding to a walk. In chemistry fun, since there is something well known called the Morgan Index, which is to say this is iterative. You speed up a lot of computation because you will have less matches, so the smaller product graph. Not count this one in the in the kernel becausw somehow it just add noise now compared to the path. You could say, well, suppose you have the the random walk model is a first order Markov random walk, so if you just apply the 1st order Markov random walk, you cannot remember where you came from. He handled and if you walk down the equations you obtain once again, you can compute the thing, but with some factorization of the other thing, the idea being to say that you can compute if you call T or V and the number of trees rooted at V with depth, you have a simple relationship between this number and the number of trees will see that the neighbors of your of your vertex of interest of depth of minus one. So you have an inverse one, so using this worker shown you can compute. If you're here at zero, this column correspond to the performance of the linear 2D kernel. OK, on the classical kernel is here, and when you go to the right. You jump from some performance. You have 14 classes, each class contain 100 pictures. So they did the preprocessing to segment 8 each feature into homogeneous zone. And we'll talk about the later one, but you can still improve the performance by optimizing the weightings of different combinations, because I didn't talk about that. We have a set of graphs I will call the graphs X, XI, so we have a set of X1 X 2X N graphs. I will call them Y1Y2Y N. This could be discrete or continuous depending on what you want to do. I will not make a big difference. Basically, this is what we are able to do. A common question is how to choose the best care knowledge. There is a well know how to optimally combine kernels, how to select channels. There are some attempts, it's a hot topic in machine learning. So this is a there is a trend you know to spend less time on this, any specific kernels but more time on saying we take all possible kernels and then we design algorithm that can work with many kernels. So it's still a is still not very satisfactory what we have, but this is a general trend. Common methods in general and graph kernels in particular are expensive. One idea is to say that we start from a graph which is not obvious to handle in order when you want to do the square regression, you don't know how to do the square regression and graphs, but wanted to say I will first represent my graph by your vector, and to do that I need to find a mapping from a graph to a vector of fixed dimension by extracting features. It has to be put in the features. For instance, if you want to use this feature representation for patterning conditional regression, you would like the features somehow to be relevant for the prediction task. One approach would be to say, well, let's take as many features as we can.