So really, just to motivate multitask learning, we can get and they can be multi task problems that occur in all sorts of places. Of course, in machine learning problems we might have multiple tasks, such as like multiple object categories. So fundamentally and also this robot inverse dynamics, which will actually talk about later. The EM tasks and if we consider the elf task will have FL, which is the function value of XI on task L. Really all we have to do to extend the previous framework before we had to say for any X&X prime, what's the covariance function for those two? Multitell Scouting Process is the so called intrinsic correlation model. This is an M by N matrix. Now it's also worth saying one way to get this matrix is that if we might have things which are kind of like tasks descriptors OK, we might have some features that describe a task, and we can actually compute this. Very similar to the semiparametric latent factor model of tea towel. Different structures how we might get to multitask. So as an outline, will talk about first about Gaussian process prediction. I'll talk about one particular model that we can use for Coke region called the intrinsic correlation model. Those are some nice theory which my student camming has done on about theory for this intrinsic correlation model we talk about briefly and I also want to talk about the example of multi task learning in robot inverse dynamics which I think was meant to be a good fit between this workshop was it actually has robotics and multi task. Clusters and that actually can be interesting implemented in the ICM model, basically by. And this also is something that can be traced back. Basically, the idea is that we have some kind of feature extraction we can think about this hidden layer having done feature extraction on the inputs and then based on those features, these outputs are basically combining them in different amounts. Of course in this case this is a supervised feature extraction remote where motivating it by the fact we want to actually extract features such that they're good, helping us predict the outputs. Pointed out that basically if we have multiple tasks, then we actually can jointly optimize over these hyperparameters and we want to do that so as to extract these features. I've drawn there a fairly complex example with nonlinear transformations, but basically we could also have something simpler with, so just linear transformations of the input into some, maybe some reduced space, and that pregnant or something I worked on with my student Francesco Vivarelli back in that. So not all processors are exactly the same kernel that somehow related kernel, so of course you know kind of hierarchical modeling framework. And certainly this wouldn't keep mathematicians happy, but we think of a function is essentially an infinitely long vector, and then you want to define a Gaussian distribution with being collection of random variables and any finite subset will have a consistent Gaussian distribution. This will define the Gaussian process. So that that basically defines the correlation between the tasks and then the other thing that we can have is basically the amount of data that we have in the primary task and in the secondary task. What we then want to do, of course, is the average over that over the density. The kind of quotes that we might be interested in in terms of more theoretical characterizations is the learning curve. OK, so in this kind of setup, what we're imagining is that we draw some locations. We have a lower bound on the generalization error with covariance row. This is actually is actually quite tight and so coming is done. OK, so then to relate this to robot inverse dynamics. Robot with a number of joint angles Q and basically what we want to do is we want to in this setup. The frictions there are joint elasticity. OK, so it's not entirely. Particularly in things like compliant, lightweight, humanoid robots. So yeah, there's just saying the functions change if we have different loads on the end that that that happens and. We need a different inverse dynamics model for different loads, and the other thing is of course if I pick up a heavy load, wave it around it may actually. But there is also some good news and basically certainly in the case we just varying the mass on the end effector. But they're also depending linearly on these parameters, Pi OK? Are we getting data from we're actually using robot ball using realistic simulator? The Puma 560 robot arm? We can drive this arm along different trajectories using figure of eight trajectories at different speeds, so therefore different paths. Dealing with infinitely long vectors that all functions the whole time is the marginalization property of a Gaussian. We've got N training examples we can be interested in the function values at those corresponding to those axes. So basically this comes out of reference trajectory. And then what's happening is that we actually have one trajectory in which we have no data, and that's always novel. So you saw here that there's one reference trajectory and 14 unique trajectories. This is the size of the amount of training data we have. That's actually the total number of points across all tasks, and this is the mean average normalized mean squared error. The pool GP and the multi tenant GP basically see this kind of structure so the multi task one is the line black. The paired difference between the best. Basically what I've tried to tell you about is the multitask formulation of Gaussian processes and the kind of cokriging framework. And we've seen how we can try to construct things that have cross covariances and how to use those. The intrinsic correlation model that simple one factorizes between task similarity and X space similarity. To this squared exponential kernel, it's about as different as you could actually have, while still being a Gaussian process, for example the. Just to say one other thing, the marginal likelihood is basically by working at the probability of the log problem. The data under this model, and of course this is a Gaussian. We can essentially give different interpretations of the data and some of the most.