So CCA is a well known technique, flow statistics. So one popular use of CCS for supervised learning. The science of the matrix depends on the number of objects, and it's no. So let's one imitation. We try to address this issue by connecting CCA to linear regression. Then in this case, we can show CCA is equivalent to University linear regression. So there are several advantage of using linear regression. First, it can be solved efficiently using CG algorithm. So before I show this connection, I will give some notation and definitions. CXX and this matrix RCH&CD and all the key fact we use actual here is this edge matrix is also normal over the colors. And then based on our previous discussion, optimal projection, since it consists of the top vector of this matrix SXL inverse. If N -- 1 then we can actually show all the diagonal elements of Sigma. Wonder if we can do an efficient cloth validation by computing the entire solution path of CCA using this angle regression algorithm loss. We use two types of data. Then we have the square formation of CCA based on risk equivalent result, and we have at least 291 extension based on this list wax formulation. 2000 something on the data set and we get a bunch of data set where the dimension of the data set is larger than the sample size, and in this case we are observing in all the cases. In this case, when somebody holds all the diagonal elements equal 1. We establish the equivalence connection between CCA and multivariate linear regression in a general case. And the interesting for this case, the sparsity model achieve the best performance in this experiment. But this is not the case in the other data set. The sample size is much larger than dimension, and there's a dependence in a data set. The last two column they correspond to the CC model with two reorganization. And the one difference case follow Jim data set. Learn the other model for the biological image data set. So one of the advantage of this formulation for CC. We also derive entire CC solution path. One is vector withdrawal occur for all entries. Then all entries non zero and we decrease the value. So after if very lesson 3.2 only one or two entries non 0 so we can vary the sparseness of the model by changing the parameter. Are equivalent connection between CC and linear regression an under mild condition which require all the samples are linearly independent? Well, assumption is hold leads to equipment and our results also show on these two assumptions valid. So essentially whatever we can do for linear regression, we can apply to this model based on the equivalence connection. Square. So instead we deal with the two different representation of the same set of objects XY. And in CSE we try to do projection on both XY the same number of projection vectors an in CC we try to compute projection so that their correlation is maximized. So equivalently, Lisa maximization can be solved by solving the following. Anne, it's known if white Times Y transpose this part the covariance for why is nonsingular learn projection in X can be computed by solving the following value problem. So in multivariate linear regression will give a training set XITI will edit Point XI, import TSV output and here T is dimension. In case one is University and here we deal with the case K is larger than one. So it's multivariate linear regression and here we assume both XY centered 0 mean. So double transpose excise prediction based on linear regression model and T is the true target and we try to minimize the approximation error. So there are several ways to define T1. So he's talking to matrix Eva. Datapoint XJ contain the ice class label that is 1 otherwise 0. So we call this a class indicator matrix. So from our previous slide, the solution to this square really depends on the choice of class in econometrics. The opium projection matrix WCCC consists of a topic vector of this matrix, here, soon inverse. While in multivariate linear regression the optimal weight vector W is given by this form. Tis the target matrix.