[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello, my name is Alia Shantalla and I'm young researcher at Advanced Materials Department. The field of my research is the synthesis of nanoparticles and today I will tell you something about controlling the shape of nanoparticles.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the house is made of bricks stacked next to each other. And the bricks we can call building units similarly also the each normal particle is. Composed of building units and we can we call them unit cells. Currently I'm dedicated to the synthesis of Abo three parasites. The strontium and barium titanate. The unit cells cell is shown in the picture, so the green atoms, strontium or barium are in the corners of the cube. Blue Atom the titanium in is in the center of the cube and oxygen atoms are in the centers of the cubes faces. It can occur occur that the the structure deformed. For example, if the titanium Atom moves up, the structure can. Deforme to block. And this causes that the center of the positive and negative charge are not or no longer in the same place, which causes the polarization, and this causes a special properties of the material.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Sophie's electric materials can produce the electric for polarization. Due to the pressure or vibrations. And therefore so they can convert the mechanical energy to the electrical and they can be used in a many applications.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So as you can see on the picture, a parasite structure is. Cube shape therefore also the nature, prefers the growth of nanoparticles in cubic shape. So how can we do? What can we do to produce nanoparticles in the plates in the plate like shape? And now in the cube like shape, like the nature wants? The idea is to trigger nature by using a template.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So in the first step we prepare nanoparticles that stands to grow in a plate like shape and has similar structure as our target material. Then in the second step we convert this template material particles into target material under high pressure and at certain conditions we observe the plate like strontium titanite nanoplates. So this number plates could be further use for, for example, for the growth of other parasites as barium titanite at it is expected that the polarization and also electric properties of as prepared material will enhance, and so Can you imagine, for example, how great would it be if you play such material in your shoes and vibrations produced by walking will generate enough voltage to. Um? To warm your winter shoes or to power a heart pacemaker. So if you want to know more about the control of the shape of nanoparticle spirit, please come and visit me at poster number 42. And thank you for your attention.
