Enjoy joint work with Ari Weinstein and Michael Wittmann like Michael Littman at Rutgers University. The best thing we've learned how to do is flatten the structures into a big big MDP and then compute the Bellman equation and go from there. So the idea is basically large volumes and few samples you don't know a lot about that you want to explore that volume of the space and small volumes. We can do the same thing that we did with UCT and put that Banner algorithm in the tree and then do the UCT algorithm with just The Who in the tree instead of the UCB algorithm. So this is a double integrator domain. Let's say around the action. I don't care about that one right now, so and then we extend it to number of action dimensions. My Co author is working on an idea to basically optimize the end step sequence of actions using who directly not going through the UCT tree, and that's working out very well for him. So if you have a distance metric for your action space and your value function is locally smooth. Solving the bellman equation with this Max operator. If they have maybe continuous action spaces. That gives you some guarantees on not being able to not needing to enumerate all of the states in your MVP and still be able to get epsilon optimal value functions out and be able to plan optimally like that, and the number of samples that you have to generate from these transition and reward functions is sort of independent of the size of the state space, so if you have a very very big state space. Wells from these transition rewards and the idea is can we use ideas from exploration, exploitation problems to better the director search? This algorithm, UCB for the simplest explanation and simplest idea of exploration exploration in the bandit case where there's only one state and you have K actions and you want to pick the best action. As you increase the number of arms in the regret bound, the number of arms matters, but the assumption is that the number of arms you have versus how long of time frame. So we know that using UCB we can kind of extend this to the sequential decision making task by building it into a tree and having a UCB node at each node in the tree. So now, like I said, UCB algorithm is restricted to discrete action spaces. And it's called hierarchical optimistic optimization, and who algorithm is basically generalizes the UCB algorithm to well behaved continuous bandit problems and the well behaved. There's some technical conditions if you're really interested, but it's pretty normal in physical systems.