For many languages, so it seems practical to stick with it. So the word is the unit that enters syntactic relations, and word has some morphological properties and so on, but. Annotation style on new data as well. When designing the guidelines, we always think about the main goal that we had, so we don't want the same thing to be annotated in different ways and vice versa. Traditional grammars differ. As for the part of speech tags we have. Part of speech tags are really just. They don't necessarily have to use all of the text, they don't have some of those categories, but if they want to extend it, they should choose one of the tags and then. So these blue relations are between the content words and this is the backbone of the tree, while function words are only attached to the content words to which they sort of belong, or which they modify. We have a taxonomy of currently 40 universal grammatical relations. Learn your language. We are not doing Multiword expression annotation in UD, so that would be a separate layer above. And finally, a couple of words about the word segmentation. As I said, we want it to be reproducible on new data, so we always want the Surface token to appear there. An in Vietnamese there are spaces, but they don't separate words, but rather just monosyllabic morphemes. Growing number of languages and three banks. This slide one huge line of use is for linguistic research. Uscaa line of use cases as training various tools in NLP, natural language processing, the two main tool is parser for syntax obviously, but you can use it in downstream applications and intern actually using linguistically such as well because it can parse for you new data and you can look in. But that's only a fraction of what can go wrong, so we are trying to put together groups. There is this category of the terminals which is. Not necessarily in German, although it could be about traditionally German calls. Nevertheless, we do have pronominal adjectives or adjectival pronouns. The question is how should we use it if we don't have the distinction traditionally in our languages and that's. And in Eudy there in the first version of guidelines there was a purely functional definition that if it modifies a noun phrase like this car is expensive, and then this is determiner if it replaces now phrase like this is. While it is the case in the here with determiners and pronouns, so this will be less strict in UD version 2. Touch on is quantified, noun phrases counted nouns. And the same actually holds for pronominal quantifiers like colleague. Another issue which again touches more on morphology is about verb forms an. One of them I mentioned already. There are conflicting national terminologies or traditional terminologies and 2nd. Source of actually the past tense. You can use it for conditional mood and you can even use it for future tense so. But for the participles, you can just say it's participle you could. In check, we usually call this active participle or past tense. An active participle for them is something else. Telling that someone has done something. So they want to distinguish the two forms, and so on, and slavick widen the literature. So the language typology usual distinguishes these two three functions, subject of intransitive verb, an agent of transitive verb and patient or direct object of transitive verb, where the roles can be switched. The book will have different analysis. Then he gave the book to John. One of them being still normal, direct or indirect object. But then there are those inherently reflexive verbs like smart, say, meaning love in English where there's no syntactic functions at all for reflexive. And these have been analyzed very differently in the various levitti banks, and it's still the case I originally proposed that it should be a compound. There is a separate label for reflexive passive, an impersonal construction which I would say could be encompassed in an passive, but not necessarily. Modal verbs in English are considered to be auxiliary's with all the consequences like they get the ox part of speech tag and they get the ox relation. Probably it's here that there is no good reason to treat the modal verbs in check as auxiliaries. It actually makes makes much more sense because they have very. Some people would say adverb Russian grammar says something like predicative without telling whether it's a adverb or something else. At least had a great jump start and it's growing, but still a lot more work to do, especially in the area of consistency checking. There is an issue with call cleared like Google Universal Dependency Treebanks which were innocence extension of the Stanford to dependencies. Then in turn as a response, the Stanford team developed new version which they called Stanford University Dependencies. So the goals the main goal is clear, I guess, so you won't cross linguistically consistent grammatical annotation that would be applicable to. Preferably all languages. There have been already evaluations of you data, but that was not our main goal, but we wanted for parcels to be be able to evaluate them cross linguistically. It is just a lingua franca so that we understand.