[0.0s - 29.0s]
So thanks for having me. It's a great pleasure to be here and actually have a talk. And the banana, which for me among others, has always been connected to the mall. Text East Project as one of the really successful multilingual endeavors. And.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Today I'm going to talk mainly about dependency tree banks so syntactically annotated corpora which may look like this or.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Slightly different visualization like this. I'm not going to spend.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Spend much time by motivating why we should use three banks. I believe most of you in the audience know it, so just. This slide one huge line of use is for linguistic research. Obviously you can search corpora online and look for interesting patterns in language and then the other large. Uscaa line of use cases as training various tools in NLP, natural language processing, the two main tool is parser for syntax obviously, but you can use it in downstream applications and intern actually using linguistically such as well because it can parse for you new data and you can look in.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
What I am going to motivate a little bit more is the particulare three banking project that we call universal dependencies. And for that let's consider this. Diagram with. Three different structures for three sentences. Invisible for the moment, so you just see that there is the same number of nodes. Probably works in the sentences and the structures are pretty different from each other, so there is if you compare structures one and two. There is just one dependency or relation in common. When you compare one and three there are two shared relations and there is absolutely nothing in common between 2:00 and 3:00. So this doesn't look like the sentences should be very close to each other, but you may become suspicious when I show you the part of speech tags for the individual words. These are exactly the same sequences of part of speech text for all three. All three structures, and while it is obviously possible that the same sequence of parts of speech could have different readings, it doesn't seem so likely that it would be so much different.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And if you were suspicious about that, you were right, because these are three sentences in three different languages with exactly the same meaning. My daughter, both some bread and cheese in English, Danish and Swedish. But the structures are different, not becausw. There would be different reading of it or or because the languages were different, but it's just becausw. There are different decisions taken in the annotation schemes used in the three different treebanks, so it just happens that the first structure is 1 particular conversion from the Penn treebank to dependencies. The second one is, according to the guidelines of Danish dependency Treebank and the third one is. To bank in the Swedish tree bank. So actually, if you remember Danish and Swedish two and three have nothing in common, but still these two languages should really be very close to each other, so this is a problem. It has been a problem for many years already. We have many three banks in different languages. We would like to be able to compare them to do any cross lingual studies or to evaluate parsers. That can be trained on different languages, but we can't really compare anything because this is not comparable. So. And this problem is growing because we are getting new data for new languages.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And often they also have their own annotation styles, so people have been aware of this problem for quite some time now.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
There have been initiated trying to remedy this. I should start with Stanford Dependencies, which itself originally was not meant as anything internationally applicable to our languages, but became a defecto standard becausw many teams for different languages decided to adapt it for their languages. There is an issue with call cleared like Google Universal Dependency Treebanks which were innocence extension of the Stanford to dependencies. Then in turn as a response, the Stanford team developed new version which they called Stanford University Dependencies. Independently of that we in Prague had this Hamlet initiative where we tried to put together over 30 three banks but we used approx style. Alpha notation from Prague Dependency Treebank we use The Intercept framework for morphological text sets in the data while the others used Google Universal Text. So as you can see, we now really have quite a few attempts to get one standard for many languages. The only problem is that those standards are not mutually compatible between each other so. We could say, as ND Tannenbaum is quoted, that the nice thing about standards is that there are so many to choose from, but it's probably not going to help us here. So finally, some two years ago. Most of the people behind these initiatives got together and we try to come up with something that would be acceptable for all of us and hopefully for others as well, and so that we have just one thing that will incorporate all the others and that's called universal.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
NCS. Just to give you a very brief history of this, this really young project, just two years 2 1/2 years ago we had a kickoff meeting and you to work. Then in the fall 2014 we had the first version of the guidelines for annotation and the next theory started releasing treebanks converted to. Those guidelines so. And we opted for frequent releases, so it's really growing. We started with 10 languages and we now have 40 and we decided that it's probably the time is ripe to. Revise the guidelines somehow. So version two guidelines will probably be available next year. But so that's the overview. Now I'm.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Going to give you a brief tour of universal dependencies so that you see what's inside. That will be roughly the first half of my talk, and in the second half I will switch to specific issues that are in Fountain Slavic languages and more relevant to us. So the goals the main goal is clear, I guess, so you won't cross linguistically consistent grammatical annotation that would be applicable to. Preferably all languages. Because we want to support multilingual linguistic research and evaluation of multilingual NLP applications. And one important thing is that we are rather working. Bottom up. We want to reuse pieces of code or formats that people already like to use and only extend them where we think it's necessary. So this is not standardization in the sense of ISO or similar organizations, because we want to use defectors tendance. And that's just the decision that we hope will help us to make this popular and really used. Uh. What we are not, we are not, and you linguistic theory. We are not going to replace anything we hope to be linguistically acceptable, plausible, and we also hope that what we develop will be possible to transform to whatever thiery people prefer so that they can have their own. Representation, but again they will just have to transform one representation. They will not have to learn all the different standards for each treebank. We are also not claiming that universal dependencies is the best representation for training parsers. It turns out that it's not so bad for parcels. There have been already evaluations of you data, but that was not our main goal, but we wanted for parcels to be be able to evaluate them cross linguistically. So that was the partial motivation, and we also don't claim that this is the the automate annotation scheme that will cover everything that people won't cover. It is just a lingua franca so that we understand. The data developed by other people so. That's important actually. That means that universal in the name universal dependencies is not meant in the language typological sense like language universals. We have been actually criticized by that because people misunderstood that you should probably take it as universal in the sense that hopefully, every corpus every tree bank can be converted to it without losing much of the original information.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So. Now something about the design principles without behind you D first dependency itself is a design principle. We could have constituency. We could have more complex frameworks like Categorial Grammar, so HP, SG or something. But dependency turns out to be widely used already, so that's the principle I mentioned previously that if people already use it and like it, it probably should stick with it, it's available. For many languages, so it seems practical to stick with it. Second, the second keyword behind it is the lexical list hypothesis, which essentially means that for us the basic unit is the word and not morpheme or something smaller. So the word is the unit that enters syntactic relations, and word has some morphological properties and so on, but. This syntactic works what we work with. It's often the same thing as orthographical word or, but not always. So we sometimes have to split autographical words and I will talk about it later. And finally, we also really stress recover ability so that all these word segmentation decisions and tokenization and whatever we do with the data before it becomes the treebank is clearly mapped to the surface text so that people can not only train parses but also trained tokenizers and other tools that will hopefully re recreate the same. Annotation style on new data as well. Because Dad has often been problem with previous data that you had to syntactic annotation, but we didn't know how that organization was done and then you.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Don't reproduce anything. When designing the guidelines, we always think about the main goal that we had, so we don't want the same thing to be annotated in different ways and vice versa. And different things should not look the same. But there is a problem here that it's not always clear whether two things in two languages are the same thing or not. It's always just balancing weather is similar enough or not because terminologies will not always help you traditional terminologies. Traditional grammars differ. So we don't. We definitely don't want to overdo this. We don't want to. Make the languages look similar. We rather want to be able to observe that they are similar in some aspects and different in others, and we also don't claim that everything can be covered by the universal guidelines we designed, so there is always the possibility of having language specific extensions. There are two. Large layers of the annotation, morphology, and syntax so I will now show you an example from morphology. This is a check sentence in active case in its many polymers lino, which essentially means some girls. Nevertheless, like the ice cream. And that is, it's actually the Yaqui nudist example which was originally in French, but I translated it to have Slavic languages here, so we have lemmas as one annotation attributes, so the so the basic lexical entry we have part of speech tags. And then there are features which we call them conveniently morphological features, but some of them are inflectional, some of them are rather lexical and finer, partition the. Auto speech space.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
As for the part of speech tags we have. An extension of the originally Google Universal Power Speech text set. So now we have 17 tax available in the Google text set. I think it was 12 or something and. Part of speech tags are really just. There's just one universal set an the languages are not allowed to add anything to this they have to live with this inventory. They don't necessarily have to use all of the text, they don't have some of those categories, but if they want to extend it, they should choose one of the tags and then.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Use features to. Describe what's different with their particles sub category so features. These are largely taken from the Interset project. We identified subset that we thought was sufficiently attested in many languages, and so some of them are lexical distinction between nominal and verbal is just approximate, so don't take it too seriously and these can be extended for languages or three banks where it's necessary so you can design your own. New features and the features are just dimensions of meaning, so they are each feature may have multiple values, so you can also design your new value for one.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Those features As for syntax. The most important concept behind the syntactic annotation is that we favor content words. Over function words. So? Because we believe that this really helps us to achieve the cross lingual parallelism in the structures. So these blue relations are between the content words and this is the backbone of the tree, while function words are only attached to the content words to which they sort of belong, or which they modify. This is one of the most controversial decisions in you DB cause linguists often. This like this becausw. For instance, prepositions. Are usually in mostly banks thought to be the head of the prepositional phrase because they determine the case of the noun phrase and so on. Same thing with auxiliary verbs, but the answer to this is that actually in UD you should not take all the relations as necessarily showing the governor too. Dependent or controller to control direction. These are really just relations and you should consider not only the direction but also the label. So there are types like talks that the option so on and the types are not always the same thing so. With the red links here, we should rather consider the whole chunk together and the auxiliary works somehow contribute their own features to the chunk together, so sometimes, which is what is expressed by an auxiliary function work in one language is expressed by morphology or nothing at all in the other language. So.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Or in fact, actually, I just told you that dependency in the Universal dependencies name is also not strictly in the linguistic sense of dependencies. So now you may wonder. I told you Universal is not really universal. Dependencies is not real dependencies. So why we call it universal dependencies? Well, because it's a fancy name. You're probably not going to change it, but if you don't like the explanation, I just provide it. Maybe you could just call it udy and substitute unified data or whatever.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
But I'm going to show a couple more examples and trying to show that really content words are important for the cross lingual parallelism. Here is a sentence in English. The doc was chased by the cat. And the same in Bulgarian culture to suppress letter shortcut to. So you have the content words have exactly the same structure. The blue links in the two. Structures are the same, but for the function words it's not so parallel because obviously there are the articles in English, so the definiteness feature in English is actually sort of lexical feature of the while in Bulgarian, it's merely a suffix of the noun. So Wichita itself has the definiteness feature. The past tense the same thing in English. It's a feature of the auxiliary in Bulgarian. It's directly on the content word verb, and to increase the larger picture. I will also give you check translation past billion Costco where you no longer have anything about definiteness because we just don't mark definiteness and check the past tenses again on the auxiliary. As in English an unlike Bulgarian. But for the agent of the passive construction for the Cat, English and Bulgarian user pre position. While in check we use the instrumental case to mark the same thing, so you have different strategies in the languages. So to relay decode everything you would have to know this language specific strategy, but the backbone, the content of the sentence is the same in both trees.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
We have a taxonomy of currently 40 universal grammatical relations. It's probably going to change slightly in the next version of the guidelines, and again we allow language specific subtypes of these so. And the subtypes is an important word. You always have to decide what is your main relation to which you want to use and that should be as close to your real grammatical relation as possible so that people who don't want to. Learn your language. Specific subtypes will always be able to ignore them and get something that is reasonably plausible as well. There are a couple of. Dimensions along which we classify the relations. The main most important of them, probably being the core arguments versus oblique and other dependence.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Which has also proved to be a kind of problem, at least in Slavic languages.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So there is like core and non core arguments. These are the different labels that are available in those. In those categories you also distinguish whether. The dependent is nominal, or whether it's a clause including infinitives and non finite quality, and we also distinguish whether it's the governor or other parent node is clause, clause predicate, or just a nominal so for.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
For.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Minnows there a couple more relations like a position or. For prepositions we use a relation called case becausw. Prepositions often express the meaning that in other languages will be expressed by case suffixes.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Coordination has always been problem in any dependency annotation style, because it's just not normal dependency, so you always have to opt for some more or less. Good approximation what we use is known as Stanford Stack coordination, where the first conjunct is always the hat and everything else is at age directly to it.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
We also have a couple of regulations that suggest therefore multi word expressions, but we are going to rename at least some of them in the next version of the guidelines. Becausw we have actually caused misunderstanding here. We are not doing Multiword expression annotation in UD, so that would be a separate layer above. Just use these relations becausw sometimes. There is a group of words which together would be one syntactic word, but while we do segment occasionally orthographic words into multiple nodes of the tree, we don't join them to one note. Instead, we connect them using technical relations like NWE. So sometimes we just cannot tell what is the head of the cluster, and then we just use one of these relate.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And there are a couple of other relations which I don't think we have to necessarily go into details of.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And this is only a selection of the subtype relation. So as you can see, some of them really are not specific to one language. There's for instance the first one ACL is the universal prefix which says adnominal clause. So typically is something replacing an objective and relative clauses. Subtype of debt that is important in some languages. I would say in many European languages at least, so you will find it in many UDT banks as a subtype of it, but we didn't think it was so important and necessary. It would have to be a universal, universally defined relation.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And finally, a couple of words about the word segmentation. As I said, we want it to be reproducible on new data, so we always want the Surface token to appear there. But sometimes the surface token can be split into many syntactic words. And then the languages differ quite a lot, so obviously for languages like Chinese or Vietnamese, you don't even have to show what was the Surface Token, because there are no spaces in Chinese at all. An in Vietnamese there are spaces, but they don't separate words, but rather just monosyllabic morphemes. On the other end of the scale, many European languages have. Some contractions like in German zoom is the pre position two and Artikkel Dem. So this rather limited set for each language. We often give this Spanish example Abominog salmar where you have clitics attached to the verb bamos and you also have similar thing to the German contraction.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
This happens in Slavic languages as well, so in check for example we have 9 which is a pre position now and pronoun yay in Russian. The reflexive pronoun is attached to work, so so is mignacca is should be split at least in some cases. Polish is an interesting example. There is a gluten eighting auxiliaries to the main verb. So put refill. Wish May is actually. Participle together with conditional and past tense auxiliary.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So that was about you D. As it looks like now. So where are we? I believe we really managed to create a snowball effect so that that's important for the success of the project that. People now start to think that if they have some data, it's good for them to be able to convert it to you. D not necessarily to have it as the main annotation style, but to be able to show how it's converted. And there are languages now appearing for which two years ago I wouldn't bet there would be any data any soon, which is great. And there are also languages for which there were large tree banks, like the syntax for Russian, but I wouldn't have thought that it would be available freely under CC license and it is. So sorry. So we have had 4 three bank releases so far, roughly every six months. The last release had 454 three banks for 40 languages, but already now as I'm speaking, I know there are a couple more in the pipeline that are going to appear in the next release. The total size is something over 11 million tokens, but there are huge differences in size between the individual languages and three banks, so the smallest ones are just something like 1000 tokens, while the largest are over 1,000,000. And last, but definitely not least, we have created a community because there are now well over 100 contributors all over the planet, and that's great. So we.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Now working on the version two. As I said, this is just a snapshot from from the from our website, so you see there is really. Growing number of languages and three banks.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
We are working on version two and the second very important thing is we are trying to check consistency in the existing data and correct whatever we think is not perfectly adhering to the main principle that different things should not look the same and same thing should not look different and that's probably go.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
To be in our ending story, because, you know, we have the lingua franca now. It's great. We have universal guidelines, but there's always more than one way to interpret one guideline, and so we have the link.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Frank's many dialects and people have proved to be quite creative in interpreting some guidelines, so we have to work on it. And obviously we cannot. I cannot or anyone in unique in the core group cannot say, hey, you should really change this becauses it's bad because I don't speak the language. So we have always to discuss whether it looks like the same thing in the other language or no.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And what should be done if it? If it is the same thing and so on. So we have automatic tests to catch some inconsistencies, but that only works for a fraction that can tell you, for instance, that if you have something attached as a copula and it's not a verb, it looks suspicious. So probably you should at least look at the data whether it's in a mistake or whether this language really has a non verbal copula. But that's only a fraction of what can go wrong, so we are trying to put together groups. Focusing on different groups of languages you already have for romance Germany Slavic like in Turkic languages and this actually gives me a nice bridge to the second half of my talk. So I will now concentrate.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
More on what we have for sladick. Currently in UD or overall. Actually I know about three banks for seven Slavic languages, most of them. Most of those that I know of have already been converted to UD. There is one tree bank for creation, the hoobs S that I think hasn't been converted yet, but it could be 'cause it's also freely available. And there's a question mark for Slovak. Where I don't know exactly what's going to happen. They have a rather large tree bank, but unfortunately it hasn't been released because it hasn't been finished. I think they have problems with capacity and funding, but I believe there will be a way to get at least a small subset of it. And get it covered by Eudy in the near future. I know there is also somewhere going on for Ukrainian, but I don't know how far they are an let's see what happens with the other languages.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So I have selected a menu of issues that I find interesting and that are about the data in Slavic treebanks. This is not exhaustive, I could talk about this for hours, but I hope these are the most prominent and most important ones so.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
I will start with part of speech issues. There is this category of the terminals which is. Regularly distinguished in English an in some romance. Maybe most romance languages. Not necessarily in German, although it could be about traditionally German calls. This pronouns and the same holds for Slavic languages. We have just thrown out. I believe it's true in in Slovenian as well, and in most like languages that determiner is not the traditional category in the grammar. Nevertheless, we do have pronominal adjectives or adjectival pronouns. Whatever you prefer, an determiner in English is not just the article which we don't have, but. It's also things which would correspond to adjectival pronouns in Slavic languages. Actually. Calling these determiner is is not an invention of Eudy, although I thought it was until recently, but there is English literature that uses the term quite normally for adjectival pronouns as well in Slavic languages, so so it is not so off, I would say, but nevertheless.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Because we want to maximize parallelism, we should probably just think of the terminal as the class of adjective, like pronouns. And and use the category. The question is how should we use it if we don't have the distinction traditionally in our languages and that's. Really, the problem we becausw the dictionary will not tell you what is the terminal. We need a definition of how how we distinguish it from a normal pronoun. And in Eudy there in the first version of guidelines there was a purely functional definition that if it modifies a noun phrase like this car is expensive, and then this is determiner if it replaces now phrase like this is. Expensive, then it's a pronoun. It turned out that this cost problems even in English, where it leads to unexpected results, and it's also something we don't do in Udl's work. We usually don't want a part of speech tag to deterministically follow from the syntactic structure. While it is the case in the here with determiners and pronouns, so this will be less strict in UD version 2. So probably it will also be less helpful in deciding what is determining what is a pronoun, but you will have more freedom in each language to this site and we want. While we are aware that you can get rid of the syntactic structure in determining part of speech text, 'cause part of speech tags are defined at least in part by their syntactic behavior, it should rather be the prototypical behavior and you should be able to decide for most words just from dictionary where they are. It should not be the actual context in each sentence.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So. Couple of examples. Personal pronouns, not the possessive ones, but personal pronouns, are probably always in all languages. Going to be just pronounced and never determine us some of the. Interrogative or relative pronouns like Doctor, so will also be always pronounced, and you will probably be able to see that because they don't have any objective morphology, it will not help you.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
English, but in Slavic languages you always can see something from morphology processes, on the other hand, they are language specific in each language is different. In some languages, possessive pronouns are just like a genitive form of normal personal pronoun. So it really doesn't make sense to make them determine us. I would argue that in Slavic languages they are much more like objectives, although it's it holds for first and second person for the third person. I think it's pretty clear here in Southwick languages where you have neck off and it looks like an adjective as well, but in the North we have the third person more like the genitive form of the personal pronoun, but it's still used syntactically as a pre modifier noun phrase, and it more assemble syntactically objectives. So for consistency I would put it together anyway with with the first and second person.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Then the other pronouns. It might be a little more difficult with demonstrative. They are usually used as adjectives, but I think that would be in slowing and as well in check we used neutral singular toll as just a pronoun that refers to some hypothetical or general reference where you never or you could use it as determiner about much more frequently you will see it just as a pronoun that replaces a noun phrase. So as you can see, we cannot. Distinguish everything by dictionary. Either we would probably want to have some expect exceptions here.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
So. The next issue I want.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Touch on is quantified, noun phrases counted nouns. This is an issue that's a very, very slight ache, I would say. Normally in Eudy you have this number relation which attaches the the number to the counted noun. And it's similar to adjectives that modify a noun phrase, but for one kitten slapped in Slavic languages, I think it's there's no problem in it. But once the value of the numeral increases to five and more. It becomes different because now the noun is in the genitive case and the genitive case is actually governed by the by the number. And. Again, correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe this is not just just check specific, but it holds in your languages as well, so. If we do this number from kittens to five, then we are losing this government and controlled case relation. But remember we are actually doing this elsewhere in UD as well. So although the number is not really a function word in the narrow sense, we could say that again, if you look at the type of the relation, it will tell you more, so we probably should. I have a language specific subtype for NUM mode that will tell us that this case is specific the.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Other option obviously would be to reverse the. Relation an. We've been doing this in Prague with the product and Citibank, but then it has the disadvantage that you don't have consistency between numbers of different values and you even don't have consistency inside the number 5 becausw. In other cases it suddenly becomes governed by the noun, so it really was a mess.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
On the other hand. You could argue that. This this analysis is parallel to this analysis where you have nouns with genitive modifyers. And some of the nouns even have a similar meaning of quantifying somehow the genitive nouns, so you could say I want the parallelism here, so at least the message here is that if you decide for any solution, you will always have this sudden catastrophical change of of analysis somewhere, either with the nouns or with the other animals. So we just decided it, and I believe all the others, like banks in Eudy, have followed that. Decision that the parallelism inside the numeral category will be more important than that five will be analyzed as independent.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
But there is this possibility of subtyping. The numbers relation and we've done this in check and I believe it's also in Russian that you have this giovi telling you that the number actually governs the case of the of the noun in this situation. So you can use it when transforming into whatever formalism.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
And the same actually holds for pronominal quantifiers like colleague. How many were? You cannot say it's a numeral becausw inude in the category of numerals is reserved for definite quantities, so the only other possibility is determiner. But again, it's not a normal determiner, not even done determiner that I just defined for Slavic languages and adjectival sense. So again, it would deserve it specific language specific subtype. For the relation.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
So currently in check we have this. Taxonomy either numbered or debt as determiner, and with the subtypes telling whether the noun governs the case, or the numeral governs the case.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Another issue which again touches more on morphology is about verb forms an. I think this illustrates something that is found elsewhere in UD as well. We have essentially 2 problems here. One of them I mentioned already. There are conflicting national terminologies or traditional terminologies and 2nd. Texan features only apply to individual syntactic words, so especially for verbs you would sometimes like to say this is past tense or something, but it applies to a whole cluster of verb and auxiliary's, which is not.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Possible here. To give you a couple of examples, the L participle in Slavic languages has multiple uses. You have actually more uses in Slovenian than we have in check, so you can use it for past tense. I hope I didn't mess mess up anything. This is taken from the Slovenian tree Bank. Source of actually the past tense. You can use it for conditional mood and you can even use it for future tense so.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
You have to give some features to the auxiliary's. I would argue that saw is not past tense, even if it's used for past tense in this particular situation, but normally it's a present form morphologically for B. You could say it's conditionally, we could use the conditional feature, it 'cause it's used only in conditional. I guess an Bordeaux is for future form of the verb, the auxiliary, so future is probably OK here. But for the participles, you can just say it's participle you could. You would like to distinguish it from the other Slavic participles, but now the question is, should we say it's passed? It would sort of make sense in check, even though we also can use it for conditional, but the prototypical usage which check speakers will have in mind is is past. I don't believe you would like it in Slovenian, because you can also use it for future so.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
This actually illustrates that even within one group of so closely related languages slavick. There are phenomena that we probably cannot unify becausw that would create that would do more harm than good. In check, we usually call this active participle or past tense. In Russian they call it only past tense because they need don't use any auxiliary, so they even believe it should be tagged as finite verb form and not as a participle. An active participle for them is something else. It's not normal shift shape, for example, so an adjective. Telling that someone has done something. In Bulgarian, on the other hand, it's turns out to be pretty useful to be able to put the past feature there because they have two kinds of these participles, and one of them is corresponds to the artist, past tense and the other to the imperfect tense. So they want to distinguish the two forms, and so on, and slavick widen the literature. You usually find the term L participle, but that's not something which could be tagged in UD unless we define language specific feature for that. So that would be an option. But we probably would want to market as participle as well as well, and it still wouldn't work for Russian. Well, they want to have it finite finite form.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
So. So I'm not providing a solution here, but I'm just trying to illustrate the problem so you have. You don't have solutions for everything.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
I also said there's a problem with core arguments, and this distinction would they actually are, because that's the crucial distinction and you D. The idea here was that distinguishing core arguments from the oblique arguments and the other dependence is easier than doing something like argument at junk distinction at least cross linguistically. So the language typology usual distinguishes these two three functions, subject of intransitive verb, an agent of transitive verb and patient or direct object of transitive verb, where the roles can be switched. In ergative languages, it's not completely clear to me how the indirect object fits in this. Taxonomy, but nevertheless in UD, at least on the model of English, we still have it as a core function, but it's becoming a problem because in English they say it's a prototypical date, if like argument without, they don't actually have any date of morphology, so the data is essentially about work.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
And they even don't consider anything with pre position being object anymore. So he gave John. The book will have different analysis. Then he gave the book to John. But the preposition is not distinctive feature for all the languages. At least in Spanish, if you say deal Liberal Joan, then you have indirect object which is which uses a pre position and you can't omit the preposition. So it's probably going to need different distinctions in other languages in check. So far we just opted for converting anything that was object in prod.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Citibank to the option, then trying to look for some indirect object and reconvert them, but. We have actually the prototypical patients of verbs in many different, well, many four different cases. Besides access that day, we can also have genitive, dative and instrumental, and while this is not a normal direct object in the sense that you could passive eyes it. Is still the main object, and it probably should not be just an mold.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
And as I investigate it, in the current Slavic treebanks, it happens everywhere. I'm not saying it's necessary. The best thing to do to call all these direct object, but we probably don't have currently better solution, so there is now a proposal for version two that direct and indirect object should be just language specific distinction and that we should have just obj as the main label, and that would probably save.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
A lot of problems. Quite related to that, are reflexive pronouns appearing in all this logic languages and performing many different functions. One of them being still normal, direct or indirect object. So in that case they get this normal label. But then there are those inherently reflexive verbs like smart, say, meaning love in English where there's no syntactic functions at all for reflexive. And these have been analyzed very differently in the various levitti banks, and it's still the case I originally proposed that it should be a compound. But then last year in Upsala there was a discussion group on that we decided that we should use the expletive relation and language specific subtypes tell what it is. So in this case it should be exploitive, an pronominal verb, but I don't think any tree bank at this moment uses that label. Some of the three banks use Expo without an extension. There is a separate label for reflexive passive, an impersonal construction which I would say could be encompassed in an passive, but not necessarily.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
So. So that's something that really needs more consistency checking and changes in. I would say all of these Level 3 banks. My last two items on the list.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
Model auxilaries and then comparatives. This is also something in which we and now I'm talking now is saying we're Slavic. Three banks, not just check we differ from what is done in English and in I would say the other Germanic languages, at least. Modal verbs in English are considered to be auxiliary's with all the consequences like they get the ox part of speech tag and they get the ox relation. And that means that they cannot be head of the verb. A phrase instead they had to be attached to a main verb, so I should have been waiting there as this analysis, while in.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
Check the same sentence below victim. Yeah, check out will look different. And so here we are losing the parallelism, but that's because we just can't violate every language, so that just put it too. To the same box. So somewhere there's the borderline and we decided to check that. Probably it's here that there is no good reason to treat the modal verbs in check as auxiliaries. In English. It actually makes makes much more sense because they have very. Deficient paradigms and there's this question test for word order, so they behave much more differently from the normal verbs than they do in Czech. And again, I believe that in other Slavic languages it will be similar. So that's why we use the X comp relation, but we gain on the other side parallelism with various other verbs that take infinitive complements, like I begin to wait, or I decided to wait and see.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
So on. There is also an interesting example from Russian in another web page, but I I have to drink some water where. The model work here is actually not a verb at all, it's. Some people would say adverb Russian grammar says something like predicative without telling whether it's a adverb or something else. It's probably at the magically something like predicative adjective, but it doesn't appear anywhere. Then in the predicate. So we give it the same analysis. Here it takes a infinitive complement, view pages, complement of nado. And it's parallel to what we would do in Czech and where we have a verb instead of nado. And it actually could be parallel to English.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
Is well, not. If you say I must drink some water then must will be auxiliary. But if you say I need to drink some water, then there's the borderline in English where they no longer consider this to be a model because you have the two infinitive marker. So now it becomes parallel as well. So as you see this. Snow disaster here, probably that we lose the parallelism in the in that one case of must and can.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
And my fine.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
Two slides I also wanted to show you comparative constructions because first it was difficult for us to find a solution for that, because originally there was no mention of that in any Eudy guidelines later on. We put something there and Secondly nicely illustrates a couple of the parallel phenomena, including copy. Actually, here we have popular in check movie Autostarts, Teenage Boy. Same in English. My father is older than yours, but in Russian they don't have the copula and that's why. Not only in Russian, but about in other languages. Well, Turkish, Arabic and so on. So that's why you decide that copy lies in auxiliary worked and that it should be attached as a leaf to the tree rather than governing the other sentence. And so then we get parallel structure here, becauses my Starship viable is just if I had the blue links here, you would see that again they are parallel all three sentences. And we also don't have the. Junction in Russian becausw. Instead of that, there is a genitive case, but otherwise it's a nice.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
Parallel structure and 2nd example of comparative construction uses a whole clause as as this standard of comparison, so they put us in more expensive hotel than we had expected, and again, you see that some words are missing in some languages. So in Russian and English you have analytical comparison Boleadora going more expensive while in check we have morphological comparison. Check we don't have the pronominal subject. Why in English and Russian you have to have it, but we have auxiliary as well as in English and Russian doesn't have it. So again there is a parallel backbone of the trees, but some words are inevitably missing, and so that's good that they are leaves of the struct.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
So that's it. I think it's time.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
Rip up, so I tried to show you that the UD is a great project. At least had a great jump start and it's growing, but still a lot more work to do, especially in the area of consistency checking. And I would like to encourage you to get involved, either as contributors if you believe there is data that you have access to and it's not covered yet and should be, or at least as users, because all these three banks are searchable online and you can try to find interesting patterns in it, and maybe find some bugs where we would encourage you to let us know so that we can fix them. So.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
Thank you.
