The term cargo cult is also idiomatically used in the words of Wikipedia to mean any group of people who imitate the superficial exterior of a process or system without having any understanding of the underlying substance. This is one data set where we have the altitude and the average temperature of different places in Germany. So this builds on these methods of kernel independence testing, and these methods can be derived by viewing, looking at the kernel mean map. There's just the deterministic method that I just told you about. The Red One is our additive noise methods that I mentioned before this took was one is additive noise with post nonlinearity. So let me try to connect things a little bit more to machine learning and mode. I think that's sort of clear to everybody working in covariate shift and covariate shift adaptation is either trivial or at least possible. So this is a shift invariant cuddle. But if we restrict the class of input distributions here for instance to distributions, so even images that have compact support and then this process becomes invertible even if this is just a very small aperture, as long as it's larger than zero this problem. In real life we often draw causal conclusions from individual objects. So remember the causal Markov condition local, the local form, which said that an observable is statistically independent of its non descendants given the parents. So I think you all have heard about Kolmogorov complexity of a binary string. One can define algorithmic mutual information, so information of X about Y and vice versa in terms of Kolmogorov complexity. One can define conditional algorithmic mutual information. It's the local algorithmic market conditions, so we have a set of observations formalized as strings, and then given its direct causes, every variable. And also if we have certain assumptions that may conditionally independent testing feasible, or if we have a good good enough conditionally independent testing method, then we can estimate a so called Markov equivalence class of graphs that contains the correct graph by running conditional independence test. So what can we do? Also, it was very nice is we can define a certain algorithmic model of causality which we can show to imply the algorithmic Markov condition. And with that I would like to acknowledge my Co workers in the field of causality, field of image deconvolution and in this field of kernel means which we've been working on already for a longer time. People like to live there and think this is a nice place, and young families will settle there and produce more babies, so this was a very simplistic model with the storks is probably wrong, probably everything that I've said is wrong in some sense. Maybe the most plausible one which is to restrict the functional model. Now we can try to use this to suggest a causal inference method, and I think it is obvious how we're going to do it.