One of the things I'm going to try to go through real slowly as the very basics of what do we want machine learning to do? In supervised learning, which is sort of a common mode that we want to operate in, we're going to be given a whole bunch of training examples and our training examples all have a label associated with them. It's the thing that we're given an. So for example, in the case we've been talking about where someone gives me an image and I would like to know, is this a cat, we could represent the cat as a vector of pixel intensities, and then we're going to pass it through some function that I'm just going to call F of X here. And then we're going to ask it to predict a discrete binary label, either 0 if it's not a cat or a one if it is a cat, and the question for machine learning. So we just want to review a very simple binary classification algorithm. So it's F of X and then this little; Here just means that the variables to the right are sort of parameters, but you can just think of X and Theta here as being two inputs to F. And F of X is going to have this definition where it's 1 / 1 + X of minus the inner product or dot product of Theta and X. So we want it to be large when Y is equal to 1, meaning it's a cat and we want it to be small and Y is equal to 0, meaning it's not a cat. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to sum over all the examples and whenever the label is one, I want to basically make this value in here large. So how do we actually tune Theta to minimize this thing? And this works for simple problems. So for example, if I ask you is this a coffee mug you have very little hope and you can take my word for it. Is this so darn hard? This is a coffee mug and I'm going to do that for a whole bunch of coffee mugs or cats. Then I'm also going to do it for a whole bunch of things that are not coffee mugs. Now it's actually a fair game which we asked our machine learning algorithm. This is in a coffee mug. So what we end up doing is we hardwire some function Phi into the system, so that when we plug X into fee, it outputs some new representation. The basic idea behind deep learning is that we saw how to do supervised learning. So here is somehow extend this to the case where these features are given by tuneable functions, functions that themselves we can actually learn. There's this outer part, which is just the same pieces before it's from our logistic regression classifier. But this is now a tunable function and it has, as its output is going to be a vector an in this vector. We basically have each row of W * X, and then the fact that I put the sigmoid around this vector means we're just going to apply that 1 / 1 + X function to every element of this vector. So this is the same as logistic regression, but now we have a function that's got several stages in it. One of the sort of common approaches to machine learning. And then we usually have some final off the shelf machine learning algorithm that we just drop all this information into and it tries to learn to make decisions starting from this sort of higher level representation. Sometimes you'll see this box taking on some pretty complex engineering where we're trying to build. Our goal is to minimize this thing over Theta and W. And just like before what we need out of this system is a gradient with respect to Theta and a gradient with respect to W. And if we have those then we can do gradient descent or we can run some other optimizer to minimize this function. The idea is that let's suppose we have some module. Here are the elements of a Jacobian matrix. And we can build up sort of a toolkit. So the whole training procedure here boils down to collecting a bunch of training data just like we would do for logistic regression. So this is sort of a starting point for talking about deep learning. So we might start with some low level features, like detecting edges in an image, and then we want to move to sort of middle level features like recognizing parts and so forth to maybe some higher level structures like recognizing objects. And then at the very end, only at the very end we're going to have some classifier that makes some application specific decision. Like, is this a cat where the outlines of an object and so on, and the basic idea is that whenever we build these pipelines where going from sort of low level ideas and getting more and more abstract representations as we go up and whereas we normally build that by hand, we want to somehow train these multiple layers from data and try to discover a representation so that by the time we get to the high level features out here. Unfortunately, this historically has not worked so easily. And unfortunately, it's just been generally hard to diagnose and debug all of the various problems that come up here. The initialization of the parameters matters if you just pick a whole bunch of random values for Theta, but they're too big, too small. And finally, the optimizer that you use and how you set that up turn out to matter a lot as well. So for example, the choice of nonlinearities turns out to be pretty critical. Interestingly, you can use like absolute value rectification, which sort of to me doesn't seem like it should have worked so well, but turns out to be pretty useful. So the actual is initialization also matters a lot. Usually we pick small random values and one thing that you should be careful about is you should try to choose these random values so that you don't accidentally end up in parts of your neuron response or your feature response. So that when I forward prop everything through my neural network, all the responses don't saturate and I get everything in kind of a nice range so that then when you do gradient descent, everything works out for you. More tightly tuned models and it turns out that up to a factor of two can matter. So run a couple of gradient descent steps and look at a histogram of the size of the update you're making to each of your weights an what you would like to have happen is for a typical update to be something like 1 / 1000 times, the magnitude of the weight. You can run into the problem I told you earlier where it'll look like you're making lots of progress early, but you actually get a worse model in the wrong in the long run. Ocean behind this is that it's a little bit like second order information is telling you something about how curved this space is that you're trying to optimize in. So in addition to this step size that we have to figure out, we also need to come up with some scheme for setting the momentum and some typical advice is to start out with mu fairly small, something like 0.5 so that the momentum isn't doing too much for you. And then to gradually increase this to something like 0.9 or 0.99. Just a couple of other factors that I think are important. One is that weight decay, which is a sort of. That can help avoid things like saturation and so on. Why do we want to even do this deep learning thing? There are handful of sort of simple justifications. And all the systems we currently have, no matter how we built them, involve many different stages of processing. A way to do that is to just get a lot more data with a lot bigger computer. It's really hard to sort of scale up and take advantage of all these things because you have so much knowledge wired in and less you're more clever unless you can get increasingly clever, it's harder and harder to get better results. So the answer to the question have we been here before? And the on the yes side. If you take a machine learning course, you learn about how to debug machine learning algorithms. We are better at figuring out how to initialize these neural networks and all these different models. And finally, I think this is also another underappreciated point, which is that. And then we're going to go through sort of natural extension of that to supervised deep learning and sort of give you some tools for actually training a deep neural network. Turns out you need some extra ingredients and I'll tell you what those are.