We firstly use relation extraction technique to extract a bunch of summary or see relation instances. An in surface realization we fill those relation instances into automatically learn templates. Then we use the statistical rancor to select one best abstract for each relation instance. We first define the relation instance as indicator argument pair, where indicator evokes a relation, an argument is the target. So we we require our relation instance candidates to be having the indicator of none or verb argument has to be a noun phrase, prepositional phrase, or objective or phrase. Then we're training a binary classifier based on support vector machine to predict whether this relation instances summary worthy or not. Simple features included TF IDF scores. Before running this MSA terrorism, I would like to cluster those sentences or the abstract sentences in the training data or according to their lexical or structural similarity. They're describing the same domain specific content. For example, natural language processing or machine learning, so we will first replace all the periods of dates, numbers, and proper names with generic semantic labels. Now we can define the backbone nodes as the tokens shared by more than 50% of the sentences. Where specifically interested in this set of problem called focused meeting summarization which is to generate some Rays only for some specific important out food of the meeting. Then we train us to discover anchor based on support vector regression to get one best abstract for each relation instance. We also use language model features where we train our language model based on the Greek word and we measure the probability of this generous abstract based on this language model. We evaluate our algorithms on two disparate corpora. It has 139 scenario driven meetings and it also contains abstracts for decisiones, action items and problems. So firstly we would like an isolated content selection part from the whole system. We also compared with state of the art, supervised learning based approach. Here's an example on the left hand side is a clip from the am I meeting corpus and we also show on the right hand side is a decision summary constructed by human annotator. You can see from this example that any extract from this clip will be likely to contain noisy information redundancy. We use blue, which is designed for machine translation task, but it has also be used for evaluating all language generation systems. We also ask for different human judges to evaluate the fluency, semantic correctness and overall quality of our system summary. We first propose this fully automatic domain independent abstract generation framework for focused meeting summarization and then we rely on task specific templates to get our abstract generation process and we will present a novel template instruction algorithm with multiple sequence alignment. Our work is related to those work beyond extracting meeting summarization. They first map those utterances to the corresponding summary type, an extractor ones with most entities. The generation process is is your only decompose into content selection. They generate text based on the decisions made to select the records fields and proper templates.