I'll talk about something called the trust propensity prediction problem. In this algorithm, and of course, this is the data description and again. You know 60,000 examples and all that business, OK? Social variables OK and at the bottom is where we use the the measured variables of trust from housing and in fact as you can see, well, all of these are basically information gain measure. He's looking at various different aspects of trust and this particular paper. We talked about this trust propensity prediction, which really, is that given an individual, how likely is that person to trust others, and how likely are other people to trust this person? That trust is ubiquitous problem in video social settings. It has been studied in various different contexts. Suppose you have a trust network at some time period here. I guess any kind of change in the graph is the trust prediction problem, but not just the change in there after many different factors of example. That means how much time will this trust formation happen? That means will trust between A&B, change or trust change, duration prediction or trust intensity prediction or internetwork trust prediction which says that if there's some activity going on in some other network then captain that cause some changes in the trust network because we have this multi network scenario here or trust propensity prediction, that's the specific problem. OK again, computational aspects of it. And then decision to trust is relative to an individual. So a person who's trustworthy for one person may not be trustworthy, Father, person, and an again a trustworthy person is one who trust who is trusted by many people. Most people live, so if someone is trusted by lots of people who are kind of sceptical, then that means it is. Hubs are highly valued pages for a given query who linked to many authority pages and authorities are highly endorse pages for a given query are linked by many, many hub pages. Trusting Ness is propensity of an individual to trust others, and trustworthiness is the property of an individual that he or she should be trusted by others. It turns out that an authority is analogous to a trustworthy node. However, Hub is not really analogous to a trusting person, since a trusting person trusts everyone regardless of their being trustworthy. OK, so there's a complementarity to it, but if you look at.