[0.0s - 29.0s]
What I'm interested in this?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Multi class classification, and in particular I am interested in using the confusion matrix as a performance measure in multi multi class classification. So the reason for that is as you can see with the small example in a binary classification where you have for instance you want to predict whether a molecule is toxic or drugs, toxic or not, where you have a distribution of classes that is so that you have. A 0.01% of positive classes and 99% of negative classes. Then if you just use the class misclassification rate as a performance measure, then the classifiers that always outputs non toxic is actually as a very low error rate which is 0.01. However, it makes 100% error on the positive data, which is the important data. So naturally there is a traditional way to take into account the imbalance and the thing that you have different classes, which is to look at the finer grain measure of performance which is given for instance by the true positive and false negative matrices. Or you can have a precision. Recall an RC curves and things like that. So in the case of.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
A multiclass classification? I'm going to focus on the these. What I called the 0 diagonal confusion matrix where she's just basically the traditional confusion matrix where I just count the number of times the proportion of times the classifier H misclassified some data from classic you in another class, and I've removed the diagonal. Other metrics and I'm interested in actually controlling this matrix while doing a online learning process. There is an interesting thing that. If you use any norm of these confusion matrix, then you can relate a size of the of the matrix with the traditional error rates, meaning that if you can control the size of the confusion, you can control the error rate, which is just a byproduct. It's not the thing that I'm really interested in, I just want to control the size of the confusion matrix so.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So to do that, I take a passive aggressive approach an I have to solve the problem like that that actually comes from a statistical analysis of the problem with the online learning problem, and so it is a result of the theoretical analysis of online learning and the features of the algorithm that proposes that it's based. Actually, if you know a little bit on about multiclass classification, this is. Something that based on a consistent might likewise classification algorithm. It's uses all of any classifiers to make the updates, not just the most offending classifier. You don't have to resort recourse to optimization tool boxes, you can just do each iteration in very short time just sorting your data and it statistically sound. So if you're interested, just come to my post tourist number. Devalues 77 It's tomorrow night. Thank you.
