I'm going to talk about some of our ongoing work on label ranking with abstention. In particular, I would like to talk about how to predict partial orders by thresholding probability distributions. Let's assume that you have different posh cars and you have different colors at different cars and you have different users and normally the users categorized by feature vectors just like a normal supervised learning setting. The following question can we restrict this P relation to exclude the possibility of cycles and violation of transitivity from the very beginning? Practice model is a multistage model which is first introduced by Deuce and Subsequentially, discussed by packet. So idea behind this model is. So here the chances 6 / 20. So overall we have a chance of 3 / 14 to have this ranking. I'd like to talk about is the models model, which is a distance based model from exponential family. And the ranking that is closer to the center ranking will be hover a higher probability than the than the rankings which are far away from the center ranking. So basically it's control. OK, and because we are talking about the closeness of rankings, so we need a discount function and ranking here. We say a distant on rankings is said to have this transposition property if and only if. Top I Sigma is smaller than or equal to Delta π Prime Sigma for any Pi and Sigma in the permutation space and any pair of items such that Pi and Sigma ranking them in the same relative order. So here the pie prime is a ranking identical to pie. That are the linear extensions of why I better YJ. So here this pie is the position of the ice label in the ranking. So let's preference relation P is given by a probability distribution. The board P on the ranking space. This is measured by gamma rank correlation. The complaint isn't measured by 1 minus the relative number of pairwise comparisons on which the model absence. So a natural way to derive partial orders is to threshold the valued preference relation, but it may leads to inconsistency. So if you really assume that the pairwise comparison is induced by certain public models on rankings, then you can threshold your relation safely OK, even though in this study we focus on label ranking setting but actually the result should be immediately imply applies. So the idea is that we try to train a learner that is able to say I don't know how this is a setting which is where started in classification. Just for the ease of representation for the ease of interpretation, I would say here the partial extension I mean is the target is total order and predicted partial order expressed in complete knowledge about the target. Now here it's still not a partial order because it is not transitive. The question becomes giving a valued relation P. We try to find the smallest structure Q such that transitive chloral of PQ defines a proper partial order.