[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thanks and thanks everybody for coming down to this remote room. Let's talk about multi assignment clustering. For Boolean data it's joint work with David Basin and Yahoo.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And with Andreas Strike who's also here? That's how it looks like. So you could also refer to him at the poster session, and that's a talk about clustering clustering method of pulling data where single objects are allowed to belong to more than class modern one cluster at once.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So let me shortly motivate this, could maybe someone dim the light a bit. Oh OK, not allowed. OK so yeah. Yeah, we have two classes here, so we have the grad students cluster. They have some binary features, so grad students are usually smart. They think a lot about research and sometimes they don't. And we have to comic characters cluster. They have also some prototypical binary features an now we face the problem where we should assign this single data object. Cecilia tool. She's famous comic character, but she's as well PhD student. So where should we assign her to? In standard clustering we would only have the option to assign her to a single cluster A or B. Or we could. Partially assign her to both classes or as we would like to do it, we want to assign her to both clusters at the same time at once so she belongs fully to two classes and gains all her binary features from both of the classes at once. OK, so.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The data that we're considering are of the same kind as Cecilia is. Each data object is a vector of binary features, and we indicate the ones or the truth with black dots always. And wides correspond to Boolean false or two zeros, and if you see this matrix that's just a stack of many, many objects, so each row. Corresponds to a single object, and now our task is to cluster such data. And we assume that. That this data items are.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Constructed in the following way so just a sisilia an object can belong to more than one cluster. And here I have an example of an object that belongs to three classes at once, and here are the three prototypes of these clusters. And so, as you can see, the final object is just a Boolean disjunction of all the classes it belongs to. So if you have. Let's say object feature one active at the first cluster. The object will have also this. This feature active, and if you have for example. Here we have began the this attribute from 2 classes to still sums up to one. So that's a Boolean or basically OK, so that's how these objects are generated and we want to cluster them in a probabilistic setting. So we have to find the probabilistic model for it, and the next few slides I want to briefly explain.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
This model works, so it's. It's kind of the newly model. We have several variables here, so first let me show you the set IK. That's just the cluster assignments. If you sum over all the clusters K to, some might be created in volume. OK, so this accounts for the multi assignments. End. The class is itself. They consists out of prototypes centroids. This better Ki Chase and a single better KJ gives you the probability that this cluster emits zero at this dimension chain. So as you have seen on the last slide, if there's. A single cluster that emits one, then the object will also have one at the end. So by having being assigned to more than one cluster or to an increasing number of clusters, the chance to have a zero at a particular dimension decreases, and this is expressed in this likelihood formula. So it basically consists out of two terms. The first term is active if zice is 1, so that's just kind of a switch variable. S as in the standard Bernoulli model, and this is the probability to have a zero at the dimension J and as you can see, it's just the product over all the classes that this object belongs to. So this set I case are also switches. They activate the centroid variables better for the clusters that the object I belongs to. And here this is graphically illustrated, it's again an object being emitted by three classes at once. And, um. To create value here indicates the chance to emit 0, so the private is that the more wide it is, the higher chance to have a zero. And as you can see by the Boolean disjunction of of these objects, the probability to admit a zero decreases OK, so this is. The outcome is a vector of probabilities for this single cluster. For each of the dimensions to have a zero there. And as you can see, it's. Less likely then each of the single clusters the object belongs to. OK, so this is the signal part of the model. We also have a noise.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
This part. That's just a global Bernoulli process, so if an object. Uh. X is emitted or gets its feature by the noise process at dimension J. Then we simply flip a coin with probability R and. The combined model is then. The combination out of this noise process and the signal process and we simply have these switching variables or noise indicators, CIA, and if it's one then we then object excite. Chase is defined by the noise situation. If it's zero, it's defined by the signal distribution. End up. These excite shake CI chase in turn are again drawn from the penalty distribution with probability epsilon epsilon. So epsilon is the. The probability for excited to be drawn from the noise distribution OK, and if we.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Marginalized out these excite shatak CI chase. We finally get the full data likelihood. So yeah, we we simply sum over all possible values of CCA and what we get is. Define likelihood of our model so you see with probability, epsilon. And excite chase from from the noise distribution PN and with probability 1 minus epsilon is strong from the similar distribution. So that's the model you see. The objects and dimensions are independent from each other and we try to find the parameters for this model that maximize the likelihood, and we solve this optimization problem. We are deterministic annealing, but I won't go really into that technique. OK. That's the model so far. Now I want to show you some results.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
First of all, this small signal result. We have an input data matrix. Again, the rows are the objects. The columns indicate the dimensions and black dots indicate a one or a Boolean. True and down. Here we have the clustering results, so this is the assignment matrix set. It indicates for each of the objects to which of the three classes it belongs to. And here are the cluster centroids. So for each of the clusters it indicates at which dimension. They emitted one or a zero. And if we combine these two matrices again with a Boolean distinct disjunction, we get the reconstruction of the data matrix. At the bottom right. And so this is. Just a single part of the data that we in field with our model, and if he substr act, the original data matrix from reconstructed data matrix reminder is simply the noise. So appear we have this difference and you see. Where the noise is located in the crate values indicate very agreed with the data and from this picture you don't really see. How well the model worked or whether technique work because you don't see any structure and, but actually that's how the model sees it. So as I said, the objects and the dimensions are independent from each other, but I can help you a bit by rearranging the rows and columns such that objects of the same cluster chasing too.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Each other, so that's just a simple permutation. And then you see. That there was actually some structure hidden in the data and we really were able to reveal this structure, so that's the same data matrix as before, but now just columns and rows permuted. And, um. Yeah, you see, in this case the method was really successful even though there was a quite high noise level in the data and we did. Such experiments very often, so we repeated it several times, so different noise levels and we tried to. Estimate the real underlying cluster centroids with our model.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And here's an outcome of such an experiment. Here on the Y axis you see the accuracy of the centroid estimation or more correct, you see the mismatch. So the inaccuracy. And here you see the fraction of noise bits in the original data. So this corresponds to the true epsilon and the red curve gives the result for multi assignment clustering. And it's quite good result. I would claim so. Up to 60% of noise. We are still below 5% of centroid mismatch. And then results get worse. And the blue line indicates the result for single assignment clustering. So this is simply the same model as we had for multi assignment clustering. But with the constraint that clusters cluster assignments only sum up to one. So each object only belongs to a single cluster. And in order to give this a chance we. We allowed for higher number of clusters, so actually we. The allowed single assignment clustering to have. A number of classes that corresponds to all possible combinations of the number of classes that multi assignment clustering head. So they have they are in the same situation basically, but single assignment clustering. It's worse results because because it simply has to estimate a lot more parametres in order to explain the same data. OK, so This is why I believe that multi assignment clustering really makes sense in this setting.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
OK, we also compared the method to two other methods, so this is. The. I know we called it so the authors didn't really came up with an acronym for it, so we call it IO Infinite, noisy, or that's a combination of the Indian buffet process and a noisy or likelihood. And then we have the discrete basis problem solver. That's a combinatorial method, greedy algorithm, and we have binary ICA methods and we did the same experiment also with these methods.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And here's the outcome again, it's same axis again, the red curve is our result, and now we have results as well for the other competitors, so. Yeah, the best computer basically was the infinite noisy or up to noise levels of 30%. Then it kind of collapse, collapse and combinatorial method interestly Interestingly. Had some benefit from the first increase of noise, so we believe that that's kind of regularization of this combinatorial method, so. Yeah, and binary ICA. Was really stable to noise, but not really good overall. OK, so this is.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
This results on synthetic data. Now I want to show you. Some results in real data, and it's an interesting application called role Mining. It emerged from the field of role based access control and role based access control. Here's a small example to explain it. So in a network or let's say in the company you have many users. And you have many possible permissions to grant access to some resources, and you can administrate it in this way, so you can directly assign each of the users to all the permissions that he has. So across indicates an assignment, or you can use role based access control. That's the right hand side of this equation, and that's again a Boolean disjunction of two matrices. First, we have the assignment. Of of this, users to so-called rolls and then we have assignments from rolls to permissions, and in this example. As it is very common in role based access control, uses are able to have more than one role. OK, so here we have this clerk #5. He's an account manager, so he has all the permissions that in a standard account manager has but also maybe has to administrate some stuff in his organizational unit and therefore also he's assigned to the admin role, which means he is allowed to uninstall. Outlook for example. So. That's role based access control and role mining is the task to go from this direct assignment to roll system and infer. Is this role assignments and the role prototypes based on some some method? So there are many combinatorial methods out there and we use our probabilistic method.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Tomorrow morning. And we got the real data set. It's from a Swiss bank and it consisted out of 4900 users and 1300 permissions. Endem yeah for real data you don't really know the truth, so it's hard to do something like this accuracy experiment. So what we did is we did. Generalization tests so for role mining it's really important to find roles that generalize well, and intercepting it means. That the roads that you find they should be able to grant all users to permissions and even those users that might come to the company in the future. So so even new users should be able to get their permissions with the roles that you find. Cause if you find roles that don't generalize well, you have to set up a new role mining system every half year or something like that. OK, so the road should be really as general as possible, and we did the following test. We took only a part of the data matrix that we got and trained the roles and role assignments and then. We took the second part of it as a test set, and for each of the users of the test set, we revealed a certain fraction cuppa of the permissions and based on these permissions we assigned some roles to these users and then we checked if the permissions granted from these roles to actually match to the real permissions. That issues ahead. OK, so this is this prediction error. Did you test it and they did it for four different fraction of revealed permissions? Koppa and. Here our method is indicated by the red curve, so it's really good as compared to the other methods, and here. Interestingly, the combinatorial methods was the best competitor and we did this experiment on the real data set on the original data set, but also if you're interested in how things would look like if data set would be much more complicated. So therefore we added. 33% of noise to the data set and did the same experiment again and then. As you can see, all methods suffered a bit, but ours remained the best and. Especially the combinatorial method really. Could get much worse, so it's simply overfitted. It has no computer, at no no probabilistic model behind it. OK, here's something.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
If you want to do in the future, we just want to include other noise processes and we want to incorporate additional information to this role mining application. And recovery currently working on that. OK so thank you very much.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Some questions. I have a question. The role mining application is really interesting and it seems like you could also use that to detect incorrectly assigned. Maybe yeah yeah. Art fit well by any coherent role. Has access to salary records relation. Yeah yeah yeah, that's true. So that's actually what we are. Also the question. Sorry, gotta question was in this role mining scenario. It would be interesting to also be able to detect wrong or erroneous assignments, and that's actually what we're trying to do, becausw. This revealed datasets that we have. There are really noisy, so these companies told us that they know that many users have permissions that they shouldn't have. It's just based on historical reasons. Someone calls the help desk for a single event. They need some permission to something and then they never get rid of these permission again. 'cause I mean, if you have permission you don't complain about it and therefore our model. I mean this model was originally. Motivated by this application and therefore we have this noise process. Which is able to explain something like this. And actually works quite well. So it seems like most money problems. So there are some component oral methods out there who already do something like this. Then what we already did, we use the infinite. Quotes. Infinite relational model. From Kemp to do by clustering approach. So that's already something like 2 level hierarchy clustering. And of course you could increase this tool. To hire better services. When will using the floor? Like in your example. If it would match down all the truth with a prototype that was good enough. Even if the truth were the falsest weren't matching correctly, so so it looked to me like if you had an example where all the features were true, it would fit into every cluster. I think I didn't get it. This one. He said that XI fit into all three clusters. It doesn't fit into all three classes, but it is generated by all three clusters together, so we consider this as a generative process. So if an object belongs to three clusters, it's generated by them together, so it gets all. The features are in our application. All the permissions that this object has. So in this toy example we had here. We have this object belonging to these two clusters so sisilia has. All these three features, but she also has these 3 features. Add one more quick question. So deterministic annealing works really well when you get stuck in local minima, you don't use it, you still get anywhere close to these results. We do agree the method. So if you don't use a concept like this. Get stuck in local minima really fast, 'cause that's a very high dimensional optimization process and there are many many local minima out there. So we really benefit from deterministic annealing and especially we use very slow cooling scheme too. To avoid this, minimum. Speaker one more time.
