So I'm going to give you a tutorial on logic based approaches to SRL so those people who have ESL conference affair amount of this will be probably quite familiar to use, but I'm hoping to bring more people into the SRL fold by explaining how it all works. So first of all, I will start very gently is after lunch and some of you had some huge hard and will go through some of the connections between logic and probability. I'm going to finish with an example, some actual learning. The two most common ones are computing the marginal distribution of one or more variables. Which is what we're assuming defines our probability distribution we take through these factors multiplied together and get a bigger factor. So what are the characteristics of 1st order logic? Now we propositions assert properties of objects and also relations of objects. So the key thing is that we have a language in which we talk about objects. And these objects are represented by things called ground terms, and the reason it's called 1st order is because we can quantify over objects and we have some quantum University quantified formerly down here. What is a universally quantified formula? We're going to make life easier for ourselves and just consider her Brown models and basically the way to think of her brand model is that it assigns the value true or false to each ground atomic formula in our language in question. So the key point of bringing this up is essentially because of we got this. One of the key good things about first order logic is that in order to perform inference in first logic, we do not have to translate down to propositional logic. You know when he was first grappling with some of the algorithms which are now form part of logic programming systems. We've got this propositional probabilistic models usually connected to graphs in one way or another. Well, we had we had normal factors which the product of which describes some probability distribution. As templates for its ground instances, and we're going to represent a whole bunch of factors with the same structure by a single factor using logical variables. OK, and typically one as well as having one is just saying well this represents all the factors you can get by sticking something into Exterran. So it's a bit. Probabilistic representation, So what sort of probability distribution have we defined? So what happens now is that each ground Atom becomes a random variable. A random variable. If these random variables are binary, which is the you know assumption one. Another thing is to say although we have described the probability distribution over Herbrand models and using logic once we have done that, it is a kind of independently existing mathematical object. Can we do inference by which we mean marginalization maximization in first order probabilistic models? Mother formula with a free variable. We know this to be the case already, so as I said, you're in the right place, sorry. And I said one of them is definitely this lifted inference, infer sort of probabilistic models. Basic idea is that when we got repeated structure, we want to exploit it when it's available, but often when, especially when he had evidence in lots of a nice symmetries that we have an original verse or probably model might disappear, so it's not at all a trivial trivial problem. Here's the number of two true groundings of that clause in this particular world. One satisfied health is close to satisfied up to close K. That's the key. And if you think about it, when you are dealing with stochastic grammars, for example hidden Markov models, which is just sarcastic regular grammars, essentially there are very many random variables involved in such a such a process, which is why they can model infinite infinite processes and similarly dynamic Bayesian networks. A number of formalisms, ISL peas in prisons. Let's talk a bit about the prism approach, then have time to go through the whole history of the source stuff. So in the PRISM approach, the division of Labor is very, very is as follows. The probability distribution, the basic probability distribution which is defined is extremely simple. An infinite collection of independent and identically distributed random variables, and just for the sake of argument, suppose this one here. All these guys have the same distribution, but they have up to 9 different sorry 10 different values here. What we do is we say we have this original distribution and we're going to extend it by adding in a fixed logical theory. F2 is some other instantiation, F3 is yet another instantiation. The number of RAM models is presumably bigger because we've got language will be a bit bigger because we've got. And there's some stuff which I'm scandalously glossing over to do. You know neither it nor its negation gets easily inferred, so they wouldn't get probabilities adding up to one. Possible world, so it's convenient to specify what's under the target predicate T. In this case, just it doesn't ask me magic, just my examples magic. And we define it in such a way that exactly 1 ground Atom with this predicate symbol is true in any particular possible world. If you're familiar logic programming, you can think of this. So how do we compute target probabilities from this prison distribution? What happens here with the prism case, whatever that we don't consider all possible infinite instantiations of the base distribution. If you're trying to compute the probability of some particular ground Atom here. Salt his propositional logic in one slide. I'm assuming most people have at least some familiarity with it, so propositional atoms are. If we are a particular joint instantiation of all the atoms in some particular propositional language which satisfy some. Propositional formula is known as a model of that Formula One the slight problems with connecting probabilistic reasoning. So you have to be a bit careful with this word model here, and I'm deliberately choosing rather bizarre way of representing propositional formulas down the bottom here in order to better make the link with probabilistic models, which will come to quite shortly. Now, one of the night. Another interesting aspect of this particular sort of Bayesian network learning is that the parameters are known alright, so if this was the true pedigree and we're going to be dealing with so, we're going to deal with nettik data. Motivational thing SRL is there are lots of logical constraints. OK, that's enough on propositional logic. Let's just move to what I'm going to call propositional probabilistic models. To find them so the basic idea is you can view it as generalizing propositional logic. We now allow any non negative values in the factors here, not just zeros or ones, and generally speaking your random variables can don't have to be binary. You'll notice that what we've got over here doesn't look much like a probability distribution, 'cause the numbers are rather too too large. So the probability that a zero and B0 in this particular distribution is 20 / 82. Just briefly, I'm sure most people have come across with Bayesian network is before, but just for the record and because we're going to be learning Bayesian networks later if we restrict the factors in the following way, we have one factor for each variable. The fact the factor for the variable is a conditional distribution of that variable given some other variables known as its parents.