[0.0s - 29.0s]
Say a little bit about my group. I run a group inside maths and stats and we call the Center for Mathematics of Human Behavior and Mission actually is to be the originate are of modeling concepts and algorithms we don't wish to be the exploiter, so we're happy to team with all sorts of industry, all sorts of public bodies, including other government and people like that. And the way we talk to them and qualify them is whether they look as though they're prepared to actually do something. They don't look as though they're prepared to do something. Then we don't go to a second meeting good.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
This is what social media world looks like, according to one view of a Facebook intern and the topic I'm going to talk about today is to say as we move forwards last year, smart phones and iPads. Tablets outsold PC's and desktops and laptops were already in the Internet of Things everywhere we go. We're communicating. We're talking to one another and there's a sort of general question I want to focus on today, not to specifically practical one, but a general one which says that. How will increase networking lead to a plethora of perhaps smaller communities or diverse communities? 50 years ago everybody you know watched the BBC and and read the Daily Express and so it's relatively easy for the politicians to governors. Now it's almost impossible because almost anything that happens, David Cameron is behind the curve. There's always a group of people who are ahead of him, and so this has implications for SoC for democracy for all sorts of things in particular, we're interested in norms, the ideas of social norms. Social norm might be that what's normal normal in terms of behavior about politeness or behavior about friendship or threatening behavior, or how you behave at a football game or all of those sorts of things and norms, attitudes, behaviors. Hunter Schafer networking. What happens when the states of the vertices which are going to be individuals, people in this case, actually affects the networking itself? So simple case might be if I've got a salacious rumor, I'm going to ring up everybody I know and and tell them the rumor. I think Ryan Giggs is having an affair. This drives a lot of activity and if I've got nothing to say maybe I just stay home and I don't say anything. But it's actually worse than that, because it might be that I'm looking at a multidimensional thing, and if there are people who might share a lot in common with and agree with that, I'm highly likely to keep communicating with them suddenly. Find somebody who I don't agree with very much, and they've got very different different views to myself on a range of things. Maybe I don't want to talk to them and and cut off a so this idea that birds of a feather flock together have awfully is the term that's usually used small and large populations. But deterministic and stochastic process is I'm going to do a little bit of both in this talk, and there's a kind of general question that will increase the communication lead to more social instabilities or more rapid. Changes in these group properties like norms. There an awful lot of businesses, commercial businesses, as well as communication businesses and not this security areas that that want to know about such things. So in our group we work principally for the advertising and media sectors. 1/4 of all spending on advertising in the UK is now online digital and it's growing, so it may double in the next few years. It's bigger than television expenditure already. And nobody knows really what they're doing with that money, but they're insisting on spending it clearly. There's a security. Angle 222, all of this defense and security. We also work with energy companies. Very large project with with companies in those sectors and with telephone companies.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
New lamps for old Aladdin knew networks from old is what we're going to do today. So dynamical networks just as deserts talked about. We're going to exchange our old networks for a new network in a second in a minute in an hour in a day, whatever we choose and part of that is this continuous time issue.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So just think about stochastic evolving networks here. What I want to do. I want the individuals to have a kind of state variable, so there are N vertices. Think of them as N people and each person has a state variable, let's call it a vector X. In RM, it's a function of time and so big X can denote the entire states for all the population, it's just all the attributes for all of the people. Let's assume that the individuals are connected by an evolving network with adjacency matrix A, which is some function of time. And to make matters easy, I'm going to assume that each edge involves in dependently but actually edges can be conditionally dependent upon the same aspects of the current network, so edges can be correlated. It just means that when we simulate them or decide whether we can toss the coin in dependently and the edge independence assumption greatly reduces the complexity of the Markov model that does talked about. If I let Delta T be a small increment of time, then I really want the probability distribution for the for the adjacency matrix at a future time. Given that I know where it is at the current time, and if I use edge independence, it's enough to know the expected value of A at T plus Delta T that will have reels in it between Norton one, Whereas this is a binary matrix, it's it's currently known to me and and trivially their equivalent under this edge assumption. You can easily write the expected value in terms of distribution. But actually you can go the other way if you're allowed to just multiply the independent edges together, so living proof.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Inaction, OK, so a model for a stochastic network really wants to be something of the form. The expected value of the network at a future time, given its behavior. Current time is kind of just a modification of where it is at the moment. This is a binary network and F is some mapping which depends on a the current value of the network and also big X. The current value of all the States and this is going to be valid as Delta T tends to 0. This is where we want to go really. That being the case, then I if I if I wanted to generate this at time T plus Delta T, if I could calculate the right inside then I could wish around the edges and unsimulated and produce one particular path through this. Through this through this model. Well, we should have. F is something like it's. It's the birth and death rates and and so actually we've got a death rate which was Omega in the last slide. Could well be Omega again. I'd like to go from Alpha to Omega where Alpha the Sacred River ran through cavernous numberless to man. So we lose edges with a certain death rate, and we gain edges that aren't there with certain birth rate. This little circ here is the header module. Sure product and it just means that we've got a matrix of birth rates, which probably depends on a. So it could be nonlinearity. There probably depends on X, so there could be some coupling there and this says that we take the corresponding RJ term here and we multiply it by this thing. Bold one will always be the adjacency matrix for a clique, so that's everything there so. If that's the adjacency matrix safety, then one minus safety is the is the network of all the edges which are present in a. And we just heard how this works for the bistable evolving network switches to appear there. Actually in this example we're going to do something slightly different. We're going to assume that there's another function matrix valued function Phi, which is a monotonically decreasing function of the difference in state. So the edge term of Phi if the states are the same, it will be about 1. So in other words they are identical. If I will be one, and if they're not identical, so if this is bigger than some sort of up value epsilon, then five will get very close to 0. So what this means is that. If there's huge agreement between these people. The fallen in Love Actually their friendships never going to end at that point. Actually, if they don't know one another, but if they're very similar, they're very likely to meet 'cause they share similar interests and share similar views and things like that. So actually, this is the homophily term which says that the states of the individuals I&J controls the births and deaths of the edge. The edge to edge, and we could put some triadic closure in here. We could put, you know, we could put little Cirque with it Delta plus epsilon a ^2. That sort of thing. Let's keep it simple.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, in psychology there's a large literature on individuals having kind of tension equilibrium between process is. So if you think about people's behavior, perhaps to privacy, or maybe their sexual behaviors are better. Example that you're in a balance between your activational urges to take part and to go and do things on your inhibitions which says don't do that. It's not the norm and. Everybody's in a kind of equilibrium, and there's been a lot of work on activator inhibitor models, particularly with that interesting sort of normal. Behavior, so you could think of saying groups of students in University like Strathclyde and some of them might become very promiscuous while another group might become very prudish. And how's that going to work? Equally there might be a group of students at the University of Strathclyde where summer drinking a lot every night all of the time and other people are complete teetotalers and never go to the pub this whole time. So these are social norms and clearly you know they can divide in different ways. Now in applied maths, as soon as you mentioned the word activator inhibitor process is. If you don't think of the word Turing instability, you ought to be sent to hospital with a note. So, Turing instabilities actually kind of counterintuitive thing. It says if you have a whole load of identical processes. Which are all stable so they all go to the same stable rest point. If you couple them up with the activated variables coupled to the activator variables and the inhibitory variables coupled to the inhibitory variables, then actually if you do that wrong it's possible to generate patterns. There's a precursor of pattern formation in many areas of biology and the reason is that the inhibit inhibitory variables if they diffuse faster than the activational. Variables then, kind of if you get a little group of people that become excited and activated then they can't maintain an increase in their inhibitions because that just diffuses away. So it's quite a good model given the first conversation, because maybe we're all very good, communicated inhibitions. Don't do that. Don't behave like that. Maybe we're very good at communicating inhibitions, and maybe we're very secretive about armor, activation of villages, and we don't. So this is kind of a good model where you might think, well, actually on the same network. It's not true that we would diffuse these two types of variables together. Let's confuse ourselves with an example.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Turing instability, it doesn't really matter what the Turing model is it alive X dot is equal to F of X, some nonlinearity. And then here's the coupling terms, and there's a diffusion matrix with diagonal matrix D and the way this works is that if you linearize around some steady state, you get a little thing DF, which is an M by N matrix, and Lambda J is the JTAG and value of the Laplacian matrix associated with a. So it turns out there's an instability window, and if any, if you've got any eigenvalues. In a little window there you're going to get instability, and only if you've got all your eigenvalues outside of the window will this be stable and the patterns formed in here across the network or across the space, whatever it is you're doing, will reflect the eigenfunctions or eigenvalues corresponding to the eigenvalues of the plus, and for which we've got this kind of Turing instability. To short, two are entering instability.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Let's have a look at some examples. So the first one I'm going to talk about is actually a deterministic model. Let's remove the stochastics, because this is bad enough when we have a deterministic model and explain what we expect to happen. What happened here is that under under the homophily term, people will tend to come together and as they come together they will change and they try and sit at this equilibrium. But maybe we are unlucky. And some of the argument values associated with a slip into that region of instability. So then we get an instability. So the X is have to separate and go apart, and when we get that segmentation then some edges will be lost in the network and so we'll get a dip in connectivity and will form two or more communities. They then go through separate evolution because they are now in a stable situation, so they will go back to the rest point and once they get back to this point they could all start joining up again. And then they have to depart again.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Here's the simplest network that we could think of. This is joint work with Jaune Jonathan Ward, who's who's postdoc, so this is the schnackenberg dynamic. Doesn't matter what it is, there's an inhibition variable X1 and X2 at two different nodes. 61X2 IIS is here. The weight of the connection between person one and person two, so this is a two person network. It's a story of a relationship, this is. So two person network and if they are in agreement. If they agree about everything then this terms positive because this thing will be small. So then they they communicate more. But then if they communicate too much if he gets large then D1A and D2 A, they're constantly sharing their activation and if it's very urges and then they destabilized and they have to have a cooling off. When they separate out they don't talk to each other as much. But then they sort of both returned to normal and then they can reengage again so. If.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
You solve that. This is the inhibition of the male in the relationship and you can see that what's happening here is that he's becoming excited. Excited it's becoming inhibited. Inhibited in this bit he becomes. Uninhibited and almost a random sequence. Who takes the excited position and who takes the inhibited position?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Here I've superimposed the two partners and you can see when one goes one way one goes the other. They have a cooling off. Then they come back to the middle. They slightly overshoot each time when they come back. That's important as we see in a minute.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
This is the strength of the coupling, so one is full on, but then once they get full on, the Turing instability occurs and they have a cooling off. And then they build, rebuild the relationship and so on like that. OK, so this looks almost periodic, but the previous slide.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Ouch, this clearly some separation going on. And if we tried to predict which one of them will take the high ground and which one takes the low ground, we can't do that.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
This is a deterministic model, so we can we can graph in this case a versus X 1 -- X two in the average value and so what's happening is we're going up here as we formed the relationship with them fully committed to one another. We have a Turing instability. We can't reach the Pitchfork by vacated city States and we fall down. We turn communication off for a bit, and then we wind ran. This really odd place and then we go back up there so you can see. This looks like deterministic chaos.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Here I've just zoomed in on the winding round and shown as green and red lines and you can see this is what produces the lack of forecast ability. It's so sensitively dependent upon the conditions here we don't know when we get to the top, whether we're going to go to the right or to the left, but will inevitably go one way. They really would like to run this for much larger groups, but I'm just showing you that the problem exists even in very, very small groups. Once you have these full Cup.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Old systems. This is work done with Mark Parsons, which is in preparation. Here we're going to take a slightly different view, but bear in mind that if we put the stochastics back in, we've still got this fundamentally chaotic or sensitive dependence by the previous system. It has a positive Lyapunov exponent, and so maybe pass reasonable tests for doubters that it's genuinely chaotic. Here, what we're going to do is we're going to use the same model there, but now we're going to go back to this expected value model. That we had before answer. Mark Scott, there's my homophily term kicking in there controlling the differences between person. Ion Person J Controls the birth and death of the ijaaf edge Delta teaser. Small time step. So this is trivially easy to run now because I would introduce a Delta T as in the solver to solve the ODS. And I've already got one there. So this is just like a stochastic. Differential equation.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
We've done it with 100 of 4040 odd people here and I was showing some of these 40 people who periodically become an inhibited. While some of these are becoming periodically excited. So it's about the top 10 in the bottom 10, although they can always exchange. Actually, that's why I've shown you the extremes. If I showed you all of them there be some people ping pong in about just like the last definition. This gives us a problem because we'd like to talk about what's happening to the network, except we've got N people, so we've got N ^2 /, 2 edges roughly. Can't draw those so.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
What we can do is we can project the network on two different projections. So here I've shown a projection onto the clique that's like just counting the number of edges in some sense, I take the projection of any adjacency matrix and just multiply it termwise by the adjacency matrix belongs to the clique, and then for the rest of it. What we did is we did a kind of principle, component analysis, Goodall singular value decomposition. It'll give us, uh, another projection which is orthogonal to this one, and so and it's optimal in the sense that I can put as much energy. As I can on this second projection and so then when I yeah. Connected randomly it's evolving overtime so we start off with him and we start. Yeah, we start off with complete random thing and then we actually throw away the burning. Thanks with all these graphs I've thrown away and burning. So that I can get close to the attractor. That's that's that's then it's just evolving. So here we see and this is a network with just 40 things and this is this projection versus that projection and it goes round. This way you can see that there's a kind of cyclic nature of the entire network, and this is kind of like principle component analysis for. An evolving network really struggling a bit with this. I kinda quite like this but I don't think really non scientists really understand this at all, but we need some way to compare these sorts of network dynamics. And of course this is all down to some crafty choices of these schnackenberg. Dynamics, but there's nothing special about dynamics. Reason we could use any activator inhibitor system and there would be parameter ranges where we saw this sort of thing. So the state of the vertices is affecting the connectivity of the network and the connectivity of the network affects the state of the vertices through diffusion voters influence, and as you can see, D1 is much larger than D2, so we're communicating much better at communicating hundreds of times better at communicating our inhibitions than we are. Are excited.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Just so next step would be really to take the deterministic system too much larger cases and see whether there's any value in pursuing that as opposed to the full stochastic model. Would like to add that nonlinear network Dynamics Triad closure stratification. That's kind of quite interesting where you've got, say. A company with different levels in the hierarchy, or think of the army with officers and men kind of thing. And clearly I've broken the symmetry at that point. So actually my mean field can't be just an address revenue graph, it has to be a sort of block graph and and so there's some funding games you played. This is behavioral phenomena, and it's sort of determined in the area. We have cabs, a Center for applied behavioral Sciences, which is a mixture of maths and psychology and behavioral economics were interested in applications in security. We talking to other parts of the government. As you can imagine about all sorts of things to do with such evolving networks. And of course the people, particularly in commercial areas, advertising media or all interested in that sort of thing. And these are the lucky people who paid for all this hard. On high quality work, thank you.
