So today I'm going to talk about implementing the wisdom of the crowd. But what you do find out very fast is that they're trying to game the system. So why is all this interesting? Why is it interesting to me? So in this talk I'm going to. We never thought of God to write it up, but here is sort of the gust of ideas. Let's think about life. OK. So what could be a research agenda here? Each action has a fixed but unknown reward. We are going to do it in a Bayesian setting. We will have a prior over the rewards. Each agent will get a single chance to select an action and get the reward of the action that is selected. So the planner really controls the information and you would like to maximize the expected some of payoff. So, so in the sense the agents, when they come to make their decision, their decision is based also on the plane of policy on how to give the recommendation, and the goal is. To maximize the sum of the payoff, this is the plan or goal, right? I'm going to derive an optimal policy. The exact optimal policy, and in addition to being exactly optimal, it will also had good performance in the sense that the total regret that you and care is only constant depends on the prior, and there's no dependent on the number of agents that show up. So this is information cascading. If you months ago and what it does is a real time navigation recommendation. And it's based on real time information that it gets from other user. From time to time they need to send people on route routes that we have no idea whether they are good or bad. If we don't give any information, everyone is going to do the better or your reaction. Still unclaimed, it's very easy to see, will have limited exploration. Leaves is what I want to talk today, so I would like to talk about agents with need to select between a few alternative fuel ternative's could be hotels like in the TripAdvisor case, traffic routes like in the ways example doctors like in report cards. So this is sort of the issue. So if you are driving every day from work to home, you have a very good prior. Action one or Action 2 and it will generally explore low values before- in. And then in which case we will be recommending the better action. What happens is the planner can simply run the optimal policy. It's going to be the same optimal policy. OK. And what happens is this player is going to subsidize some of the exploration of the second agent. For the optimal policy 443 actions, I'm not sure even how it looks like, but what we can do we can sort of get in approximation, right? So namely, the only exploration in the optimal policy, the only expression that you will get is from the second agent. Conclude, OK, So what I discovered discovered an optimal policy in a very limited in a very specific setting. So the main research question that I would sort of schedule days. How does the optimal Planner policy should look like? I doubt if I do it at the end. He would like to induce exploration. He would like that at the end to guarantee that everyone is doing the better alternative. So what is very great of the optimal policy in this setting? Bandit is a very simple decision theoretic model. We have multiple independent action and we have the real uncertainties regarding the reward. And the main focus is with tradeoff between the exploration and exploitation. There is a Bayesian sighting in which we assume it prior over rewards and given the power of the rewards there are optimal algorithm like the Gittins index for the discounted return there is that your serial setting in which we are all interested in worst case bounds. Worst case with would hold true for any reward sequence that we're going to observe. So in the classical setting, the wave and certainty regarding rewards, right?