Feature selection in the context of the text classification. And there exists a multitude of different feature ranking schemes. There are on average even fewer. Each of them is really a binary classification problem of its own, and we can obtain different feature rankings for each of these categories and. And so makes it kind of firstly makes it easier to compare average performance across categories and also might give you. Instead of choosing the best number of features for each category, we might try to simplify things and fix the same number of features for all categories, but if the best number of features varies so much from one category to another, then maybe it might be a better idea to fix a constant level of sparsity and use that for each category, which will then allow us to use a different level, a different number of features for each category, because it will adapt to the distributions. Just for comparison, we have the results which we would obtain if we selected the best number of features or the best sparsity is equivalent anyway separately for each category, and then average that over categories. It has very direct connection with memory and CPU time consumption, unlike the number of features perhaps and we try to use it as a set of criteria and we saw that although it's not really much better, it's also not any worse than using the number of features. So our hope is that we would be able to characterize the feature ranking schemes in terms of other characteristics besides just sparsity curves. It would be. Damn right, you don't have the you don't have this transition is the same like most common words, yes, I mean it, it doesn't have this. And for example in the case of odds ratio at the end you have all the words which are common. Well I haven't really checked that, but sort of my if you look at the information gain curves for example, we saw that the best F1 is the relatively smaller number of features and. Here's just an overview of the of the feature weighting schemes that I'll be I'll be looking at in this talk. So most of these are were more or less well known things. So for example, here we have the. If it doesn't have any effect on the predictions, and apparently the learning algorithm didn't really find it useful for predicting the class, so it's probably not important for learning killer. It might often be a good idea to use just a subset of the documents of the full training set to train this model, and then we can still use the weights of that model to rank the features sent. So as I mentioned on the 1st slide we will define sparsity as the average number of different words per document after we perform some feature selection. So basically, this curve would tell us how quickly the average number of nonzero components in our documents grows as we add more and more features from a particular ranking. Here's this, so this comparison of sparsity curves. Here in the horizontal axis we have the number of features and on the vertical axis we have this concept of sparsity. Have a sort of which which appear in some positive documents, but in no or almost no negative documents. Our another way in which we can use sparsity is when comparing different feature rankings. So when people compare different feature rankings, they often use the number of features is the independent variable. For example the F1 measure or whatever?