[0.0s - 29.0s]
Whenever I'm introduced, I don't quite recognize the person that's being introduced because times move on and the story goes on. I was told by dire that you are the core group. We have a few special interest groups I'm talking to during the next of the week. So because you are the core group, I'm going to give you the whole story and the whole story actually is in six books rather than one, so it's a big story so. I have two apologies. The 1st that I'm speaking in English. I'm sorry I'm not speaking in your own language. It's such a beautiful language and my second apology is that I will move quite fast because being the core group I want to cover. The whole ground. The slides are available, obviously electronically. It's in two parts and the first part I'll move the quickest because the first part is the background and the second part gets into integral economics. I should say that my my life, my passion, I'm an African. I have a second name which is someone younger, so Ronnie is my Austrian name. My mother was Austrian, my father was Russian and someone younger is my African name. My real home is in Zimbabwe. But I live in the UK and our office is on Geneva so I'm naturally inclined to different cultures and countries. We always work with two feet. 1 foot is if you if you like in our own international ground and the other foot is in the local ground. The only book I could find on self management is by Vanic, whose check not Slovenian written in 1975. Nineteen 71. You don't find much nowadays about self management. But at least I got to know about self management through venich. OK, always local and global. This is the journey I'm going to take us through from call to context to Co creation to contribution. We call it our foresees. I should say that my particular passion is about the transformation of the whole world of education and universities. We believe that in particular universities should be the catalyst for the transformation of societies. Anybody here connected with the University? Anybody in some way or another? I'm sure some of us are. And I should say, by way of background, before I start with the formal agenda, we are attached to a South African University. It's called the Davinci Institute and it is what is called a mode to University. IMO, 2 University sees itself as part of a knowledge network. It's not a conventional University as part of a knowledge network and the whole journey I'm going to take you through needs to involve educational research institutions, otherwise we believe. It cannot work. It cannot work just by setting new policy's, because it's too far reaching. To succeed without what we would call social innovation. So we are in a. And in an integral social innovation journey.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
We all recognize, as you recognize in your introduction, that we have problems, right? The state of the European economy is not the way we would like it to be, but we could either sit in a state of despair or in a state of hope. And of course, we choose hope, and in particular in Slovenia. We choose hope because we see Slovenia as a place which can help give birth to a new kind of Europe in a new kind of world, because there the old World just is not working. We all know that, OK?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
No, I choose to start close to home with Jaroslav Anick and quoting from his book on the participatory economy, which draws extensively on. Self managing self management. The damaging effects of capitalism on human personality, which they have called he is called a lack of integrality integral. Integrality have their analog in the Soviet system instead of such incompleteness. In other words, the system was incomplete. We aim for integrality our whole work my life journey over 45 years is to find a form of integral economy which reflects our humanity. And if you like in your context, our nature and humanity, and basically that is what is integrality? The interval economy reflects and represents the totality of what it is to be a human being. And because my first 2 degrees are in economics and classical economics, I know how classical economics has very little to do with that.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Now, here's another quote from a book I just read yesterday. I was lucky enough to find which is a book called Austerity. I think we all know living in Slovenia today about austerity. And here's a small quote from this Scotsman living in America is an academically called Austerity. The history of a dangerous idea. Why did Germany become the refuge for his terati that's his basic thesis that the whole notion of austerities, although it has Anglo Saxon associations near liberalism, its heartlands in the Post War era, was in Germany, in German, Ordoliberalism and Germany saw the role of the status setting the framework conditions for competitive markets to operate efficiently. OK, and that's the backdrop to austerity. And now Germany, once the whole of the European Union to become more German, we all recognize that that I'm saying that as a plus and a minus, the plus is the very fact that German is so successfully successful economically is because its economy represents itself, right? Its institutions embody the German people, and therefore that makes it integrally successful. But you can't expect the French. the Italians Slovenians the British to be German, OK, and in a sense this is a readout of the world. Because this is the Washington consensus, this is the tawker they all expect us to be like them, and I grew up in Zimbabwe next to Black Africans. That's why my name is Simon Yunga. And I didn't want to be like those white guys, even though I've got a white skin. I lived in Africa and you live in Slovenia and we are particular people and our whole integral model is about how you release the genius of a particular society. So this is German genius. It's not my genius. It's not your genius. And integrally we have to find our genius.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
OK, so this is the kind of best wherein I'm a very scholarly type of person. I read three to five books every week and therefore these are the kind of things which tell us about the mess that we are in the death of aid. The white man's burden, the crisis of global gap, capitalism. There you have it and these are all pretty famous people, right? Writing about these things today, so you look at all these books and you feel in a state of despair. You want to scream right as we have there at the top but of.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Course there's hope. And here we have a volume of literature. I'm sure much of which you people are familiar with, particularly with your green credentials about the green economy, about cradle to cradle, new economics foundation, the World Social Forum, and new science ecensus sustainability profits with principles and so on and so on and so on. So there is a movement afoot. The world is changing. It's not changing fast enough, but there is a kind of. Counteraction to what we saw before an from what I hear from Dayananda and others. The people around this table are certainly part of this movement as we would hope that we are.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
No, this is the key. If you like to our argument, I'm a musician. My children are both musicians and as a classical musician, I'm also passionate bar jazz about folk music, about Indian music. About marimba music. In about world music and in music. There a multiplicity of different forms, but somehow a mankind has had that ingenious to invent two economic systems and say that there's nothing else in the world except. Alism in communism. And of course, with the so-called demise of communism. There's only one left. I mean what it does us the story and what nonsense. As an academic and a musician, I can't help but saying this is absolute nonsense. What a crazy world. No, instead of. Then inventing 17 different forms of economy, as you're going to see, we said, well, let's start with four. Let's make life simpler and say, rather than two or what in 1/2. Therefore, and you can see that on the top and the bottom there little shades of potential of a green economy of a participatory economy that comes from different parts of the world. Our mantra, our great hope is that every SoC. On this earth can produce its own form of economy. Of course, in Association with others we can't do anything on our own, but each of US, Zimbabwe, the country that I come from, I'm pleased to say we are creating a newly integral form of economy in Zimbabwe. And we have a group of people on our Masters and doctoral program. Her doing just that. So it doesn't matter who comes in in the next election. I'm sure you've all heard of Swonger I and Robert Mugabe. It really doesn't matter too much. What really matters is these 3040 people working with us like the 3040 people around this table. What you choose to Co create what kind of integral economy you choose to Co create and you will see later on a test capes of two people who originally joined our Masters program and Transformation management five years ago, and their people were starving. One of them was the son of the chief, and he came from a rural community and his people were starving. Now 300,000 people are growing their own food. And they've become a model for the rest of the country. Because two people. On a transformative education program, decided they want to create something which has something to do with who they are. Not with what the World Bank tells them they should be. Or the London School of Economics or Harvard Business School for that matter. I've experienced the worst I was at Harvard and I was at London School of Economics. And of course they're great institutions, but they believe everybody should be like them. And I'm afraid. That's not for me.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So on the right hand side you have if you like the music, the keynotes. Of where we're coming from, where we are saying that if you like their four fundamental constituents of a SoC nature and Community, culture and spirituality, science and technology finance enterprise, and we sometimes add politics in there and at the core of a SoC is religion and humanity, and that basically is the basis for the integral economy. And if you like our rhythm, our music, our mantra. Our Beethoven's fifth actually starts down in the South. We say you don't start with politics or economics or even science and technology. That's the wrong place to start for an integral economy. You start with nature and community. And you then move into culture and spirituality. An out of your nature and community in your culture and spirituality. You Co. Create your own integral economy and the beauty is that every SoC on this earth, whether it's Zimbabwe or Slovenia, has its own nature and community and has its own culture and spirituality. When we move on to the in quotes North and West. It's generally no longer our own. If we are United States of America, if we are Germany, we have our own science and technology. And if we are America or Germany, or perhaps China, today we have our own financing the enterprise. But where I came from in Zimbabwe? And I reckon where you come in from in Slovenia, you're probably finding that you're finance and enterprise. Is not really your own. If you read Mark Clive on Finance and Enterprise, he talks about the rebel countries. You know that's Romanian, Bulgarian, Latvian, lithuanian's. Are there local banks as you well know, 100% have been taken over. They're not their own anymore. So if you start from there, if you start with economics and politics. You'll never become yourself. But I'm talking to people who know that already because of your credentials around this room. But the world doesn't know that. Main speaker is still politics and economics and that's why we get things dreadfully wrong. And I know I'm afraid from personal experience because I come from the land of Robert Mugabe. Where politics speaks, economics follows in nature and community well. We've got some beautiful months. And if you've ever met an African shaman, you know they're amazing people, but that's got nothing much to do with anything. Really. That's my culture you're talking about. No.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Talking about culture, I just read another book by an amazing Czech economist. Anybody heard of Thomas Sedlacek he's chief economist of the biggest bank in Czech Republic. And he wrote a play, a best selling play on economics of good and evil. This is what Sedlacek says. Even the economy needs to take care of its soul found in nature, culture, philosophy, theology, anthropology as well as mass, psychology, sociology and economics. I find that this part of Europe I'm a great student. As much as I can be because you never in one lifetime will get to know every SoC. But I find in Central Europe this kind of area amazing philosophers. Amazingly rich culture living in the Anglo Saxon world. I recognize the difference because you know the Anglo Saxon world. Economics and trade comes first. That's the whole EU story. You know we want to. We want to trade but not much else. Because culture is not at the center of our being in Central Europe, it's much more so, so it's incredibly important that culture and nature's at the center of your economic being.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So when I read your. Slovenian industrial policy. Of course, I was looking for. Where is nature? Where is culture and to some extent I was very pleased because. You can certainly see I picked out one of the key statements that supporting entrepreneurship and innovation, developing promising industrial technological areas that correspond to social challenges. That's a very good thing to say, and that restructures existing industries energetically as well as socially, leading to long lasting opportunities. Drawing on knowledge integrated internationally. So certainly in knowledge, certainly energy, certainly nature's there. Culture I don't know so much. But this isn't by any means that criticism of Slovenia as little as I know, Slovenia. This is a criticism of the world. By and large, in the world culture has been obliterated from economics. Except for the fact that implicitly not explicitly Anglo Saxon culture stroke. Now, German culture has dominated economics and industry. Now I know we say the up and coming nations are India and China, but having taught at business schools in India and China, they've got nothing to do with India and China. It's all invented in America. Every single Chinese Business School. Is American 'cause the people are Chinese but? They teach American business scooties. So you know, we're very uneasy about this notion. People say yes, but now it's India and China were practically speaking, yes, but theoretically, American culture, stroke economics, and perhaps German as well. It used to be Japanese, not anymore rules the world. So argument is, well, we need to uncover what our culture is and not leave it to the art gallery's in the museums. But find a way to thread it into our integral economy, which implicitly the Anglo Saxons have done for the last three. Centuries those of us who know Adam Smith. Part of Scottish culture. Who's the Slovenian Adam Smith?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
OK, this is the big story you've been patient with me up to novices being kind of background and now I'm going to kind of signal what integral economics is basically about on this one slide. It's a big slide I'm afraid because it's a big story. So if we go from. Left to right, what we are saying is that integral economics draws on. If you like the whole of the world, the southeast, North, and West, recognizing that every SoC on this Earth has northerners, Southerners, Easterners, and Westerners in it, and will say a little more as we go. What we mean by southeast, North, and West, because we also mean that as geographical entities, Southeast, North and West have some significance in the world, but they also exist within our society. Slovenia has its own southeast, North and West. OK, for as a short term for South read Nature and Community for E Street culture and spirituality for North read Science and technology and for West Politics economics. So that's the one side of the integral. What we call the integral realities. So integral economics draws on multiple realities. It is the exact opposite of the Anglo Saxon mainstream which draws on one reality, the western reality and Germany comes along and combines it with the northern reality. But the South and the East has nothing to say. It's silent. It has no voice. It has to hide under the table. So it trickle economics draws on multiple realities. Firstly, and Secondly it has an integral rhythm. The rhythm grounding emerging navigation affecting is the way we release genius in a particular SoC GENEIUS OK. And you release genius by starting with a grounding. And naturally, and Community oriented economic grounding drawing on ecological and social embeddedness. Well, so far so good in Slovenia? Because we read a lot of that in your. In your sipz OK and people around this table. But that's only the starting point. So the next port of call what we call emergence is based on fusing the local and the global, the local and the global. The self and the other remember we always have a psychological backdrop. When I was a young man of 17, although I went off to study economics, I told my parents I wanted to study industrial psychology and they took me to see the Minister of Finance in Zimbabwe at the time who said psychology is for backroom boys young lesson. You go to Business School, saw dutifully went to Business School, but I never forgot my interest in psychology. An culture, So what we say is that in order to draw an link self and other is as much a psychological process as the economic process. You have to key into where the other is coming from. Key into where you are coming from and find a way of fusing the two. And coming from a colonized country in Africa, I all I know all about the opposite. 'cause the colonized had had no interest in where I as a black African was coming. And besides, I had a white skin, So what am I talking about? But inside me lives a black soul. And nobody was interested, because in Britain or in America, or in Germany. Or in China. What is this Slovenia? I don't speak your language anyway. Beautiful mountains. But there's more to a Slovenian than a beautiful mountain. OK, so the second point, which is a very tough one, which is the key to emergence is this link between self and other between local and global to further evolve your particular economy. So some kind of Fusion between Slovenian, German, American, Chinese, Japanese. So. And this has huge implications for education and learning what we call navigation is on the one hand, the process of conceptualisation. How you form theories. Like theories of economics and then on the other hand, it's the key to institution building. One of my great African philosophers's name isn't Angie said that if you don't build your own theories, you don't build your own institutions. You will borrow other people's institutions and they will be imposed on you. And frankly, that happened to me in Zimbabwe all the time. So navigation comes after grounding and emergence. First you ground yourself in your own soils. Then in a sense evolved by marrying local global self other and then you say so. Who are we an, what institutions we build and what our own theories and what is our own economics? It's a subtle process, and then of course we put it to effect apply the navigational framework micro and macro. And the micro leading to the macro. So of course it sounds very simple. I've left out, of course the synergising. That's the full genius Synergizing. The moral inspiration with the universal truth again. What inspires us as a people in Slovenia? Is it secular? Is it religious? Is that nature? What is it? Adam Smith knew all about it. That's why he wrote his book on the theory of Moral Sentiments. You know, he wrote two books, the Wealth of nations which most people know and the theory of moral sentence. His theory of moral sentiments drew on Scottish Protestant moral sentiments. He knew what he was talking about. The new way was coming from. And that's you know, inspired economics for 200 years. But we're not all Scottish Protestant. I'm not. I don't know whether you are anybody. Scottish, Protestant in this room. Not many, not many, so of course, classical economics doesn't have much to say to us. It has something, it's the other, but not too much. OK, so this is the totality of the release of genius, and because it is a very subtle process. That is why we argue that mode to type universities or say, knowledge networks. Need to thoroughly engage. And that's the very reason, arguing practically why our main activity besides being invited by Dyadya, thankfully to Sylvania, is running doctoral programs. Why? Because on doctoral programs, all of our doctoral people are part time practitioners, average age, 40s. It takes four to five years. And wow, in four to five years working with people from all different sectors who are impassioned to do something for their society. You can engage in this journey together, so I'm not saying everybody here does a doctorate. I'm sure most of you already has doctors. What I am saying is that any serious process of agreeing integral Slovenian economies somehow needs to Co engage with some research network where people over three to four years or working on coevolving. The Green integral civilian economy together with what we call stewards like yourself, right? It's not a one shot process, but I guess that's obvious the only trouble is that the way the world works, you know we like to say, well, we'll in someone younger and. I'm a bit too humble to say that that sort of thing can work unless there's that serious engagement. Now at the end of it, you now see the full economic forms. That to us are further evolution after capitalism and communism. Our argument is people say, and it's not entirely true that communism is dead. In fact, there's never been a greater interest in Karl Marx than there is today, so that's not entirely true. Better in some senses. That's what people say. But we argue capitalism is dead as well. It's just not as well recognized, but what else is this current crisis about? Unfortunately, by now, there's enough literature for years ago. In 2008, people would say Ronnie lesson, what are you talking about? Sub lipan? OK, it's greedy bankers. Is this and that not enough regulation but come on. No, if you're a reader and you get the literature, there's so many people arguing that this is a symptom of a much bigger cause and you don't need Karl Marx to tell you then because he was half right, he was half wrong. OK, but now there are many, many people, so we're saying, well, that's one thing to say that. So if both of them are dead, but what on Earth do I do? And we say OK, stop with the self sufficient economy. We are arguing that the 300,000 people growing their own food in Zimbabwe today. And we hope in five years time it'll be 3 million. Our population of 12 million. This is the basis for the renewal of the Zimbabwean economy. Now for self sufficiency in Slovenia, you're probably not talking of some kind of barter economy, but I'm sure you're all familiar with complementary currencies. How many of us have come across alternative complementary currencies just out of interest? 1234 yeah, sorry. Everybody nowadays is talking of complementary currencies. We have a new alliance with the University in the UK, in Liverpool and in fact the guy who's heading up the program there to create a new currency. For Liverpool's on our next doctoral program. So we will be working very closely with them and they are creating the skull spammed right? That's the latest evolution in Liverpool, so complementary currencies are an example of what we would call that a part of a self sufficient economy which wasn't relying on conventional money, right? And Liverpool are said this is where we want to start, right? So this isn't just something for Zimbabwe and as you know in Switzerland via. If you're anybody heard of ear, the amazing company, the bank which is all built on complementary currencies, right? So this is one way to go and certainly for the developing world this is huge. For Slovenia it's apart but not perhaps huge. Self sufficient economy draws mainly on nature and community. The developmental economy draws mainly on culture. And the example we give all of these we back up with examples we don't believe in theory unless we can back it up with practice that we are personally engaged with. For us, it has to be practiced that we personally engaged with. Otherwise there's something happening there. And who knows? So we are very closely involved with Salvo DIA in Sri Lanka. Which operates in 50,000 villages in Sri Lanka and developed a whole believe it political and economic system in Sri Lanka based on Buddhist culture. And spirituality, so they are kind of test case of how you can draw on your own local culture and spirituality and build a new kind of economy. We have a micro example of that in Egypt with second right will come to them later. Now the social economy is probably the closest to where Slovenia is there. But we argue that all of these economies should be part of an integral economy. The social knowledge based economy. So if we go back to that statement from your. SIPU will recognize a lot about the social economy and economy geared towards social needs, building on knowledge. Is what we reckon to be the emerging if you like northern economy. The living economy which we label Weston's a bit of an odd one because you might say there's nothing to do with the West now. The logic of integral economics. Is. Wait for it because to ask this as huge significance, the West must build on the rest. You know the saying. The rest follows the West. So you could say, think Global Act local. We say the opposite. The West must build on the rest and we say feel local. Act global feel Slovenian. At Global and in between you into it self another you know. Local and global. We reverse the conventional logic. OK, so the living economy is in a sense, instances where the West is building on the wrist and there are in America in particular. Significant examples of. What is called living economics or the new economics which is based on nature and that's why we actually positioned it in in the West? Because there are significant examples. Of course in America it's a tiny tiny approach. Proportion of America. Bradley as you know, the Americans are very good at theorizing what they're practicing. This is part of the American genius in the economic realm. There very good, much better than my country members who are pretty bad at it, right? the Americans are pretty good at theorizing around what's emerging. And there's a lots of literature emerging on the new economics natural capitalism. We know Paul Hawkins work and Lovins on natural capitalism big in America. There's an amazing American philosopher who we only recently discovered by the name of Eisenstein. Got a good name? If I had the name Eisenstein, I'd hold onto time. And he's he's written a book on the Sacred economy. Absolutely phenomenal, which is very much around living economics based based on nature. He argues, the more money you have, the poorer you are well, but he's very sophisticated. Sounds very glib, right? What he means by that? OK, so we're saying these are four economic forms, and just to anticipate what comes later. Argument is if you look at the economy as a whole in Slovenia. In China, in America, in Germany you won't find this. You won't find a living economy. You won't find a social economy. However, there are what we call Mesa Enterprise. You know Mesa in between micro and macro. They're messy enterprise, all of which we are very closely involved with. I've already mentioned Sarvodaya as well for the social economy, mondragone, we're very closely involved with Mondragon in the bus country. For the Living economy interface in the US, anybody come across interface OK? Remarkable company. Ray Anderson was the leading figure with the Spear in his chest hair. Paul Hawken was the theorist, an example and the self sufficient economy. Our own chanika in Zimbabwe. So in each of these cases 300,000 people isn't tiny. It's not a microenterprise, but it's not the whole of Zimbabwe and we are saying there are these Mesa enterprises around the world. We work very closely with five or six of them. We already showed the seeds of the newly emerging economy. You can't start up here. You have to start somewhere in the middle. You know what my Japanese colleague Nanaka called middle up down. And there we find it. And then we have to consciously build an there where I come back to my mode to University. How do you consciously build on the server DIA on a second or the Slovenian equivalent? By saying let's do it. Or by writing a policy paper. Well, that has a role to play both ever on to play one. People who feel let's do it and you need policy papers. But if there's a not an ongoing process of research and development. Which is what good universities stroke research institutes are supposed to do? How on earth are you going to get there? So that's why we say that's we're in the business of coming from a business background. We're in the business of research and development, except it's kind of socio not. Techno research and develop. Any? I've. Talk for 40 minutes or so. Let's have a bit of two way at this point. I know we've got sort of questions later, but I believe in breathing in and breathing out and a lot of breathing out. So let's just have 5 minutes or so. 2 bit of digestion. Any thoughts or comments at this point? What's really fascinating is this sort of. If you want technocratic outlook, I apologize for the world because you said if I may quote you every society in the world can create its own economy and this is marvelous, especially if you say in the cooperation with others. But if you take a broad systemic outlook, actually we all must live in this integral world global world. So it means that each society must be successful in the sense that we must. Not compete, but to exist in this world. So if you are running financial deficit with our model, it's no good. I mean we're not isolated in an island when we can eat coconuts or whatever. So I would like you to comment on this. Yeah, this interconnection between various models which must be efficient to a certain degree. Thank you very good question. In fact, could I ask? And then I'm going to answer. Could you flip to the next one? I'm not going to go to my next presentation if you wouldn't mind, just. Getting onto my next one now. OK, thanks for the excellent question. The first thing that I'd like to say is that. But the one thing we believe very strongly, as we have to unpack local and global and in terms of global talk about if you like different others for example, and if you read about the dynamics of the German economy, it's quite obvious that they have linked very powerfully what we call the North and the West. I mean, the Germans are very northern people. Structural, saribal, systematic. But if you take ordoliberalism the very term ordoliberalism audouin liberalism. Is a marriage of the North and the West that to me is more helpful than just saying local and global, you know. So who do we need to really pair up with? Because we can't do it all on our own, so that's that's the first thing I will add a rider to that which is a bit problematic. But because my partner, my. Work partners German is something we discuss a lot. Germany also has an eastern cited. My partner embodies a lot of that. He's a very spiritual person more than I am. We discussed that lot near writes poetry and he meditates, and so on. Germany has not included that eastern part of it in its economy. To the cost of us all, as well as to the cost of Germany and dare I say this is a provocative statement. I think that's one of the reasons for the outburst of Nazism, because Germany denied a part of itself and look what happened. So what I'm saying is that firstly we need to think of marrying up with some other. You're quite right, you can't do it on your own. So does Slovenia adopt an Anglo Saxon approach together with your own Slovenian one or an American one? Or the Japanese one that? The way it used to be. Or German or whatever. That's number one. And we need to do that purposefully. You're quite right. We can't just act on it. Now. Here comes the second point. You talk about deficits. Well, I would encourage all of you to read Mark Blyth's book on austerity. I've done a summary if you want a shorthand, I'm happy to send you a 20 page version where he beautifully and eloquently argues that austerity has never ever worked in history. Never, ever. It's all ideological. OK, so when you talk about deficits. My argument is, and that's the second argument. The first is we need to be selective about who we pair up with. My second argument is we need to be knowledgeable. We need to know and you know it's not only Mark. Blyth is a very scholarly guy. But we need to know such works so when we're dealing with the EU or the World Bank or whatever, it just said, well, you know, not only have I read Mark Blyth, but I've got my own economic unit in my University of part of my policy division and I know as a fact that austerity has never ever worked. And I know my fax because I've studied these things and I've got a whole departmental team because they might say who are you write whole departmental team working on that. Now let's go from here. Well, you might be half right. You might be half wrong. Well, he then goes to actually say that Iceland was much more successful because they didn't go down the normal austerity route. They basically closed down their banks, right? They didn't bailed out the banks. So the second point I'm saying is that in in a world where things are tough and are difficult, we can't just sit there and say nonsense. We follow the integral route we need to be very knowledgeable about these dynamic dynamics. We need to know people have read about these things. We need to have research units. Why did it take Mark Blyth living in America to be the most eloquent analyst of what's happening with austerity, which is frankly affecting today Europe more than anybody else? And I would add in the last 10 years is the reason for my Robert Mugabe. If you read the dynamics of what happened in Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe switched. Psychologically, I'm a psychoanalyst of Robert Mugabe because this phenomenon is so important for me and I followed his own life and his journey. He absolutely switched. After the Structural Adjustment Program in Zimbabwe. And for ASAP read austerity. But they were nose above wins at the time studying this phenomenon. So this would be by two if you like cautions to say ignore the world and you're quite right. You can't sort of align very successfully with those kinds of. Models approaches which you feel enhance your own. Know about what's wrong with the current dynamics. Also know about why the EU economically is dominated by Germany. It's not only because practically Germany is the most successful economy, it's because Germany spent 40 years developing order liberalism and you can read Walter, you can. Founding father of order liberalism and then systematically put it into effect. So my argument to the EU, I don't have the advantage or disadvantage of sitting down to the EU at this point, as Slovenia is to say, let's actually look at what is the Slovenian equivalent of order liberalism. And if we don't know yet, let's separate set up a research unit to discover what it is. Sorry, that's a long answer, but it's such an important question. And and I haven't answered it properly either. I'm sure there there more. In any other. OK. Just a remark, you mentioned that. So what is needed in the 1st place is transformation of education at universities. And as I was in the contact with universities about half a century, I would say yeah, it is important. But it's extremely difficult to put big changes. I find that the lower you get the. Not easier, but more somehow more realistic to bring changes, but at the level of universities, it's so much specialization and other factors that. Some people say to move a University is like to move a Cemetery and in a way it is true. You're absolutely right. So where do we go from there? Well, firstly, I should say to be honest. It took us 15 years to find Davinci Institute in South Africa and I've worked with universities in Europe, America, Asia all over the world and there pretty much as you say. So firstly you need to know what you're looking for and because we knew what we're looking for, we found Davinci Institute in South Africa Secondly. We need to be aware of dynamics. The Mode 2 University the biggest champion for the mode to University, the Motu University is about knowledge networks rather than ivory towers. Wait for it is a woman by the name of Helga Novotney. Anybody heard of now covered of novotney science in society? Who is an Austrian on your borders? And is currently president of the European Research Council. So you know, look around and find that there can be allies and important places who innocence are champions of a different kind of years. University. Having said that, there are very few mode two universities in the world despite alga Novotney. But we need to have in mind that there are models out there started 1994 President Mandela in South Africa created Davinci Institute. President Mandela said I want a new kind of University for my country and he teamed up with a fellow called Roy Marcus. And together they created Davinci Institute, so that's the second thing. The third thing is the pragmatic, which is, as you say, you will never turn around a University, so you stopped. You know you go to the vice Chancellor. You have to find people at the transformative edge of universities. Who then team up with other transformative people in other parts of the Knowledge Network? So it has to be, in a sense more pragmatic and subtle. It has to be based on knowledge, you know the mode to University is there for the taking. The president of the European Research Council and I bet you I've met Helga. I bet you she sits there saying I wish there were more mode to universities like I've written about, but nobody wants to except in South Africa. So someday from Slovenia says, I've read your book on rethinking science. You're absolutely right, we want to build an integral economy. We know that there's an institution that Nelson Mandela, the most respected politician in the world, still today is created. We want to do something like that the Slovenian way. Because you're quite right, if you do it, the conventional go and talk to the President of the University and the head of the demon. That doesn't work, but I'm sure around this room we have that kind of network who could? Take this matter forward. My name is Andre Clement. I used to be like before, very short period at the University. But as you mentioned, you need a kind of political authority. That is, it has a capacity. To see the change. And I don't see any kind of this personality in this country. VII am short cycling, but what we're lacking is that indeed. For 20 years of copy pasting of the Brussels directives and. Let's say American way of science. We are living in an. In political terms, intellectual deserts in a in a vacuum. And I believe that any kind of attempt of establishing, let's say. University that would also fit to all the standards and criteria and everything which would be just administrative bureaucratic sense. It Slovenia will not workout. What we indeed need is to create a new or improved a new network of knowledge instead of account, let's say newforma University. And I believe there are many people like myself in the NGO sector or in the civil society sector or in a social economy sector who has the capacity of both taking out new concepts, conceptualizing what is happening in the country. And starting to build up new kind of models. But in the same way you have to find the new sources of financing, because what is going now everything depends more or less on EU financing and this is getting more and more competitive. Bio Cratic and it leads. It doesn't give you any any freedom anymore to make any kind of experiment of to try to adapt to your local circumstances and integrate your local experience culture with some global trends. Yeah, this would be my comment. OK so two thoughts on that and then I'll return to the presentation. The one is absolutely stop from where you are and if the real vibrant knowledge network is here, that's where you stopped. So 100% right? In terms of the you you also bureaucracies sale and also 100% right, but I would add two things. The one is because I do believe that the kind of thing we're talking bout needs long-term purposeful endeavor. There's no reason why your knowledge network shouldn't team up with, let's say, doctoral students of the kind I'm talking about. Who attached to a University like in South Africa? That's what we've done. In fact, in Nigeria we only have 6 people that are program, but they were very all very high positions. They are doing incredible things in Nigeria, but they're not attached to any Nigerian University. They attached to our South African Davinci Institute the same in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe is not attached to a local Zimbabwean University, so we can be flexible to the extent that we need accredited programs and we might not. So the second thing that I would say is that a friend of mine are check friend but is original. Swiss has got millions from the European Union. To set up a new University program. Which is not interested in a tool. It's a leadership program. He's just doing it as a kind of Trojan horse to launch his next activity. Because he he, he sussed out what the EU would be interested in. I have to say spent three months of his life filling in all the paperwork. Terribly tedious. He has the kind of disposition to do that, and he's got his millions. And he's using that as a launching pad to do what he really wants to do so. So yeah, it's that flexibility, but you're absolutely right. OK, let me go on. I've been looking at the watch.
