In this book, learning always meds identification in the limit from positive death. This in Italian class systems are class of language with algebraic algebraic structure as target of learning and you know Jack sets used for sufficient conditions for learnability of language classes. The set union of two ideas has not been interested because it is difficult to give its meaning. In learning theory, final resting state of glass of language insured identifier, but you set union to language in it. Let it be a commutative ring, just as the set of integers or polynomials. A sense that IR is an idea if these three conditions are satisfied. I'm mapping see a power set up you do if there is a closure operator. If these three conditions satisfied. A class system is in the class of all classes closed set. S is not a character set of air anymore. Script has infinite SP if there exists an infinite sequence of elements as one S0S1 and language everyone L2 such that is there to SN1 belongs. But it doesn't. Any CSS is CSS that has finitely LSD or satisfies ascending chain condition. The bounded unions of language is defined this way. Every element of this class has objective set, and so this class is identifiable from positive date. In previous work, it is shown that bounded unions of language learner socially but. But it's learning algorithm is not given in its growth in stock. I the bad is set of hypergraph is F1. Sets do effective set of shears in unions of air is contained by. Letter. This is the whole scheme of learning algorithm of this class. Construct a hypergraph. Cheers at most K maximum high bridge and output then. It can be taken fairly provided that this condition there is 5. Number of application that I will class let I be the class of all ideas of polynomial polynomials. First, we explain in the relation between inductive inference an algebra. That system and character except. Concrete we proposed learning algorithm scheme by combining hypergraphs and checklists for banned unions of Natalia Curtis systems. In the class of ideas that recursively is. The purpose of our research is gratifying the property of learning languages with argic structure on both the build point of learning and mathematics. Some learning people have investigated learning languages with algebraic structure. What is an is positive that is yes, 7340 eight 6012 zero. Teacher showed this example one by one. This algorithm learns the class of ideas of integers. From the viewpoint of mathematics, mathematics, Chance, Summer research at the history of mathematics have found that the original budget over here about basis theorem can be regarded as learning.