I'm at Gatsby unit just South of here in London, and I'll be telling you about an introduction to Bayesian nonparametric modeling. Leave that models are almost never correct for our real data. How do we deal with model Misfit? We can try to do things like the following. Have a sequence of models of increasing complexity and we want to find the model of the right complexity to describe our data. Data set that we might encounter. So let's just imagine that we have our data X again, so X one to XN and we have a sequence of models MK, each parameterized by Theta K for K = 1, two and three, and so on. So for us to do model selection or averaging will always need to compute this thing right so? And the idea is that for model selection is to prevent overfitting or an underfitting by finding a model of the right complexity class to explain our data. So what is a nonparametric model nonparametric model is basically a. Parametric model that's really large, so where the number of parameters is either infinite or increases with the data that we see. Another way of thinking about what is an operating model is a family of distributions. So with nonparametric models, we are dealing with a family of distributions that so large that it can approximate any distribution to any arbitrary accuracy. It is a really nice way of sidestepping model selection averaging. So. How do we deal with it? Gaussian process is basically a random function right F from input space to R. Such that if you're given any finite set of input points X one to XN, then if you look at the joint distribution of F evaluated at X1F evaluated at X2 all the way until F evaluated at XN, then this vector here this random vector, because the function is random, we have a fixed input but random function, so this vectors random 2. So here. So we have uncountably infinite number of parameters here 1F of X for every X. Priors one for any set of inputs to be somehow consistent with each other, and it turns out that Luckily, because we're dealing with Gaussians, he ran when you marginalized out random variables under Gaussian, you still get a Gaussian and out right, and because of this consistency property of Gaussian distributions, we know that all of these marginal distributions are consistent with each other. And because they are consistent. We can apply this common graph consistency theorem, which kind of guarantees that Gaussian processes exist, IE. We have to place priors over parameters. Entry in this pie vector. So we'll introduce for simply, for simplicity, conjugate priors for parameters so. Distribution is not as efficient as one in which we. So hopefully you'll start producing bimodal distribution, right? What this says is that most of the components in our mixture will simply be empty, so they're not going to be associated with data at all, and what we will try to do is actually to lump all of this empty components together. So we have. A data item being assigned to that particular cluster will be arbitrarily small, as K becomes very very large. Right, so that's a lot of them. An of course the maximum number of components that this model will use is at most N. So now we can go back to our DP demo. The actual infinite limit of the model actually doesn't really make sense, and the reason is basically actually referred to this already, which is that for any particular component mixture components, the prior probability that it will be assigned to. So in the Gibbs sampler we kind of bypass this by saying by count lumping all of these different empty clusters together, right? Not very nice in the sense that we are deriving this algorithm and then we are taking the algorithm to the infinite limit and what we want to do in the rest of this lecture is actually to look at better ways of making this infinite limit precise. So that those with larger mixing proportions tend to occur first. So it turns out that both of these different views are both of these are different views of this. Object called the duration, a process which will spend the next 25 minutes on an additional processors can basically be thought of as this infinite dimensional duration distribution, just as the Gaussian process can be thought of as a infinite dimensional Gaussian distribution. A probability measure is simply one where the total length of the whole space is going to be one. So a Sigma algebra is simply a family of subsets of a set Theta such that. This is kind of the same way that you can think of a random variable, so the probability measure here on this space data, Sigma. Here's our Sigma algebra is going to be our random number generator. So and then finally, a stochastic process is basically a collection of random variables. So say XI, one for each I. And the distinguishing property of a stochastic process from, say, a graphical model is that this index set I can be infinite, and in fact it can be uncountably infinite as we saw in the case of a Gaussian process. So it's simply a distribution over this K dimensional probability simplex, a probability simplex being a set of vectors of length K that such that every entry is non zero and they sum to one. This is a density on the simplex. An another way of thinking of what is original distribution is that it's basically equivalent to taking a set of independent gamma variables. And we are given a bunch of training data, so X one is here and why one is the height of this point, for example. And then we want to fit a function which goes through this set of lines. Such that for any finite set of partitions of our space, so we start off with a space Theta. So we have fixed our finite measurable partition 8128K. It just means that they are disjoint completely. At random probability, measure G is a stochastic process that satisfies all of these properties for any partition. But if we keep on splitting each of these subsets into smaller into a. And of course this area here is going to be 1 * 1 is going to be one, so that's OK, right? We mentioned that we sampled from the replay process. A sample is a whole probability measure, so that on any finite partition. OK OK, what do we see? The process, as well as different representations of it before I go onto. Yes, in fact it turns out there is always countably infinite number of points masses. When you draw from the judicial process. Let's start with a set of basis functions, right? So then we say that we will parameterized function F of X using a set of parameters W as some linear combination of the basis functions. Right? Firstly, what basis functions to use? Or we could use things like that kind of triangular shaped and then that might give us piecewise linear functions for example. And finally, we even believe that the noise process here is Gaussian, right? Instead, well, we might want to do is to use a mixture model, right? So do we really believe that the true density is a mixture of components? So say we have N vectors of. An we want to model each as a linear combination of K latent sources or factors or features or something so XI. Plus some nice term epsilon. So these are pretty standard techniques in machine learning and statistics. Again, we might want to ask how many sources are there really in our data, right? So here we the task is that we want to infer topics from a document corpus topics. Again, we might want to ask how many topics can we find from the corpus.