I'm now part of a group called the Center for Sensor Web Technologies. I'm giving this afternoon's multimedia information indexing and retrieval. Is that what we tend not to realize is that most of the development of the computing industry throughout the last several decades has been to make computers run as much smaller to make them run faster. In other words, wirelessly so to make them run with less power point of consumption so that the batteries on them will last longer. And all of this is so that we can access and we can process increasing volumes of information in very more complex ways, and every every couple of years when we stand back and we look at what we're doing with information Now. ETC is that we can support very more complex multimedia applications. Those companies which develop technologies that we can use all these business. Our personal productivity, the fact that we're using spreadsheets and word processors, and we have seen this access to Internet. What you do is you process the audio documents of the waveforms looking for these word patterns and these word patterns only to use these as indexing terms and the query therefore is restricted to only searching for words from this predefined vocabulary. And the speech recognition that they developed would work really well because it has a limited vocabulary for recognition. Second approach to doing speech indexing and retrieval is to do continuous features speaker recognition, which is what Alex talked about briefly, and these applications have all the problems of speech recognition because they try to recognize all words spoken independent of the speaker, right? As Alex mentioned, this is difficult to accomplish, but there's a threshold which is the the word error rate. Of the spoken speech. An intrepid which Alex mentioned, in which I'll take a sidebar and talk about very briefly. Any of the speech groups, the quality of the speech recognition you get is quite variable. So instead of recognizing words level tokens, the alternative is to recognize these phone units and those are projected similar project at ETA jury which indexed radio news broadcasts in the German language by the word forms right, accurately, so that for each phone it has assess if possible candidates with probabilities and for the set of candidates there would be part way through this. Language in advance, so a phone is a basic unit of spoken language. We can't do this, specially if we want to use wave if we want to use a user input which is based on the user humming or singing in some way the query so it is very difficult for a human to produce a perfect query, an audio query and melody query which would support perfect note to note matching of audio documents. By matching a users music queries against the melody content of recorded songs so monophonic as opposed to polyphonic, most of the collection we used was monophonic, although in the latter stages we did include polyphonic music as well, and what we did was we process the music files which originated not as MIDI, but in PCM or an MP3 folder format. Razors allowing us to create right or to capture in some way. Or to view all of this multimedia information and when we've done that, when you've taken your pictures from this when you've grabbed your video, blogs and so on and so on, then what we want to do is we want to file it so we can find it later on. We lock, read lots of things we watch, lots of TV etc etc. We want to let other people besides ourselves find it. Which is where the technology starts to fail and where we have one solution. We should do much better because it's a huge business opportunity and we need to do much better because we're wasting so much of our time and so much of our energy and so much of our resource is in not doing better in managing our multimedia information. OK, so the reason why even bad karaoke can be recognized as a particular song is because the contour of the melody is being being repeated. So indexing music by a simple up down same notation is enough to give you a handle for doing melody retrieval. Now the melody of the music file is defined by comparing the change from one note to the next, irrespective of any timing information or magnitude such as the volume of the upper down or notation. OK so content based retrieval of images is required in applications like anything art, gallery's geographic information systems, managing trademarks, law enforcement, mugshots, photo archiving, photo archiving, right ten years ago. It's more important now because of the advent of digital cameras, because as we know people take more and more photos because the cost is nothing. Right, just you know, 'cause there's nothing. Ever write an content based image retrieval has been done, however, for decades. An we rely on more simple techniques. Photographs OK, so text based indexing. Well, that works because with every image embedded in every web page. Some of the possible sources of information to describe that are used in the retrieval process in Google images. You can look at the title of the web page or the heading. Or the most recent heading. The second level is is based on derived attributes. And it's the use of feature detectors that Alex mentioned earlier on. OK, so it's making that jump OK, and in fairing the attributes from those things that are present within the image. So it requires abstracting from level 2 and so on and so on. Semantic content, so this level one, extracted image primitives, and this is the lowest level and it uses image primitives based on extracted features like color. Well, another extracted another image primitive that you can extract is texture and texture is a measure of the properties such as the smoothness or coarseness, or the regularity of a surface, and it's one of those concepts that's very hard to define in the English language, 'cause it doesn't lend itself to being wordsmith, it too well an this texture of this carpet is kind of nobly. However, there's three key ideas behind multimedia information retrieval. And if that the current trend is based upon these three ideas, firstly successful content based retrieval systems are very domain specific and only work in those domains that they're designed for, although they may be ported an tried elsewhere, so you may have a system that manage is your personal photographs, and it manages photographs. If we want to develop tools which are automatic and which understand in some way the content, then these are difficult to develop and Alex alluded to this earlier on. In other words, you take a piece of multimedia and you do simple things to it right and you use only those simple things. And if you're going to involve users, then involve interactive processes, which at which wich engage with users. So texture is a measure of a property such as smoothness or coarseness or regularity, and homogeneous texture and non homogeneous texture can be computed for regions of a photograph or an image, or for objects offer entire images. It's three, sorry it's 2 dimensional, not 3 dimensional, and if you take an object and you extract its shape from its background, then you can use that as a primitive and you can represent that in MPEG 7 and it can be useful for finding images that contain a shape similar to that, so you might have this as a shape extracted from an object and you might want to find other objects which are the same shape and you might find that as a match because it's reasonably close. But to go back to the Castle in Germany to to extract the shape of the Castle from this image here would give you this. Something is behind an, but the one which works well as the combination of all of those together, right? We just got this texture. Top half of which ice and water texture with the water texture look like yet another example. So we move on to level 2 because in images what we have also got is we've got derived attributes such as the presence of a specific object so we can detect chairs. Then we can detect chairs. It's not just the person name is John. So there's a picture of a skyscraper somewhere while we develop a suite of retrieval techniques that can employ these features and can detect these features. So with these derived attributes, what we should be able to do is to integrate the contributions. So if there is a vagueness and it's sort of a wriggle room associated with the users query, then there's also a wriggle room and an interpretation associated with the image itself, so we must also understand that the query specifications will be oftentimes quite incomplete and maybe refined through iteration as the user basically sees pictures and then becomes clear as to what more that what they're looking for. But even more so in image retrieval than in document retrieval. Compared to text to do good quality image retrieval, 'cause the things themselves, the pictures can mean so many things, a picture or a video is very content rich compared to text and therefore it answers many and very diverse queries right? Mad King Ludwig's Castle give you well, OK, so if you wanted to do a query, you could find that image. Here we go again is a great place to visit, so you get that picture by by the text surrounding it etc by the shape by the shape perhaps of trees, although unfortunately it's cut off. One looks like Bill Clinton, another looks like Gerry Adams and the other one somebody who was nearly vice president or nearly a president. Still, what we can do is we can infer abstract attributes which don't correspond to any direct content in the image itself. OK, just North, a lot more associated with that and it's these high in Ferd attributes that are at this Level 3. So if we have a football players. When we create a multimedia artifact, whether it's a picture or a piece of music or whatever it might be, we create two things. OK, so for audio for image and for video, almost without exception we use the metadata associated with that picture for content operations and this is good because it's cheap. So there's pluses and minuses associated with that picture you just took, or that recording you just grab downloaded from the Internet. OK, so there's the examples of their Formula One car and how do you know that this is a picture of a storm over city? Pipe Icon was a nice example because it used Google Image Search, but in addition to this it tried to understand the pictures that it was a retreiving, assuming that they were derived from newspaper texts and it used things like the text to the caption around the newspaper picture, so it took pictures as they appeared in newspaper texted, indexed them by the collateral text around them, etc. Earlier on an A problem with doing retrieval based on color histograms alone is that small variations in color can lead to non matches. OK, so managing digital photographs manual markup. But what can you do automatically? Well, every time you take a picture associated with that picture is a thing called the Exif header, and you can use the information stored in the Exif header as a starting point. Manipulating multimedia content at the semantic level is the only way towards realizing the full potential of emerging digital media technologies. Then the way the way we achieve this was to use a separate GPS handheld GPS device about the size of a smaller than the mobile phone which just switch on and it just record your location and track. So time combined with very simple color analysis can give us even finer grained events. And this is all done by extracting level one primitives from the pictures and using them. Just by looking at the context, ranking photographs based on how near they were there to the point that was taken, not just how similar they look, and integrating weather information from weather stations that constantly store this data. OK, it's a ski resort. Anna command. Content based retrieval of images. We look at the different approaches. Now, how does this class fit into the rest of the week and anybody get it? We have user annotations that we have content extraction, and they're the kind of activities that go on, and then we have this class on multimedia indexing and retrieval, which is about taking large quantities of this and making it available for people in the hardware will talk about interfaces and then those classes on multimedia ontologies for reasoning and analysis, which is to do with content, extra extraction, and then we have a class tomorrow from Steven on Semantic Web and multimedia, and so they all kind of relate to each other in a diagram like that. It's divided into two kinds of audio data, important speech and nonspeech, and the speech applications can be in accessing archives of radio or TV searching Brother kind of broadcast contents like the dialogue from movies, video and audio, email, audio of lectures or meetings or whatever. Like a database of whale sounds or a database of bird songs, but we then tend to be very nation very now, so we're not going to concentrate on those. If we have speech, then two utterances of the same word by the same person under pretty much the same conditions will generate very different waveforms because of the variability of human speech generation because of air temperature. So what we try and do therefore is we try and convert speech into something else.