There's a long list of flyblown metaphors. Which could be got rid of if enough people would interest themselves in the job. But he also says it's better to put off using words as long as possible and get ones meaning as clear as one can through pictures or sensations. Doesn't conceive that computers can be more creative than humans in certain tasks, so as we said, when someone, when one watches some tired hack, he worked for a lot of tier tax, mechanically repeating a familiar phrases one that one has often has a curious feeling that one is not watching a live human being, but some kind of dummy. A speaker who uses that kind of phraseology. The appropriate noises are coming out of his larynx, but his brain is not involved as it would be if you were choosing his words for himself. He says the worst thing one can do with words is surrender them. What is above all needed is to let the meaning choose the word and not the other way around. Where they would cut up newspapers or other textual matter and randomly splicing back together. He kept the human squarely in the loop. If it is possible to cut out a word or was cut it out, never use a fancy word when you can think of an everyday word. I think I've done a cut and paste error here, but let's move on to the second balloon when you make a stupid remark. But not expressed in fancy rich, not gaudy for the apparel OFT proclaims demand. OK, so readers tend to find the text more profound and dig deeper to give it meaning if it has a clearly poetic form. He said if the glove don't fit, you must acquit. I want to do a quick tour of what it means to be creative and language and the patron Saint of creative language is Mr George Orwell. They're all making their costumes, and he says, he who questions training only trains himself and asking questions, work well on your new costumes. My friends for when you care for what is outside what is inside, cares for you. There's someone your power for the conflict that come. You must first have power over that which conflicts you. And Mr. Furious goes OK. Am I the only one here who finds these things a little bit formulaic? It's inspired by Earl's notion of web service oriented architecture, which he describes as an architectural model that aims to enhance the efficiency, agility, and productivity of an enterprise by positioning services as the primary means through which solution logic is represented. It's the McDonald's of metaphors computationally generated. OK, that's a dry cleaner that's not a web service. Hence it's hard boiled and it generates hardboiled metal for every hour. So they share a fence. OK, so not every automated output will hit its target an our boss will always occasionally shoot blanks. So the principle at work in almost every twitterbot is the stopped Clock is right twice a day. On May 14th this year, it got favorited 228 times and it got retweeted 243 times. OK, so we tweet accidentally hits into a context that makes it super relevant and everybody goes. I I when I was writing this tutorial metaphor magnet produced this very Nostradamus popularizer. You have to use all of the tricks. When a minor spot may produce some rare gems amongst a torrent of sheer random guano. What are mere generation and pastiche? I will generation is the Borges story, the Library of Babel. It generates a random hex color code, 6 digit hex code for color genden. And this is just like the. The Library of Babel used generated every possible book were 26 alphabetic characters, A space, A comma. When you veer too close to your inspiring exemplars. So museum DOT uses the catalog of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which has photos, high res photos and captions and a picks one randomly and a tweets the picture and a caption. It doesn't generate new images or new captions, and it doesn't. The robot, the bot the computer is steering its way through a space like Grant was saying deliberately using filters and critiques and self evaluation to steer its course. There is no knowledge free computational creative system. Here's another bought by Darius Kissimmee, which is also popular another. On Metaformin, it tweets a metaphor shaped text. Some of the adjectives are great. So he said most people who bother with the matter. Language becomes ugly and inaccurate because our thoughts are foolish, but the slovenliness of our language makes it easier for us to have foolish thoughts. It uses to cut up technique, and again it's by Darius Kazemi, who's very prolific. OK, so it tries to generate a bisociation of ideas, many of them don't work, but some of them work wonderfully right again, but it's all in your head is not in the box head. Uneven coverage in his taxonomy, no pragmatics, but improving all the time. The vast source of implicit beliefs language in the world is topical. Bread is a bagel breakfast? Over here you should all follow this bot appreciation bot. Which is by museum bought so Mike's bar has taken cylinder and said what is cylinder like? And it's like a curved blade, but blade has all sorts of extra meanings and it ends up loading resonance. These are the Google N Grams, the Google N grams are a local database of snippets of text from the web which Google give you on five DVD's. But we want Pomeranians are neurotic dogs. Orwell tells us the book fascinated him, or more exactly, it reassured him. In a sense, it told him nothing that was new, but that was part of the attraction. It said what he would have said if it had been possible for him to set his scattered thoughts in order. A scrupulous writer in every sentence that he or she this is will ask himself at least four questions in every sentence. That's a prescription for banality. Plan your use of mental imagery. There's a hole in the middle. Each is made from flour, and oh, I know you're getting very hungry now 'cause you haven't eaten anything, it fits in your hand. That's it. They're sweet generally. So they seem to be the ideal comparison for each other, and there's an obvious metaphor here. A bagel assisted donut with an office job. It's gossip, right, activates the same part of the brain. They're talking about bits and bobs in the world that have no real human center, but God of X tells us. Right, so if you do in the Google Ngram's God of X you find God of War is the top topic right? But if you look for culture of X, that suggests that X is so pervasive and noticeable in our society. The famous linguist Eric Furt famously said. You shall know a word by the company it keeps. They have objectives and pay taxes like businesses and it uses this corpus evidence to figure out that this is the part of the graph that holds. We can build on these. But it knows and it's knowledge base that Champions win competitions and it knows that champions are energetic and it knows that travelers undertake journeys and travelers are typically exhausted and it says hang on a minute. Remember when competitions were one by energetic champions. You are not obliged to go to all this trouble. You don't go to this trouble, do you unlike me? You shook your responsibility by simply throwing your mind open and letting the ready made phrases come, crowding in you. And I tip 5 is to compare things that are very different but which belong to a category that is at once quite unifying but not very obvious. These concepts move closer together in our mind they now become associated and you find an embracing category such as dark things won't protect my privacy. What matter magnet does is that it tries to put together different things in the same inclusive category. I like to think of it in genetic terms. Interact with each other and that's basically a good metaphor for what's happening in blending. Concept by the way, I very good example of blending. Is the film the fly we're blending was not a goal. OK, so. Poet and substance would comedian, so why don't I treat rapper as if it was a blend of these two things and that's where it. And she says obstruction may not resonate with many of every words. Followers who were just hanging around to retweet sex, weed and vagina. At this point, the accounts most retweeted words, but the idea of using Twitter as a medium for serious art and social commentary has increasingly caught on. So he said, Mike suggests building a bot that would. Respond to every color bought by actually coming up with a creative name in the style Dulux paints. This color here, which is kind of awful, could be mushrooms on toast or rusty battleship or. OK. Software is not human, but it has the power to shock like a human and even to offend like a human can we curtail its power at some of the things that this bot says we're pretty ripe. He says not only can protest bots present society ability cannot pay, they can do sort of rate of once every two minutes. They expose our work to the world. And an interest in computational creativity to build creative Twitter bonds. Pros consists less and less of words chosen for their meaning and more and more. You says there's a huge dump of worn out metaphors which have lost all evocative power, and merely used because they save people the trouble of inventing phrases for themselves.