So I'd like to so the next topic I like to talk about is prediction with side information. Static predictor from the beginning of time and you're going to choose the best static predictor in hindsight, and then you compare two quantities and that's your regret. Distribution over the outcomes that imposes distributions over. Distribution and then you start to reason about whether it is worse switching from one action to another by calculating this regret. Both of the prospective actions that that remain you select the least known action. So what you see here is that in the regret bond, the width of the confidence intervals are going to appear OK, so this kind of an abstract result. This learner that you should supply the confidence intervals is able to supply confidence intervals that are decaying fast. And we don't have currently results for prediction with side information. So I'm planning to talk about learning this partial information, feedback, training of exploration and exploitation. And also learning with delayed feedback. So we call this framework the online probing framework. Plus there is a loss of unity, so the total cost for the learner for this round is going to be this number. So first of all, the company doesn't need to see the label right? And of course the competition is going to suffer prediction losses fast, so so you want to compete with the best predictor in hindsight and difference again, is. One setting is when all the labor costs are zero, and then naturally the learner is going to choose to see the label in every time step because it's for free. So if you choose something about choosing a predictor in order to be able to use this predictor, and the example provided, provided you didn't see the side information, you need to add the features. So if you're asking those features, then for any other predictor that uses subset of those features. Usual covering tricks, you can derive bonds for Lipschitz losses using cover covering numbers. Factor is to think about what happens in linear regression with quadratic losses, so that's a beautiful structure, right? So let's say that you're choosing a vector with some probability from some finite set. And then just discretization to the horizon and use an exponential weights algorithm on and. So we already are overpaying. And then you can realize that you can as well decide for seeing all the features because it's just entered the constant that you are paying in your regret, and so somehow if you have, the label is costly than the game is not so interesting and you can actually in this case use an exponential weights algorithm and and flip a coin every time step. That shows that you cannot go below that, and that's exactly because you're already paying too much for the label. What we see in this case so that the slide that explains why we're talking about monetary does is that it seems that like there is a tradeoff between computation costs here and these other two things, prediction accuracy and information acquisition cost. So I'd like to start with passion monitoring and with an example. For the dynamic pricing case, so you can capture this with the loss matrix so you are the role player, the learner is low player. So you take the losses that you are suffering at your choice of actions and opponents choice of price. Can you design tractable algorithms for regression when you're competing with small subsets of features? So the interaction is happening at high frequency. Here is a simplified model for studying this question. The development, deployment cost, convenience, maintenance cost versus prediction accuracy right so the reason we do this is because of convene. So there are two Q is basically that the machines which are ready and the machines which are still waiting for feedback for the machines that are still waiting for feedback. And then it's moved to the queue where you have the machines waiting for feedback. I also have some open questions. Alright, so we don't currently have lower bounds for the stochastic setting and we have just done extension to partial monitoring and prediction with side information, so that's not not open anymore so we can do that. Right, so this is talking about the basic tradeoff between information acquisition costs and prediction accuracy, right? So my conclusion is that the other few tradeoffs that we can handle Valve and some tradeoffs require very delicate tuning. As you can see from the graph. So the solution to this problem boils down to the following things. So you start with the probability distribution over over the opponents choices. So let's say the opponent has M choices and all the losses are between zero and one. So it's clear that this relationship can be encoded with the matrix, right? We call that the signal matches because that encodes the structure of the feedback. And the prices which are not neighbors in this ordering but neighbors in the graph, and many of them they are not local observable. So there's the structure of the game for dynamic pricing, and then that tells that the regrets going to grow at the rate of three to the 2/3. Well it sort of comes back like that's kind of showing the situation here.