I'll talk about some relevant key performance indicators. I would say efficiency, service, quality, environmental, sustainability, infrastructural sufficiency and social issues, not only CO2. Efficiency, you mean absolute unit course, relative link or service quality. There are several components, transport time, reliability, frequency of service. Whether or not you have ICT applications, cargo security, safety and then you have environmental, KP eyes, CO2, Sox, NOx and particulate matter. Then you have infrastructural sufficiency men. It's a patchwork in Europe, I mean at least four major gauge systems. At least four major electrification system, at least 20 train control systems, virus clearance systems, incompatibilities even between systems that are similar in other respects. Things very difficult, so there is this Interoperability Directive 5057 of 2008. To establish the conditions to achieve interoperability within the Community rail system. A key component of interrupt building rail is what is known as ear TMS the the so called European Rail traffic Management System. Because there are many different control systems, for example, the well known talleys train set between Paris, Brussels, Cologne and Amsterdam have to be equipped with several different systems of train control. What is the relevance to drink the green corridors? Well, it isn't paramount importance be cause if you take a look at the at the KP eyes that I talked about before, they are significantly influenced by whether or not the recorder can function smoothly or not. So, and actually we speculate that even a modest moderate gain in this Department who translating significant gains for the attractiveness of rail vis a vis other modes which are less anfar, environmentally friendly. It's a European concept Delong denoting long distance freight transport corridors where you have advanced technology and commonality that are used to achieve energy efficiency and. This is of course, the object of a detailed analysis. I can only say something qualitative at this point. On the frequency by Sky to moderate on the emissions KP eyes high high to moderate. And in terms of interoperability and other modes itself, equality equal importance given the drive for Co modality. And what we have done there is we have done some benchmarking so we have gathered some data to try to figure out some of the KPI's. Within this project, that is the way to to get connected. You can send an email to this this this email that they can put you automatically in the list of people who are. Integrated logistic concept harmonized system of rules? You have national both national and international goods traffic on long transport stretches effective and strategically placed. Transshipment points infrastructure. The full name is supporting EU freight transport logistics action. Support the recommendations on green corridors to the freight transport logistics spectrum practice plan. The new White paper and Carriage Co. Modality for sustainable solution performance benchmarking of green corridors based on selected KP eyes covering all aspects that are related to transport, operation and infrastructure.