[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello, my name is Yana Martyna. I'm from the University of Stuttgart and I'm here for the project sector that means secure, common information space for the interoperability of first responders and police authorities. Sounds complicated, is complicated in a way, but I will try to make it more comprehensive to you and my presentation.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
What are we doing? We are a European project. We are a EU funded projects and we are focusing on the interoperability of IT systems. What is a common information space? It is a place where we can exchange ideas, create common understanding and also have the possibility to exchange more easier data and information which are very very important for the situational awareness for creating a comment. Common understanding and a joint operational picture. What we have done through this is basically we have looked at past events and procedures that were already implemented in crisis management organizations. We wanted to get an overview of how the organizations cope with crisis, what they are exactly doing, which data formats they are exchanging, and how we can help with the project maybe. Now we are in the face of developing the architecture for the common information space.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And the main object objectives are to create a pan European inventory to have a database on past events. To understand the concrete involvement of crisis management organizations in crisis situations. To understand how information is shared, to support the collaborator Crisis management, we know that in complex crisis situations there is the need for the cooperation of multiple organizations and to also respect the operational procedures and the legal frameworks which are at the base of all activities of organizations in crisis management.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
How can such a CIS look like? Yeah, it looks complicated to say to make it a bit more comprehensive. This will be a system which tries to interoperate different IT systems. That means national IT systems, and that means also open source systems like Google Crisis response, the Hanna and Eden. Why are we doing it? We want to make sure that organizations can get. Information from different sources and can enhance with those information their common operational picture to better react to crisis. Now we are in the face. As I already pointed out, to develop the architecture of the common information space we were trying now to interoperate summit systems to make them available for all organizations involved in crisis management.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
To to wrap up again. What is the common information space? There are different organizations. There are different actors which need to access information. They can do it via their IT systems by accessing the common information space where different information source gathered and different information on past events can be accessed. How is this common information mission space supporting collaborative crisis management? It will support interdisciplinary cooperation. It can support information sharing, the coordination data sharing and the definition and sharing of this responsibilities in concrete crisis situations.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
While

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Are standards so important for the common information space we know as already pointed out that standards count, semantic planning, resilience, organizational interoperability and others things we need. Standards to share? Information to share data and we need. To do it quick and away, we have no long time to decide in crisis situations where to do we need the standards before the crisis strikes in a way and. The sector system will of course be based on standards already developped in the field of.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Crisis management here is some of them with their are very relevant. Most of all relevant is the standardization and the field of data sharing and data formats and the project sector and the standardization of procedures and process is to be adapted in crisis management, so every organization is following different procedures and different process is we need to generate a common understanding. A standardized process how to react to different types of crisis. This is one of the other issues that is addressed within the project sector.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
In our research, we had the possibility to talk to a variety of end user organization means police services or firefighters on another rescue organizations and we asked them to point out which are the factors on which other needs. That are most crucial for you with regards to standardization and we heard yes, we are using so many different IT systems that are often not interoperable. We cannot access data we need. In a perfect time, in a way. So they said, basically there's a big big need for you. Use standard for data transfer, which we already have. We just maybe not perfect like the Inspire initiatives have shown we need. What we basically really need is a collaborative common information space which can support the sharing of information between different IT systems and can generate a common understanding. A giant understanding of how to proceed on what to do with the information gathered during crisis situations.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
This is. One of the main factors that is influencing the potential of such a common information space to support collaborative crisis management by. On the one hand, standards and on the 2nd, on the other hand, by building a platform which is able to integrate different systems which are used nationally which are used internationally. To get an overview of all relevant information.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Thank you, that's from my side and now I will.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Let's marry you tell you something about the project Destriero, which is not doing the same, but they are kind of sister projects, I'd say. My name is Mario Ferrentino. I'm entity researcher from Italy for a research company that is called Cini. Today I'm here to present the main findings of our project that is called this euro. This trailer stands for Decision Support tool for reconstruction and Recovery an for the interoperability of international relative units in case of complex crisis situation, including CPR and contamination so long.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So the the context is the crisis management. As you know, crisis management can be divided in four main phases that are the mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery. This stereo tool focuses on the recovery phase. We know why the crisis management, because during last decade we had a lot of disasters. So man made or natural made such as terrorist attacks or fluid earthquake hurricane and so on and risk starts to become higher. When we could have the possibility also of CBRN contamination. So we have to improve our coordination at an operational level and we must be faster in actions.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So nowadays, what's the problem that the post crisis damage and needs assessment and also the recovery and reconstruction planning is made by local authorities, so there's no cooperation, and there's no coordination, so we do not have any tool that supports such organization during the action, and the activities that must be conducted on the field.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So our main objectives. The main objective of the project are to have a better damage assessment. So in order to enhance our things that are done on the field and activities so on so to have also faster and improve it. Common operational picture for all the organizations that are responding during the recovery and reconstruction phase. And of course we would like also to improve the management of information that is shared by the organization that are responding during the recovery phase.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
This is a glimpse on the project timing. I think we have done a lot of work. We are ending phase three so we have developed our platform. We are now testing the platform and we are entering now in phase four that is related to demonstrate and validate the platform.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
This is one of our outcomes. This is a very ugly evil picture of our architecture, so you can see different factors that can interact with our platform in different way by using a native HMI that is our HMI to destroy HMI or by using external tool. So users can be able to access all the data that is stored inside our platform. The core of the platform is characterized by the destrier node that is able to enhance the interoperability and information exchange among all the organization. Of course, at the lower lever we have a network where data is exchanged among all the nodes.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
This is a very recent picture. I think I've added this yesterday. This is one of the outcome of our tool is not an animated GIF is real is our HMI. So here you have an example on how through our tool you can manage activities to be conducted on the field, so creating an activity allocate resources for an activity, do something on the field and so on.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And most important, you can visualize things on map. A lot of end users set us that it is really important to have all the information in a single map and be able to switch among layers and so you have also possibility to filter data that could be displayed on this map.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So why standards in this feral reasons are different? Of course we used standards to improve the cooperation and collaboration among organization. Standards have been used to improve the automatic data management and information exchange among the organization and of course for a faster and better common operational picture.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Here are some standards we have used. We have used the OS inside the Excel standards, in particular TDE distribution related as a container of the information that is exchanged among all the nodes in our in our platform as a content of this message, we have used the JC three at them. That is a standard data model realized by the Multilateral Interoperability program. And we've seen that this model has a lot of entity and is really useful to model our domain. The Exchange of information among all the notes has been made by some implementation of the DDS standards in order to improve information exchange based on the mechanism of published subscribed topics and so and then. Finally, we have tried also to apply the damage and loss assessment standard methodology. Dalla is a standardized methodology to create reportes after a crisis occurred, so you can find there a lot of. Statistical data regarding economical impact losses, damages, sectorial needs and so on. You have also the opportunity to find recovery actions that have been conducted during the recovery phase.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So in practice, all the listed, all the standards that I've mentioned can be seen in inside our architecture, so the sternal expose a set of services that have been made by the soap protocol, and the use of the Edexcel DIA as a container. These messages include JC Three at the Amentities old data is shared among the nodes by means of this, over by means of different implementation of the OMG standards, the DDS. And user through our HMI is also able to generate a dollar report. So inside the platform we have a lot of data that is shared by all the organization and we could try to generate. We try to generate these dollar report according to the data that is currently inside our platform.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So by concluding in conclusion, we want to hear from you, we have different. We have a survey on our side, so if possible I would kindly ask you to download our survey to fill in the survey and send us back. We have also LinkedIn group and Twitter accounts. And please don't miss this year open meetings. You are the dates in the location you can meet our representatives see results an at face to face discussion. So thank you.
