We're gonna have today a large number of presentations from pump priming projects in Pascal. The pump priming project that I was coordinating. One is again, I won't get into this model if someone knows about the work that theme topic mixture model which they used earlier, but they figured out it doesn't scale well. Well to this case. And this was the general architecture. These are the technical details? So often you have to compress the actual transcript in order to fit in subtitle requirements. So like if you don't have to lose information, that subtitle will also entail the transcript, but sometimes you must lose some information, so the subtitle will give you a little bit less information. Is just an example, we're only dilution was applied whereby some kinds of paraphrasing, you know, it was clear that could be replaced with. OK, so the lexical entailment models can tell you the bar illan and the idiot models. OK, and that was evaluated relative to to. And in this experiment, we compared the two. And some developed some lexical entailment models. C NTS. But basically the idea is if people are familiar with the language modeling approach to IR, there is a particular approach that suitable for lexical expansion, which is like a translation based, so it tries to model whether you can, in some sense translate the query to fit into the document. And indeed when you augment the standard language model with lexical entailment probability, it gives you more, gives you better performance. Domain specific IR task and what Stephanie did found is that that was actually corresponding with them. For those familiar with it, and then in clay they got improvement from 45 to 50%, which is, you know, this is going to improvement in mapping mean average precision in. It also triggered following word to kind of also made him aware to the internment approach and now they have a project, a joint project with Symbol University on semantic entailment in Dutch, and that's used for the summarization problem which I also mentioned yesterday in summarization, you have two sentences, let's say coming from different documents that mean actually the same. It's part of his PhD research in understanding the problem coming up with various definitions you can work three months on some definition. Then try this thing. Beyond the basic definition of textual entailment, because we wanted to work with some probabilistic models, we sought definition of lexical setting for texture entailment and eventually we came with this kind of definition. So how can we formalize that in probabilistic terms? The the probability of the hypothesis being true will remain the same. If the text contradicts. Groups I won't get deep into the models, so one model was was based on lexical alignment. Basically we apply the Bayesian model and then the trick there was to view this problem as a text categorization problem. I will view vote as kind of a text categorization as a text category. The whole context of the text, all the words collectively entail the meaning of this target word. OK, so in this perspective, every word in the lexicon would be regarded.