My name is Sebastian Hellmann. Today I will talk about linked data in linguistics or an RV and that annotation, which is a very broad topic and I will just give pointers to individual communities which are forming in this area now and I hope this will give everybody a very good overview. And once you have an idea for a wide range of RDF tools, can be used. I want to introduce the energy interchange format short NIF, which is an idea of all based format. It will output to RDF, but it's targeted at like to standardize this output and make it usable for further processing. Basically it was released in September. There was a first release of the specification, September 2011. There were also third party implementations of the specifications for several projects, discuss usage and we will set up an advisor report and there will be a next draft which will also be discussed by Community. So third third part make the output of NLP tools available on the web. You would take the web page. Add something. What I will talk about today is turning walled gardens into park networks of semantic linguistic data. So the basic question is, how can we leverage the data web or natural language processing? There are 50 billion facts which cover all kinds of domains. Most of them are created based on crowd source approaches and also there are timely updated as fresh data which can use analysis using the key processes. Here, RDF place a central role because are you in all this all about semantic recoverability? The oneness of the Working Group for open linguistics data, which is not. Of the linguistic linked open data Cloud, we started this as working group at the Open Knowledge Foundation and soon we there was a great resonance and suddenly the group now consists of maybe 50 researchers which all tried to 1st published the data under open licenses and then also convert and interconvert the data object and interlinked with other knowledge, more sources. So here the basic question I think is not whether to use RDF and LIMITATA, but when to use it.