Hello everyone to their hands on training for efficient handling of a large models. So I'm not telling you how to set up a cluster. OK um. We should talk about which is licensing so we can use a single license. But just one task at a time. If you ever split license, which means you split the license in pre post and in a solve Patch solve or solve Patch license then you're. And then we have the different system configurations we have. So you have to log in it as administrator. And this current release and remote solve Manager. And yeah, one really important thing is that all users need to have all rights in this directory. Yeah, once all these settings are performed so there are just a few settings we need to set the password. And then we should see this green check Mark here for everything. So how to edit remote solve manager? What's really important is that these ports need to be open for a communication of the RSM components, so as you see here, it's 814, which is the release of the answers version, and here it's 145, which is 14.5. And we cannot talk about how to access this folder from within Workbench. We're not talking about the handling of large models, and now I guess it's getting interesting for you. To clear some parts of the model, you could either do it directly in your CD software, or you can use the tools and. And they can be used to filter items, group items, or to convert items. OK, and yeah that's interesting as I said, for programming for fast selection. We can play around with the selections. Use it to control the visibility of the bodies. This part here in the toolbar. If we have large models, so let's go there and. Then there is this small button here for object generator. So from our experience the IBM platform MPI is a little little bit more robust than the Intel MPI. So you can try it. Then they called pretensioner direction of the pretension is clear, so it's it's along the axis of the Bolt. OK, so this is. And yeah, we can do it in directly in ANSYS mechanical. When using the object generator, we are working with the name collections. They have to be in one domain. This distributed solution is to set the checkbox and then it's in distributed mode. We have a direct solver and iterative solver. Which means if you have friction plasticity in the model. If you're if you like to run a job on 8 course because of hyperthreading, you you're able to address 8 cores a different course. Hyperthreading doesn't make sense if you're using answers. So this is the result tracker. We apply some external load and the loads that result from the external loads are the stresses and from from them we can calculate internal loads. The so called Newton raphson residuals. Here for Newton raphson residuals. So to see the Newton raphson residuals in Workbench after retrieving the results you need to edit this file. We have large models, we have a lot of users because RSM is using a queuing system or we have limited resources so. So this is at this point here, lots of users. For these cases you can use command object like here and type in directly the PDL commands. And if we then do a right mouse button click on the legend here and then we can say adjust to visible and then it is automatically automatically adjusted to this body here. These are the machines over. All these jobs are the run. And we have queues, so this is a list.