[0.0s - 29.0s]
So I am doctor an engineer and I work for Association for the the Ancestral Association dunk equal equal conception.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So, uh, so I will Association and now those two things we have developed many activity the so the the objective of this activity, especially to promote equal design for semis. So we can find in our Association the 1st the 1st. The first activities is deficient of diffusion of the best practice and after we have research, so research and Esther search and also scientifically research because we're working with the mini laboratory. The searchable ability, and especially in the subject of equal design LCA and also and simply. The in subject of social equal design so and after we have the third activity, its direction of study. So study study undisclosed study. For example how to develop communication, communication on B2B or how? Can we? How? How can we? Support companies to integrate and to develop equities in network network so and the 4th transfer of methodology. So in France and also another country we have the real separation between scientific research and industrial requirement. So for this. We work with the mini laboratory and the objective. It's how to adapt and implement the results of research to the requirement of SM ES and and. We have also very very new activity is publishing so publishing for example what is equal design? And how can we what or how can we integrate equal design is specially for the small SMS because because in. So in our different meeting with SMS, we understand that SMS. They don't have a clear idea with. With different stage of integrating the ecodesign.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So I want to Association is developed the the activity of our Association is developed in 2002 so. The the the the main mission format for our Association is to support champer of Commerce and Industry to develop and especially to help designers and SMS to integrate on vision, mental constant and the development of their product. So for this we have different up first.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The. First, equal disaster preparedness equal design PDF pre diagnostic. So the objective of this tools it specially to assess. The current situation of of process of development of the company. For example, if we have small SMS which produce, for example, chair. So we especially the. With our tools, we want to assess using track list. So we assess. At the first the. The method of the development of the SM ES. So we evaluate if the SM is taking into account different legislation. If Intel development use some tools of evaluation of LCA, for example or other things, and if there is another constant, for example. Else echo, uh cycling constant Exeter and after this, so we evaluated, especially or only one product, WHI WHI we have shows the only other one product because in the first step of sensibly to subsidize the SMS it's more best to use an example in for this exercise we have choice. Product for the SM ES to explain and to to explain for for engineering teams how can we integrate and how can we evaluate? How can we integrate especially equal design using a very easy tools?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So, but but the problem is the main problem for this, for our work is how to recreate the requirement of company. So for this we have developed many we have developed we have made. Action action so the objective by those collection action is to socialize and especially to. 280 to animate. Teams for for equal design and also we have created. Few more server director marketing by phoning and we have invited them to come to the meeting so we have organized many meeting for example meeting meet half day for. For LCA tools, for example, Semi Pro Gabby. Duncker the goal of these teams. It's especially to assess the environmental impact of their product. And to do now, to have some loads of of existing tools to start equals design methodology.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So. The result of our paid ignostic is a report. It's a document in which we have different access to employment, equal design in their product.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
But the problem and the problem that we have in at each. The mission we have we are confronted in the following question. It's how much equal design cost and how much can it make money. So it's the first or always it's the first question and for this we have conducted a study study. But I'm sorry it's in French. So it could design economic return of equal design and for this study we have. We have evaluated 30 company so each company had contact contact protective product of equal design. And we have identified many benefit. For example, benefit in the benefit in minimize, for example the. Energy consumption, for example, initiate with minimizing the material conception, etc.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So now we have a we animated network, so we have a 33 Le centre in France, Canada and also in Belgium. So we animate this network with the mini meeting. We have meeting it's to transfer the best practice in best practice with. Me the equal design and also it's too diffuse. The different new tools that it had been developed.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So each relay center has access to the knowledge of our Equal Design Center as well as tools and method. We organize at least one meeting per year. One national meeting per year of work transfer and debriefing. The main propose is to make sense of it. Reason definition diffusion of best practice to transfer tools and methodology expert is on technical problem and the development of research to film.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So the problem of. Collective action don't. Despite all the economic data and after several year of assisting companies, we do not have many equivalently product on the market. So it's the conclusion of our first work by the tools. PDF Gnostic equal designer. So how? How many of you will? So so so. So what is the problem? The problem is. Is from our face for various study and experiment. We realized that the target that that the target on a previous action will were not sufficient. So for this we.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So for this.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So for this we conclude that it, specially all the tools that have been developed until now, are the tools that antenna stick for the development stage. For example, LCA tools, for example checklist and the other. So. Now for to do so when we look so handsome. Allow the potential so in this I'm sorry in this. In this level, so has a lower potential of value creation and the teams of development in your it in your marketing problems. And there is no synergy between the actor.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So. So what is innovation and what is equal innovation? It's for us. It's synergy between element between marketing, technology and environment and.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And for us there are two different level in equal designer. So the first, the first one is about equal is equal design. It's how to do over the same thing with less impact on Environement II. Wanna deal with equal innovation? It's how it were returned of two functional. A unit with less impact on environment.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So with the environment and become the become the backbone of the protector and is no longer an extra layer. But this points to service or you need explicit by the use. So for us now by this methodology it's it's the environmental constraint can. Bleken can be defined at the beginning of the project design.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So for this we have developed the Miss and Victorina. In this method we have we have three step, so the first one it's the auditor dunker. We have static analysis measure measuring innovation, asset marketing, analysis of elemental analysis of product and determining the green potential and the second one. It's creativity, don't we use a different tools of creativity? For example, trees to he's been storming and other and the third step see its application. So implementation of action plans linking with the cluster implementation of environmental. Communication.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So in the audit. So we measure the potential of showings of the film and the green potential we look so closely the asset of the asset of the marketing and the overnight. And for each marketing segment. So then based of loser data for example, technology, patent product, human research and environmental, for example, impact regulation and stakeholders. We define what can be the greengrocer steadily.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So between now include the segment of its market. For example, we can create screen map that show where the strategic business area based on cumulative close measuring and rate of market growth. The surface of the risk is too turnover of each.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So further, the environmental would it be to gain or the method used to set the business potential of environmental of each market segment of the company. So here we can, we can we have the value of a game potential of each segment, for example here for the segment two we have the maximum of green. So don't you.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So we've done algoritma. Be talking material he defined that is the best environmental statically to take to take advantage over the glowing green for each segment. So we have at this stage we can evaluate with qualitative with quantitative method. What is the green growth East readily? That can we use a two develop again product?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
He addressed an example for the different tools that can that we can use in this equal innovation methodology. For example, and it is doable over trees LCA statically well. Note 9 screen exit.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And the third step is to the application and especially assessing company during the application assisting company during the application of idea by consultants. Experience in innovation, management tools and training in equal design and especially here we have. We have company in need the experience and.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So Action Action Action plant can need the implementation of pulled over project related to the three is fair of face creativity. The implementation of focussed and rigors of alignment and communication. It is based on the action plan.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So to to explain easily our tools and our methodology we have developed. We have devoted. We have created a serious game, got the experience be tryna. It's unenjoyable tools to learning and warness rising based on. Clever border game and related education program so. This visa in this tool so we can we can find every all part of our model of of the created methodology.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So if I conclude in conclusion we started our transfer of equal design activities for training and PDF Gnostic of equal Designer to get them to put on the market for environmentally friendly product. We also meet unavailable world, tons of tools or method published study.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So in the second time, and to meet the need we have set up a training program on Equal Design Workshop and top level expertise.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Under 2 days we are approaching business with limited success because design between either the expected experience or the context method and we begin to invest with what we believe to be the future management of life cycle is to say so now and now we will work. So we work on server and the integration of social and associated. Aspect in equal design approach.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Thank you.
