So first I will present the language gap. Indeed I will show the application to three different semantic web tasks. So here's the full specification of the SDS for the SQL query language. So this is like a definition of an algebraic datatypes. So this was the object of a functional Pearl at the general functional programming in 1997 by Jarrett and what it rose is the Typesafe representation of a focus in a complex data structure. So for the zipper is simply the combination of the subtree under our focus on the context of that subtree in the global data structure. OK, so it's a way to open and close a complex data structure. So transformation goes from one zipper to another zipper on these used as a building step. It assumes you start with an NP zipper. What we need is to translate those ISPs to natural language on formal language. Unfair that I use Montags grammar, which were designed for the translation from natural language to logic initially. It supports it is used in a compositional semantics in natural language and it is based on Lambda calculus. On the concrete, Leah Montag grammar is simply a set of grammar rules where each grammar rule is decorated by a longer term that provides the semantics of the translation of 1 construct of the grammar grammar. Then the user translation that has to be done is translation to English verbalization, and in fact we can also use multi grammar there. The step is the computation of system suggestions, so this is an important part to suggest only what is relevant and unsafe. Overall, there is no general technique for this component. It depends on the formal language semantics and it depends on the safeness criteria. The user stands on the natural language sites because human speak English, French, Chinese. In fact, only a few humans speak both kinds of languages on, so can cross the gap to go to the machine. So now just to show you the effectiveness of generosity of the design Pattern, A present two or three applications to three different semantic web tasks. And to conclude, I think that the net design pattern is a powerful strategy to build bridges over the natural language formal language gap. Because users are never exposed to formal language, machines are never exposed to natural language and. Users cannot fall in the gap. So there are different kinds of approaches to fill that across the gap. This corresponds to systems that fail to understand the particular equation or cannot understand. Related approaches controlled natural languages where users must use a restricted grammar or lexicon to help the system understand the equation. They have an auto completion mechanism to ensure that the equations are well formed. Adult approach that is quite different is query builders where users still have to build for more queries and so they have to cross the gap by foot, let's say. So this is the problem of adequacy, which is a combination of expressivity on Safenet so. This is the proportion of paths on the bridge that leads to correct formal language sentences. So that's the design pattern to bridge the gap between formal language on natural language. A design pattern is a general, reusable solution to a commonly occurring problem. And it is not a finished design that can be transformed directly in source code or matching code. Eventual strong safeness becausw it arose for fine grained guidance during building we say more about this later. It offers a lot of flexibility because the building applies to a tree. But here you can put the focus anywhere in the in the tree on the insert a new node, or grow a new branch from that node. So the most common case that comes to mind is querying a query language, but I'll show you that this can be another kind of formal language as well. Bridging the gap with the person. So I take here the organized the schema of the design pattern as a suspended bridge where the pillar is made of abstract syntax. Trees produce zippers with zippers to present the notion of focus. So to show it more concretely, I will provide a concrete application of that design pattern where the task is semantic search on RDF data. So the IST's that are defined here are close to natural language, but much more abstract. Properties on nodes we don't take into account the flexion, so the genders or the numbers or conjugations and so on.