What the access module does is it sends this request to the local triple Store to retrieve all matching triples that are stored there, and then again in the same manner pushes them back into the join operator. We also provide cost models for the symmetric index estren opperator. So the cost of of 1 symmetric etc operator that joins two inputs A&B is actually made up of three parts. Then we have the cost for the 2% arrive on the right input and finally the cost for the access module. Each each operation that the operator does is of course done one for each trooper that arrives on the left input, which is given by the cardinality of the set A, which is the left input. Then we have to probe the other hash table for John results, which is represented by the weight vector P. Then we have to create actually create the join results and the number of drawing results created is. And finally. In many cases, these are hundreds of sources that have to be dereferenced, and these sources are usually distributed among a large number of providers. And in this way, the execution of the operator is driven by the incoming data. Actually treat the local data is just yet another data source and just process it as we would any other link data source. Is what the symmetric index has shown operator does. Mentioned earlier and we extend this with low access with pool based local access to local data. And what we want to do here is that load only data that is guaranteed to produce strong results. Reach data or we would have to wait for data to be read from disk and this is not what we want to do here because we want to be able to process remote data at any point in time. And to achieve this, we transferred the access to local data in separate access modules that encapsulate the access to locally stored data and indexes. Now this is an overview of the symmetric index session operator on the left hand side we have the the join operator which has the two hash tables, one for each of the inputs they left. And the right input is connected to their link data source retrieval component, which loads remote sources.