Actually, the most powerful admissible holistics nowadays are based on landmarks, so we know a lot about how to exploit the landmark. You can do the cost, optimal partitioning, uniform cost partitioning you can solve fitting set problems, etc. So I will explain the hitting set idea. Basically is given by a finite set of elements, a collection of subsets from from the set and negative cost assigned to every element a subset of element. We have the landmarks, then the collection of landmarks can be thought as a minimum hitting set problem. And then once we have a PCF you fix the PCF and then you construct what is called the justification justification graph for that PCF that basically the vertices are the facts and then you have an arc from that. So our contribution in this work is we present an algorithm for generating landmark that is based on principles. And this landmark can be used for different purposes. But the question is do we need all of them to get H plus or a good approximation of H plus maybe not? And then using that set of operators we compute the fluids that are reachable from the initial situation using only those operators. Think each contains a relaxed plan. If the goal is not reachable, then we can prove that the code that is formed by taking the fluent that are reachable in one side and this the fluid that are that are not reachable on the other side. You have a set of actions and then you compute the reachable fluens using those actions. Otherwise you compute the PCF just as I told you the justification graph, you simplify the graph a little bit and then compute the cut set in the graph and that will give you a landmark. You start with initial collection of Landmark, will be the empty one as as we did in the example, and then you compute a minimum cost hitting set for the collection. Otherwise, you extend your collection with the new landmark, and then you iterate. Impala time polynomial time be cause first you have to compute the minimum cost hitting set that's hard and second because the number of iterations maybe exponential so even even in the case that you could compute you could solve the minimum costing setting efficiently. Nonetheless, they flaws can be overcome in some way. You basically control the number of iterations. Thanks for doing that. In the paper there are details about how to modify the algorithm C1 into some variants that are polytime. How to use this technique of generating landmark for satisfying planning? You throw all the actions in the new llama into H that will be hitting set under the number of iterations is bounded by the number of actions, so that will be polynomial realization or approximation of this algorithm C1. It's a problem that results of removing the delete of the actions. It is characterized characterized by by a finite set of fluens. So for example, this is the only one that the goal and it needs preconditions, AC and D. It has cost one the 1st three operators are the only ones that are applicable at the initial state, that is, I so one way to reach the goal is supplied.