[0.0s - 29.0s]
Men that I see. Hi so I made a mistake this morning of inference from. Observation data from the past. So last time I drove to Brussels through this hotel, it took Me 2 hours and now 3 1/2. But anyway, that can happen. I'm calling to introduce briefly due to time. Otherwise I could talk for hours about this project, but if it Alas project also a framework 6. And you see a lot of partners, so I try to highlight all partners contribution without getting boring without boring you. And I will notice who is doing email and if it's too many, I will say something absurd and you have to notice that. Anne. So to summarize the.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
School is 3. Key ideas is that we want it to be use case driven, which is possible because we have two professional 3 professional user parties, one from commercial really commercial area. They sell pictures online. It's a news agency Belka the order to our archives for television data where one is really national. Archive for France dinner and the other one is more. Surface organization to broadcasters in Germany. That's irt. But we can see in our experience with the users that there's basically two groups, archivist oriented, and the commercial sales oriented, and you see some reflected in the presentation I hope. The second thing was we wanted to focus on large collections and how large is always a bit. Bit subjective, so I say largish, but at least to handle 10,000,000 images. And we also hope to handle 10K hours of video so technology that redevelop should be or bust against such numbers. I'm not sure if we're completely there yet, but we still have till the end of the year and thus I saying yes. And then this third thing was there is all these approaches where people do to intermediate representation of content in terms of concepts being detected semi automatically or automatically. And we wanted to try and see if we could scale up to a Dictionary of 1000 to 3000 concepts and what that would give.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Now it's really integration projects, so we have all these different steps like files. We use web services based integration so that all the researchers can easily enter and try out new ideas in the in the main framework. What you can notice here there is fee one and fee one plus and then there's early fetal and there will also be an early fee. Three. That's because even though we try to be opera software engineers and having a planning, there's always if you are saying yes. But I wanted earlier, so then we have to think of what features we give later, and then we still have a early version. So yeah, fee to light feet too early three lights. But anyways you can see there are a lot of functionality's and hopefully you agree with me that. Overtime they get more interesting from an innovation perspective.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Flights from. Now. Their main thing of having professional content owners is that they do have a lot of data describing the content. So. The to make the surface architecture work, we settled on what we call the exchange format and all the content is first translated into the exchange format that is used for all the communication between services. Coming back to the question about scalability efficiency that may need to be reconsidered a bit in the final stage of the project, because now all the messages are completely. This scribing all the intermediate results and that can be bad in a web service architecture, but they are very easy solutions about to address that I think at least. This activity is done by RT and.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And because it's IP, we really build a real system, so you even have needs like who can access more data. And we also tried to address that in the consortium. And now for the rest, I have spent about four minutes talking already and we have 11 partners.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
It's about one minute per partners Friday to rush up a bit and not everybody gets reflected as well. But I try to do my best, So what?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
We mean with use case driven. Well, that's basically we don't just do things because we like it, but also because we can convince the user party that it would be really nice to have and in some cases like this particular one it was even a question posed by the content owner, which is, I think, a very good and nice that we could help them solve their question. So Belka has this case where they need to help people. In this case it's Kia Client and they want to know. OK, can we order footage where our local occurs? That's a bit hard, because if your shirt from key at a locus usually not annotated by default, or prefer uploading a photo to Belka because they don't expect that key, I would be the search words.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And if you do Kia Local, it works much better because then you only have the ones that are actually annotated by the photographer. But you only get 10 pictures and we know there are many more. So. 1.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
After things, that area has been doing and I Media Group so improve the scalability of basically LSH type access structure to content based retrieval so that we can handle actually low. The local descriptors for a large amount of images. And. I think. I must have another slight, but it will come after this one so.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
They will be able to test it. They also created a corpus and for some of you this might be interested. Interesting so you can contact NASA or Alexie. Shirley and they can help you get access to this test corpus if you do things like sub image search by content this could be very interesting. At least Alex. He says that he cannot watch television anymore without seeing logos everywhere and he feels a bit app used by the projects for this irritation work. I'm. No, but I don't say.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Well yeah, we can handle on a single abnormal surfer machine. So basically the type of machine I have as my desktop machine at CWI, we can handle 20,000,000 images with global descriptors or 100,000 image set where there are 150 million local shift like features. And that's used in the local.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Search functionality and it seems to have pretty good accuracy as well, and it's definitely immediate. I'm not is it demos so you can take a look.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Interpol. Anne. Then the project set in the proposal that I went through the ocean to 3000 concepts for media search, cause media search and then there are three questions that you need to answer. One is actually what artist 3000 concepts in your lexicon. The next one is how to use that lexical. Because who can remember 3000 concepts, whether they are actually annotated or not, and how well they perform in the last thing is, how do we obtain training data for? Because most of the approaches are still mainly supervised machine learning method based.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Anne. So in the first phase we actually sat down and created a lot of manual data thanks to the efforts of in particular, Belka put a lot of spent a lot of time annotating images, and that's really the type of image annotation also do. If you participate in track fit so you get all these, all these images you annotate OK, does this concept occur or not? You do it by concept so you can get a high speed and annotate many images. So in that way we managed to do for about 600 concepts and every set has about 1000 X.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Positive and negative together. Not necessarily one doubt and positive examples for all their data. So how did we select electrical movies decided to tune it to the partner? So if you later good, commercialize the outcomes. There is some customization to a partner involved. And how did we do it? Well, we took all the captions from Belka and order locks in different experiments settings and then use that statistical test by comparing it to normal English language. And then you can pick up terms that are pretty important for the valkyr corpus. Or at least they seem to be. Frequent. And then you.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Get things like soccer and celebrity celebrities and championships and so these are things that are important for commercial news agency like photo sales departments. Anne. One question.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
You mean to Acacia? We define all these concepts, rebuild detectors for them with. How do you use them? So one thing we do in the project is that we app use Wikipedia for that, so each concept is being this December created by the annotators to describe clearly what is official representation of the concept that the detector should capture. But then it's also linked to a Wikipedia page that describes the concept as well, and we decided to be bit pragmatic. We just take make a small collection of all those Wikipedia concepts, and we rank those for any text query that the user might type, and then we have the concepts that might be relevant. So it's very simple, but it works actually quite well. We could see on track fit experiments. Now the Queen.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And that I like the most. Well, that's because it's also happening in our Institute is how to obtain training data for all these concepts and how to still expand the lexical and obtain training data without having to call back to Belka all the time. Telling them like we have another thousand concepts for you to do, because I don't think that would last very long. So the main question. We investigate it instead because we have access to the log files of the behlke search system. We thought, well, maybe if we use the log files we can actually get the annotations for the supervised learning for free. Who knocks? And of course there are many problems as well because they are noisy and actually the queries are not based the queries typed and later photos bought or images clicked and shown in large are not necessarily searched for the visual needs and that sort of detectors do.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
There's a bit of a gap. Now if you look at, this is about 400,000 image set that we work on actively in the current demo. Anne. We have manually annotated with at least one or 590 concepts. Almost all of them actually. Anne. But there is also.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Overlap of the church flock sample that we had pretty early on in the project, so it's about 3 months by now. We have much more ships log data, so this would start to look better and better, but the experiments are described where down on this second segment and then we see that are about 1000 images for which there are queries that we think match with 120 concepts that we have and we looked at.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Dentify a bit varied from how. Frequent they are so that we don't just look at very frequently occurring concepts or just it's very infrequent. So we took a biased sample of 25 concepts and worked on those to see if search locks would contribute to automatically for free learning concept detectors. Anne.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And then what can we say? Well there is this gap. Of course, between how queries are posed about concept detector should do. Anne.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
In but if you look at the results then we see that actually in most of the cases the effort position obtained. If you expand the set we have for concept with. Data from the shirt locks, then the efforts position of the resulting detector increases. That still doesn't say that it's really useful for search for end users, but I think it's a hopeful result and is actually published in.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
CIVR and you can call on the web. I didn't put a link here, but you can see on the fetal's web page for all of the concepts that are in this experiment. You can actually look at what does it look like if you use the visual information. If you expand it with the search lock with exact match from query terms or you do something smarter or you try even to use random box. Which actually the random walk part. Just to give you one detail about a research result was disappointing for us because Nick Castle had really good results with that, and I think it's because Nick has access to 10,000,000 type click pairs and developer site is used a lot. I mean, they can make a living out of it, but it's not that large. So but some in the 10 thousands of click pairs. So maybe if you would have the larger locks and try to combine them somehow, that would be very interesting setting. So I don't know if that's something for future projects. If you're interested, contact me. Anne.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Now speech search. Many people used to think of as being a solved problem, maybe after the SDR tracker track. But actually, if you think about it for multiple languages and. Complex compound is words like in German and on a large collection with lexical that is much smaller than actually the number of things that occur in the data. Then you may think otherwise, and there's still a room for a lot of room for research and for an offer. Coop manages to search. Now in 10,000 hours of speech data with a hybrid model in 60 milliseconds for vertical.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And. The actually that is based on combining the idea of scalable search that was published by Peter Chablis in 90 two I think. And traditional vert based search and by mixing them in a smart way they can get high performance and also could accuracy and a lower darity. The.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
. She finance cresa one of these compound terms works well, but I think again at the booth you can try out and see for yourself how well it works. Anne.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
The audio people also provide structuring of the video, and if you combined it then what you see in the search interface is that you actually can also skip to the same speed.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Or or the same gender? Or you know that sort of set up, probably from other projects as well. By the way, this is not the current fetalis interface, but this is just for that component to illustrate it. Structuring of the corpus you can.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Also, do with the visual contents, which is a lot of effort put in by INA. And here you see how they. Built short of. A clustered representation based on the visual data in large corporate video. This is done in close collaboration with the efficiency, scalability people from area so that they can actually handle large volumes.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
And they also extended for interactive exploration approaches, and this is really the archivists are really enthusiastic about this right? As the commercial journalist searching, I don't see them use this in Belka also doesn't see them use this, so you see for the different user communities, you do need different technologies to make them.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Happy at least and we will try to measure if it also makes them more effective. So one thing they developed in the project is this approach where you can browse. By doing a mouse offer in-depth cluster representation, you see actually happened and it is visually very appealing an we have enthusiastic archivist. So we need to see how it materializes into better search effectiveness as well. Anne.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And there's also the local map, which looks a bit more like the ostensive browsing principle from class, But all these things are done in $50, but not all of them end up in indicated project deliverable appears on. Anne.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So still the first we had some preliminary user evaluations. The rest of the project will do a lot more. I have to wrap up and. But users are very enthusiastic, especially both the audio search. Where they were septic a priority. They were very enthusiastic after seeing his work in practice and a local church records very cool to responses and also the general approach of searching with all these different access paths to solve the problems where you couldn't go further than the annotation in the past. Get a very good response.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
We also participate in benchmarks, but almost got offered it too much. So for the conclusion there are some cool results.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Ready out of the project? That's like the technology we make. Unique success or no scalability we make, I think in order to Fusion search locks that can be applied in any content on our situation. And maybe in the longer term there can even be short of an economy of search log data exchange. Who knows that's. I believe that that could happen. And then. Basically.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
What we do in the final year is further improve the scalability further close to loop between course media retrieval and indexing. Which is actually what happens when you use to search looks to improve your detectors. And to actually get the system running on the user sides and make the user parties happy that they didn't just help us get interesting research, but they also get nice. A prototype system out of it, and hopefully then they want to buy technologies that come out of the projects OK. OK. Questions. Boggle what kind of global and local descriptors we are using. Locals are probably the sifts and global, and there's so many specialized the global banks were, I think, 168 dimensions color histograms. But basically The thing is, we fill up the memory of the machine you have and then once it's filled up then we do it as smart as possible, but. It's only memory, yeah. Otherwise, we don't get this. Why you buy some more machines, ask Google. Oh no, Sir. Do you want to work?
