[0.0s - 29.0s]
Facilities like to say Avala to Miss Levine organizers thanks very much for inviting me to present. Today you'll find my paper in the proceedings if there's any extra details that you wish to find out more about, and I'm here for the whole of the conference, so just find me. I'm even reading email, so you might want to meet up with me if there's any particular detail that you're interested in finding more about. See if I can get this system to work. This is where we stand at the moment with negative textured Rd surface is on the right. Which.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Are supposed to give his lower noise lower spray. Less delay in the construction and on the left is where we used to be the hot rolled asphalt. Delais rotting noise spray and anything else you might care to blame it for. My.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Research. He's really looking at slippery dry Rd. Surface is not slippery. Wet ones 'cause we know everything we need to know about those, but slippery dry Rd surface is and is a little bit of history.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Awesome. So back in the 1930s.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
When we started testing roads for friction. We had wet skidding test devices. And occasionally we turned the water off when we wanted to see what happened. So in 1936 when we turned the water off, we measured high dry friction. So we stop measuring it. And then in the 1970s, when we're developing wet friction devices, we turned the water off again just to check. And it was still high, so we stopped looking. Meanwhile in the 1940s in Switzerland, a certain gentleman named ZIP code.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Decided to start measuring the temperature of tires.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
When they were braked on different types of Rd surfaces. And what he generated was the images of the deceleration of the tires. Without very much electronics at all. These little squares you see here were in fact 60 millimeters in size, and they were created with a diamond tip being dragged across a glass surface covered in smoke. But he was producing quite interesting information with relatively low technology.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And there's a device he used. Invest traditions of Hwy testing. That's a black and white photograph of that equipment was probably yellow or orange. OK, what we've got. On the right hand side there. It's a temperature plot of the temperature generated between the tire and the road surface. And we have concrete in the international language of Hwy engineering. Which is better? We have asphalt battle and we have stamped asphalt. Which is a very very heavily compressed material which was a mix of chips and asphalt. And the highest temperature was achieved on the concrete and the lowest temperature was achieved on this stamped asphalt where there was a lot of ash felt between the tire and the chippings. Now this is 1940s technology.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
This is 19 nineties 2000 technology. This is 40,000 pounds of infrared camera producing temperature outputs, and surprisingly enough, the surface where there was less beitchman between the stone and the tire. Could use to higher temperature. But what Mr. Shipka? Concluded I'll just take you back there. Is on some Rd surface is the melting point of the binder may be reached before that of the tread rubber, in which case a slip.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And coefficient will have a different value from that on which the rubber melts first. So if you remember this for later on, so this was 1944.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
In the 80s.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
We had an accident on our M4 motorway. Motorbikes were driving in convoy with a commercial small commercial vehicle. Which carried out a strange maneuver which involved jumping onto the other side of the motorway, complete with passengers. Into the oncoming traffic. The passengers tried their best to escape. But quite a few vehicles couldn't stop. The problem was when the police in.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Best rugated this was around which had a lower friction coefficient in the dry. Then in the wet. And the breaking distance in the dry was a lot longer than in the wet. This coefficient of friction that was measured by the police. Here. Was just all wrong. Something was very, very wrong.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
What it turned out to be? We have so much beitchman on the chips in the surface that they were actually reacting with the pressure. The tire passing over the surface to give a lower level of friction than in the wet.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Now, if you attended surf 2004, unfortunately I wasn't fortunate enough to do. Mr Fluffy presented an early life dry skin resistance. What he documented were tests that were carried out in the Netherlands on porous asphalt. Interesting Rd user behavior here. This is a test in progress. This is live traffic. The Volvo is attempting to dig a hole into the motorway. I would guess when you see that smoke you stop regardless of what side of the conjurer. But what was observed was for the same Rd surface. When you turn the a BS breaking off. It took 4 1/2 seconds to stop with the Absa.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
It took 2 1/2 seconds. No other difference, just a change in the breaking process. And this was a relatively new porous asphalt. On the.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Response was a very practical one, which was a sign which said longer breaking distance. No Rd surface becausw. It was a new road surface and the breaking distance was longer. And this research was initially published in 1997. In Madrid. A European conference on porous asphalt. Unfortunately, we weren't there in the UK. We were thinking about not using porous asphalt anymore so our bosses wouldn't pay for us to attend.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
In Derbyshire in the UK in 2001 there were two fatal crashes. One vehicle is there poking up in the horizon. On both of these locations, the police carried out dry skid tests. And the values of coefficient of friction they calculated. Well, what they consider to be well below typical. You notice here. It's around about .5 mu of .5. What they didn't publicize as well as they publicize the low figures with the fact that neither of these crashes were the result of this low friction. This particular vehicle was adapted for disabled driver. And the controls meant he could not steer and brake at the same time. Which is a pretty fundamental problem.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
But this is what was happening. With an ordinary Rd surface, a hot rolled ash felt they were seeing levels of friction of around about .7 mu. This is the surface they were testing where the accidents occurred, gave a value of around about .5. I'll say a bit more about this device that records these results later.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
What we had assumed back to when we turned the water off last. Was that the new negative textured surface is would perform the same as the old ones if we use the same chip? Because we know all about polystone value in all about aggregate abrasion value. We're using the same stone, so why shouldn't it work the same, especially in the dry? Because we don't measure that anyway. This.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
This is what's happening. In the Netherlands, I believe this is called Bittu plane. This is a new. Stone mastic asphalt surface. With a vehicle without a BS. This kid is certainly comfortable. So nice smooth experience such as you have in a toboggan or in an ice rink. But it's not really how you want your roads to behave in the dry. This is 1000 frames a second video, so this vehicle is moving at 50 kilometers an hour. We notice how little disturbance there is to the tire. A certain disturbance to the driver.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So we are obtaining values of around about .5. For our driving tests. This is a publication. This is from the. Institute of Traffic accident investigators. A summary of dry friction on roads in the UK. This is a summary of roads in the US and this is a summary of information I obtained from trials that we did in North Wales in the UK and what you will notice is around about .45 is not in the middle of any of these distributions. What was surprising was all this work that had been done in the past didn't really get mentioned when they crashes in 2001 would be investigated.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
The only people that mentioned it with the contractors, the layers of bituminous material, because they remembered when it happened last. They remembered back on the M4 when they put too much beitchman on the chippings. You got low dry friction. But the work in the Netherlands and the M4 site and even the earlier work didn't really get picked up on. So who did know most about the post about dry friction in the UK? Collision investigators did. You might notice the title of the road rush drive. I thought that was quite poignant. Because the driver who was rushing round this bend.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
But he didn't make it home. But in the process he left some interesting skid marks. Here. Because the police collision investigate.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Latest. Will make a measurement of dry friction using the seller ometer devices either on the windscreen of the vehicle or in the footwell of the vehicle, which produced momentary readouts of deceleration. Sensitive enough to identify whether the vehicle had a BS or not, and also to actually record the suspension banks at the end of the test, and that's either downloadable to her to Excel or it's available as a print out at the time with the two key statistics up there.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And you can skip test whatever you like. It doesn't even have to be yellow or orange. It can be white, it can be a Welsh police car. It can be black. It can be reports 911. It can even be a window cleaning vehicle which was confiscated from the owner for nonpayment of fines even with the Atlanta still attached. But you do a skid testing whichever vehicle and you download the information from the device.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Very broadly speaking, this is a difference you see normally between a BS and no a BS. Same vehicle, same operator, same speed. Look at the difference in the distance. And the estimate of the coefficient of friction is fed into very, very simple schoolboy or schoolgirl physics to generate information about the speed that the vehicle was doing around the corner when it started to lose control. All these equations are on the side of the driver, not on the side of the police, so this formula could be your friend. Unless you are very stupid, in which case it's your enemy. But that's simply a skid test you drive along and you slam the brakes on.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
On the police, recreate the scene logging the positions of all the important facts, including the skid Marks and then calculate the curvature of radius. Plug in the level of skid resistance they obtained and they can workout fast. You were going around the corner before you arrived into the tree or in the hedge. And.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
This is a resolution you see. For a typical Rd surface like a hot rolled asphalt, you see 2 tracks very close indeed between the a BS and the No. A BS. If you do the same test. On a surface with a thick binder film and this is a new hot rolled ash felt this isn't a new stone matrix or stone mastic asphalt. You can see the difference so.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
What's causing it? It gets better with time. Because these are tests of the same piece of Rd. Separated by around about six months of heavy traffic, so it does get better. It doesn't get any worse.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
What you see here? Is a thermal image of a tire on a vehicle fitted with a BS breaking. As you can see, when the ABS system operates, both the tire and the road surface are contributing towards a reduction in the speed speed of vehicle. You can see here both the tire and the road ahot, and there was a hot Patch on the road surface where the a BS was operating at maximum efficiency. This is yesterday's vehicle without a BS and as you can see beyond the first parts of the skid, the tires not really doing very much. It's stopping the wheels creating Sparks on the road. It's very cold. And we're concentrating all of all, the transfer of friction and stress to a small piece of tire. I'm not going to say how big the contact Patch is because nobody believes anything anybody else says about. How big is the size of your hand? Half your hand, a piece of a four paper, you name it. It's different, but it's small. Let's let's say it's small. What's?

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Opening that small piece of tire is. The vehicle is traveling over the road surface at about 13 meters a second. And there's a lot happening there. This is an image of an OAB S skid and the vehicles rolling forwards you see the white bit. That's the hot Patch that's at 151 Centigrade. That's getting quite warm. So if we. Take the basic book of Betjeman.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Cookery and feed in 150 Centigrade. We get some interesting viscosities. Now I can't check this viscosity because the road is not see through. It's not transparent. Tires aren't transparent, but this is taking that 151 Centigrade. So if we have a. 50 pen beitchman we gotta, uh? Viscosity of about .5 Pascal seconds. And what does that mean?

[957.0s - 986.0s]
It's about call somewhere between milk and SAE 40 machine oil. So if we are unlucky enough for our engine to spring a leak and then encounter an overturned milk tanker, that's roughly where we'd be somewhere between melted butter and corn oil. And I thought, can this great fact be used in any way and for?

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Patiently TRL were paid to cover a Rd with SAE 40 oil. Which is very nice of them. And there's a deceleration plot of when you stop on SAE 40 motor oil before you run into the pool of milk. And there you see the result. On a very very new, negative textured surface with lots of beitchman. What you also see when you do brake tests on the same surface is a greasy Patch on the tire. That's Next up. Analysis of what that actually is. It's gotta be something exciting because this kid test certainly are. There's a grease Patch I'll go into that grease Patch a little bit later.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
How do you get the data from all these skid tests and turn them into simple numbers? 'cause I'm a highway engineering. We don't do big numbers. I need a table of them. You recognize this trace as a skid test. It's a test that was done on a vehicle without a BS. So what we see is we see a large peak and then a slide. Using my big Dummies guide to Excel, it was possible to program a graph where I could actually step through the individual points of the graph to identify key locations that represented changes in the way the vehicle was breaking. At the same time, with a little bit more complicated Excel, it was possible to actually extract those values into a spreadsheet and then feed them into a an evil process called SPSS. Which, if you've ever encountered it, is for social scientists. So as a highway engineer would say, stand well, clear you something a little bit simpler 'cause we are. So this reduced. This complex time series into a key number of points. And I'll leave it to work.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
This is what I say about statistics packages being evil. But what we see here is a distribution of the average deceleration between the different Rd surfaces and breaking system combinations. This is this is the positive texture traditional surface with a BS breaking. Where are black or blue blobs? No, a BS on a modern, more modern negative dry surface is a green now despite the. Pattern here the variation. You will notice that the green tends to be the lowest. The blue tends to be the highest. The red as well, and the purple color is sort of intermediate. Because this is real data, we can't put best fit line through this because this is a real world, it doesn't work. Because what you have is a natural variation in the test itself. Luckily, the degree of difference between these groups was significantly high. Not to be particularly concerned about this sort of variation.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
This is a summary of a lot of information. This is the average sliding deceleration. Between. With a PS. The dry modern negative textured Rd surface typically stone mastic asphalt in the UK. Compared to our old friend Hot rolled asphalt. And what you notice is we're seeing generally better performance. Though it is possible to find a traditional surface that would perform as well what some more concern is when we compare. This style negative textured surfacing to more recent so it the new style to the older style positive textures. Then we see that without a BS. Quite significant number of vehicles still on the road network. The performance is worse. Minitab 14 I would recommend Minitab 14 'cause that's a lot easier for Hwy engineers. It's not as scary. The sort of significance of the differences.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Would make the hair stand in the back of the back of the head of any statistician. We saw a difference without a BS in the dry between negative and positive surface is very very highly significant. If you've got a BS on your car, this is a good one for you. In the dry, a BS is significantly better than no abso which you would expect.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
What the work did. Was enabled the bitchy planning event. This dry skid low friction period to be captured on film. We can see it happening. Also notice that what we're seeing in the UK was very similar to what has been reported on in the Netherlands, because that's where the majority of work in this area is being done. It's not just a high speed event, this is something that can happen on any road where you have a 50 kilometer speed limit is not a high speed event. And what you can also see.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Is an effect on a BS breaking. Because we thought with a BS brakes, we'd be safe. But this is a good one for the collision investigators. They love new road surface is because you see skid marks you don't normally see. These dashes are characteristic of a simulated emergency stop on certain new road surface is and you can actually see within the deceleration plot where the a BS deceleration drops to a level more typical. Of the test on the same surface without ABS, but talk to any. Police police and investigator and they will say yes. I recognize these marks.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Killer roads, that's a phrase that the motorbike magazine used to describe our new negative textured surfaces with reduced noise and reduce spray and less delay at Rd works. This article here. Do slippery roads lead to the tragedy? Toxicology reports on Mr. Taylor showed recent use of heroin and cocaine, the inquest said. So probably not remember 4% of crashes don't involve human factors and contributory factors. We are the main ones that caused the accidents, not the roads that we're looking after.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
I'm not working for Atkins, but I wasn't when I was doing this work for 2/3 of the time, so I'd just like to thank all the people you see there and the ones that I didn't find a logo for for all the assistance and this works. Continuing now through the Highways Agency Weir Atkins, we're continuing investigating certain elements of this, so I hope you found it interesting. I'm sorry I can't. Maybe not speaking your native language, so if you can find me, I can take a bit more time to explain anything that wasn't totally clear. So thank you very much.
