The list is pretty long, but currently she is research director and professor at the Neuroscience Center at the University of Helsinki since 2003, and then since 2004 and six she's head of Focus on Institute of Genetics and Research Center, respectively. Today I'm going to talk about progressive microns epilepsies, with the question of we on the way to precision medicine, and I have outlined my talk so that I will first define what is progressive myoclonus epilepsy, and then I showed the tell you about the evolution of how understanding of molecular genetics of PPMS or burgers in my Kronos epilepsies hackerd, and then I will tell you about our recent molecular genetics work that resulted in identification of the new PMS syndrome. The patients had mutations in non PMG. This could be for example sialidosis due to family days limitation because the patients didn't have a typical eye phenotype and many other examples like that. One surprise was that the majority of the patients in which we found a causative mutation had a dominantly inherited origin of imitation. And this case, ENC 1 Gene had not previously been associated with human disease. It was known that it was mainly expressed in neurons that fire so called high frequency action potential potential zan at this, typically inhibitory Copa ergic interneurons in the neocortex hippocampus and also cerebellar granule neurons. When we Co expressed it with the wild type channel, we saw that there was a significant reduction in the potassium currents, denoting that there's a dominant negative loss of function effect of on the potassium channel function. At this defines her new syndrome, which we call Meek my Concepcion, a tacky ataxia due to potassium channel mutation. And then we know now 20 cases and this just shows the families how they look like. So what was interesting for us was that the meek has a very clean, similar clinical presentation of unfair it Luneburg disease, which is the most common form of of PM me. POV very different diseases can have such a such a similar clinical presentation, so one is an dominantly inherited ion channel mutation and the other one is an auto summer recessively inherited mutation in a protease inhibitor, but I'll come back to that a little bit later in my talk. But we have been contacting or they also contacted us then contacted us and after the after the publication came out and now these compounds are being tested in cellular and also animal models that are being developed. So progressive myoclonic epilepsy is they are group of diseases. We have a variation due to founder effects. For example, in Finland we have a peculiar population history, and in Finland we have a prevalence of one in 25,000 individuals of PMS. But the problem with those is not all of them are covered in available panels, and then you pay me. But what is maybe most challenging is that the mutation that is most common in PME patients, their expansion, mutation in the cystatin BG cannot be detected in current panels, so that in principle all the PME patients should first be screened for system. And then there are 16 other mutations that have been reported that they affect. We have those patients in Finland quite a few and they have a more severe phenotype. They have an earlier age of onset, more severe myoclonus and more severe dystonic seizures and. And these patients didn't have EPM. One they had a much more severe disease, so they had something that was already evident from right after the birth, and it was a progressive microcephaly, and the severe developmental delay. Cystatin B or Stephen B. Mutants failed to associate with lysosomes. Anne Natasha's group has also reported that when there's inflammatory stimulus, the cystatin B may translocate to mitochondria and also that system in be in the nucleus, interacts with histones, HZH, B&H 3 and then, also with cathepsin L and then and then. Mouse model forces that in. In these mice, cystatin B deficient mice they are sensitized to oxidative stress including induced cell death. The clinical features so the patients develop normally until about 6 to 18 years of age, which is the age of onset. This particular diseases is belonging to the group where there is no major cognitive decline, but as you can see from the patient, so because of the Maya canuso them everyday tasks are very difficult, and yet the cognition is normal that if we would be able to develop some new treatment for the disease, so the patients would have much improved quality of life because their brain is otherwise working normally. Then about the pathology in the in the mice. Patients, and then there is a significant volume loss, especially in the cerebellum. So some words about the evolution of gene identification before the human Genome Project. So you need needed to have knowledge on the biochemical basis of the disease in order to find the corresponding gene and the famous examples on these diseases are factor 8 in hemophilia A or Bah gene in phenylketonuria and among PM is the GBA gene. You could also go into the database and look for for jeans in that region from the computer. But then from 2010 onwards we have lived the era of next generation sequencing or massive parallel sequencing where we can in one experiment quite cheaply and quite. Rapidly nowadays read through the whole exome protein coding regions of the genome or even the whole genome. Increasingly nowadays to look for the mutated gene in a patient. Able to clear that there all the web dot Excel so that the phagocytosis in capacity of this Misys impaired. The mice are more sensitive to LP's induced in the toxemia as shown shown here. As one of the vino ties. But then the myoclonus is the most severe presentation, and so it's been also discussed that whether it's an epileptic phenotype because in many cases, when you have Mayo clonus, you can see the EG. We mean modifying genes, genes modifying the phenotype. They have a nationwide study of PME patients and they were able to show that. So we had 84 unrelated PME patients without a genetic diagnosis we knew that they were all negative for mutations insisted in B and we we decided that we will carry out carry out a whole exome sequencing study.