[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hi so I'm actually not involved in this paper at all. I'm just presenting it so hopefully I'll be able to do a good job and get the idea across, but I'm sorry if any.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
It is not clear. So for motivation, an increasingly common scenario in many scientific fields where we have lots of data, lots of algorithms for processing that data to create different models of an underlying phenomenon, and the ground truth is either absent or expensive to obtain questions we would like to answer in these conditions is what data inputs are good, what algorithms are appropriate for processing the data, what is the optimal way of fusing all of our models? All of our model predictions an? What is the minimum? Uncertainty in the final few.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Prediction. So the idea of this talk is that the precision error of a collection of models can be reconstructed without any ground truth. As the number of models increases, the number of uncorrelated models increases rapidly in the precision covariance matrix becomes sparse. Given enough models, the covariance matrix of the precision error can be reconstructed using L1 minimization. Um, I hope to make this more clear and with regard to a computer computer vision task, which is what the authors look at. How should multiple terrain models be fused into a single best one and a possible answer is that the model weights could be a function of the precision error covariance matrix.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So with the test that they looked at. They considered digital elevation models where basically you have an image. You have this function here, so it's a photograph goes through an image matching process to produce a digital elevation map. So you have the XY coordinates of the land and then the function is the elevation, and I think the authors assume that they've been kind of matched so that all images contain the same ground truth. But of course all the images contains some error. Many, there are many sources of error, for example matching on occlusions and sensor positions and orientation and the ground truth is extremely difficult to obtain, so. If the errors were for instance like IID Gaussian, what you could do is you could take to fuse all these images. You could just take the average of all of the all of the images and the noise would average out. But the point is that, for instance, you might have several images from the same camera where the noise is correlated because of some inherent flaw. Maybe in the camera. Or maybe there's a lighting issue, so you want to find you want to find which images have correlated errors. So that you know you aren't. You aren't taking multiple images with correlated errors errors and then averaging them, which wouldn't average out.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Easier. So even though we're talking about images, I'm thinking about vectors, so each image can be written as a vector. The image ZI is a vector which is assumed to be the true value of that vector plus some specific error for that image. And what we're interested in is if we have M images we want to get the covariance matrix of this error for those M images. So how can we do that since we don't have the ground truth, how can we? I go about getting that covariance matrix and I think something clever kind of comes out. So if we do if we create. Of if we so if we create this equation. We see that if we take the square, the dot product of the difference of two images averaged over the pixels. What happens is when you plug in. This into here the the ground truth is going to add is going to disappear. So we can calculate this given the images we can calculate this value and it's equal to this and if we write out. If we expand this, basically we see that this expands into the dot product, so basically the variance of each image plus this covariance or minus two times is covariance between the images of the errors between the images. So if we assume that most covariance, so basically what we want to do is we want to estimate this covariance matrix if we assume that the off diagonal elements are most of them are zero. So most images the error is very uncorrelated. We can do this using compressed sensing techniques. So for instance this is between 2 images. Say we have 3 images. And we basically we take the pairs, all three pairs. So 1213 and 2 three. We can put that into a vector. Like this we can calculate this value. We can take these coefficients of this expansion and put it into a matrix like this. And then this the I mean these are the values of the covariance matrix that we're interested in getting, and so if you know if we if we assume that most of these covariances should be zero, we can we can solve that using L1 minimization techniques. So in many situations the signal errors are sparsely correlated and. As we have more and more images. The. The estimation of this covariance matrix gets easier.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Easier. So for instance, with M models, the number of equations needed to solve for all covariance matrix entries is this number, but the number that we actually have. Is this number so you can see that we have an under?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Determine system. And then here is the problem that the authors actually looked at. And this is, you know, something. I'm not totally familiar with, but they basically they matched. They had four photographs that they wanted to match, and for some reason they looked. So photograph A to photograph, be they treated as differently from photograph be to photograph a. But

[203.0s - 232.0s]
According to these equations, they those should be the same thing, so.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Not quite.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Clear on that. But they were able to reconstruct this covariance matrix. And see that, for instance, some of these images were negatively correlated. So what that would mean is that you could then use this covariance matrix to to more optimally fuse your images to get a better estimation of the terrain.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So that was very fast. In conclusion, the precision error of models can be recovered independent of ground truth when you have enough models, the structure of the covariance matrix contains 2 fingerprints, one how the data was processed in the second, the quality of the data inputs used to create the models. And this framework has possible applications across machine learning. When one is looking for the precision era of many models applied today.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Here are their acknowledgments.
