We also work with social good organizations, so we've worked in disaster response in partnership with MIT's Humanitarian Response Lab and have just started working with UNICEF, helping them understand. So large scale messaging across a very large number of languages, but most of what I'll be speaking about today comes from previous work that I've done, so I've worked in disaster response globally. My background is technical, so I completed my PhD in natural language processing. And if you took the estimated word count of every single book that has ever been published for all of history in any language, that word count is this small purple box here, so that's still smaller than the word count of what people are sending by SMS every three months. Work if we look at the size of the Twitter firehose. It's about the size of the dot above the eye in English here, so it's actually a tiny tiny percent of the world's communications, but nonetheless this is still beyond the processing capacity of most organisations, even very large ones. And you will see a lot of people stretching academia or using Twitter and similar social Media Research as a basis for looking at trends across countries. One thing excluded from this graph is email spam. So Robot generated speech will be bigger than every block here except for spoken manner. This is the largest and most linguistically diverse form of written communication that has ever existed at the vast majority of the world's languages have not traditionally used a writing system, and we're seeing hundreds of languages being written for the first time. Despite this, did we want to guess what the number of PHD's? If you look at other forms of near linguistic communication, so if you treated a Facebook like as a one word language by word count, it would make the top 5% of languages spoken. So as you can see here, the system that we have here at the conference aren't showing Sundanese script Sundanese script from the cities language. So be, I agree that you should be looking beyond English if you're working in text analysis when you're looking beyond English, you should be employing people in the other languages that you're looking for, or you just saw a great example of that with Donna and they should be in bracing the variation that you find. Being the top 1%, the number of people who speak Sundanese outnumber the populations of New York, London, Tokyo, Moscow combined. Sudanese is a variety of Arabic spoken in Sudan. We have a blind spot for knowing about the existence of languages. So this is the breakdown of languages that most of our data is moving towards as more of the more of the world comes online. So this was very true in 2010 when an earthquake struck Haiti. Most of the local services failed, but most cell towers remain functional. Paid crowd sourced workers in Haiti who are still employed as information professionals. So there's a hospital here is ready to take in those who are injured. I think it's really useful to think about well, how many languages can you encounter on a given day and how is this changed overtime. So in this particular case, it was a child delivery that people were able to respond to, so it shows that the local knowledge doesn't necessarily have to be in the country that you're serving. So how do we take this information processing for all the world's data? It has generations of standardization in spelling, simple morphology, meaning there's not many suffixes or prefixes that will go into words. There are less standardized spellings or less observe standardized spellings. And we can use that kind of knowledge to automate the identification of the variety of speech in the majority of the world's languages and therefore normalizing process it accordingly. So this was looking at communications between health workers, where we found that in just 500 messages there are more than 30 spellings for the word patient alone, which is odd Waller in this language and more than 50% of these variations occur only once. So to compare it to English, here are the variations in spelling of the word patient into shower and in the English translations of those messages. And then apply classification algorithms just took us from about one in five classification error to about one in 20 classification area error. Nitty performance Walla nitika. I worked in epidemic tracking, so there's only been one human disease which has been eradicated in the last 75 years, and that's smallpox. So in the case of bird flu, we can see reports coming out of Asia weeks before it was identified as a new illness for swine flu H1N1. The problem here is that these first reports are in a very, very large variety of languages, so the world's ecological diversity is really. This information is in plain language. We were taken in for the most part open reports globally in as many languages as we could. So we're using machine learning. Natural language processing to filter out everything that looked like a potential outbreak. If you go to the website we found, though there were earlier reports in natural language from sources as obscure as CNN, so three weeks before Google Flu trends in five weeks before the CDC, the weather person on CNN is reporting an increase. Presenting symptoms this is actually misrepresented for at the United Nations Global Assembly on Big Data and Global Development. This wasn't limited to emerging markets either, so we are also tracking any coli outbreak in Germany two days before the European CDC. Also done some interesting work with my team in Response Lab identifying reports about supply line interruptions. So to go over my my recommendations again, I strongly recommend to look beyond English. Employ people in the languages that you would like to focus on. So certainly it is more complicated to work in languages where you can't rely on consistent spelling, but normalizing these spellings is interesting and very worthy task in itself. I lived in Sierra Leone before I moved here to the States. And So what this means is that we have very, very quickly connected the world, and in some ways put in a phone in the hands of everyone is the easy part. So to give you an idea of what that language breakdown is, this is every human communication this year. So about 93% of our communications by word count are spoken. If every online picture is worth 1000 words, it would be double social media.