Dimension of the embedding second is the distortion of the embedding, and we also want to minimize the time to compute such embedding. So let me introduce our subspace embedding matrix. So then change anything and so there are two parameters of the L2. So here is our LP subspace embedding, so it's a product of two matrix. The first is the L2 subspace embedding and the 2nd is a diagonal matrix with inverse exponential to the power 1 / P on diagonal. So this doesn't matter because this is just a diagonal matrix and in this matrix. Four out of the distortion is slightly higher. So the exponential distribution has very good property called the Max stability. If for any vector in the end dimensional space and V1 to VM that is distributed according to this distribution, we have that this sum of IVI is distributed identically as the P norm of F * V. We we is also distributed according to this distribution. The natural question is why exponential distribution is better. The first is P stable distribution only exists for a narrow range of P. Basically, people want to do OK, so it cannot be used to construct subspace embedding matrix for P that is greater than two. So the second difference is that the lower tail of inverse exponential decreases much faster than the. So this is 1 / U U is distributed according to exponential. Then we use the property of lower tail of the exponential to conclude that with very high probability this distortion responded by D log D. OK. So that's why we need this to be deal ugly becausw Internet arguments. For over estimation, so the first lines Agama rewrite of the embedding matrix and the first inequality using the fact that the L2 SC only contracts the L1 norm. The third line we use the fact that the upper tail of the inverse exponential and the cost basically similar up to a constant factor. And similar arguments also works for General P range from one to two. Do you want this for all vectors X? And we actually can embed into the subspace into the L Infinity norm, so a good property of such kind of embedding is that the L in fitting regression can be solved efficiently by the linear programming. So I think I'm not going to discuss the details of the analysis here. So to show that the UN estimation is small, we basically use the Marxist ability of the expressions, which is the same as before, but for overestimation the proof will be much more complicated. So in the distributed setting we have K machines and one central servers, and each machine has a two way communication with the server. Yeah, and then the server solve the subsampled problems so that running time of the system will be the running time of decentralized version of the LP integration. So basically we get improved subspace embedding. Using exponential random variables and this improves all the previous work on the embedding time, embedding distortion dimension given the optimal almost optimal running time and improve the subspace, emailing also gives the improved LP regression. I be a subspace embedding which dimension M distortion cap and an invention time T. So Pi is the matrix of of M by N. So here is. Typical implementation, so the first step is to compute the embedding Pi M and then we use Pi M to compute change of basis matrix so that the MRI will have some good properties. Then use our. So running time of the first step is basically T the time to do the embedding and running to the second step increase if the dimension of the embedding increase and the right type this so the first step increase if the dimension of the sampling matrix increase. For example, when P is equal to 1, it can actually be solved by linear programming, but the running time is super linear in North, so click and get. So if we allow one plus epsilon approximation, we can further reduce the quality factor using the technique of subspace embedding. Here is a summary of our results. So why we don't consider 2 because two has already been made optimal by the recent paper by collection modules.