And after that I will take will take a short break an after the break will I'll talk to you about some example of kernels for structures because this is one of the very interesting points of kernels is that you can use kernel methods to work with the structured data like graphs, trees, sequences which you cannot do easily with other kinds of methods. Once you are able to compute Dot products, you're happy. What if the data sets at hand is not linearly separable, which is the case here. Wait, so you have a nonlinearly separable data set S? Let's say not simple, but just a linear algorithm. So the idea is if you have a nonlinear nonlinear, a nonlinear problem is that you may want to try to map all your data. And again, the crooks is that you assume that there is an inner product in this space, because if there is an inner product, we just saw that it's possible to find a classifier. A kernel trick, but it's not precisely the idea I'll come to it in a bit. So the current trick can be applied. And the key points actually on the way I'm going to. Kernels must verify mercers property. The technical details on the Mercers property are not very important, but it's just important to know that if you have Mercer kernel then it means that there exists a space H and a map and mapping files such that when you evaluate the value of K of UV then it's exactly as if you were doing the mapping. Of you to fire few and V to 5V and you were checking the taking the inner product between fire few and 5V. Yeah, you you have people that worked on non valid non Mercer kernels to to do classification. Here is a kernel trick recipe. First, you can see the the sketch and the drawing on the upper part of the slide. You have to express everything in terms of dot products. So I'm going back to the very simple classifier. The corresponding and hidden implicit H is of infinite dimension. For instance, you take the polynomial kernel K defined here. We've very simple kernelized classifier. Anne. The red corresponds to the blue OK, here the red here. You compute the gram, the gram matrix of K with respect to S. You'll see that. If you take the power of a kernel, imagine that K1 and K2 are two Mercer kernels then. So here is a partial conclusion. Is the kernel trick you pick your favorite linear classifier and kernelized it? Then we talked a bit about the Mercer's condition. Actually the again one that is the two that are very popular are the RBF kernels and the polynomial kernels. The questions that go with the with the kernel trick is an. Then there's a question of building kernels for a structured data. You can do very closely related. Algorithm which is a kernel Fisher discriminant. You can do a kernel PCA, so it's a principle component analysis. Why was it a breakthrough in machine learning? To solve an. OK, so I'm going to start with the basics, which is the hard margin linear SVM. So the setting that we consider is. The target space is a Y and we have a separable training space set that is called S. It's there is. I will just talk about binary classification. I want to predict the class of 1 one data saying that it's positive or negative. In a filter that can identify spam or regular Mail and the idea is that you have to train these machines so that you can. Accurately identify regular Mail or or spam. Of the data, whereas it's very, it's very easy for a for computer. A Canonical hyperplane is such that the closest point to the hyperplane verify www.x I + B is equal to 1 and 4 minus point www.x I plus basic is equal to minus one. The solution WB that we're going where we're looking for can be found by be by baby. It's not beats by by solving the following problem. But it's nothing. So, like I say, it's another formulation of the constraint optimization problem. So the mean of the Max of L and there is a theorem that you can find in many optimization book which say that L is concave with respect to Alpha and convex with respect to WNB. Then if you have this property that this function is concave with respect to the thing that you maximize and convex with respect to the thing that you minimize. Then you can switch the Max in the mean. And you have the same optimal points. It's a twice differentiable optimization problem, which means that. And the the remarks that I'm doing that the number of of variables that you have to consider is. We are this is a convex quadratic program. Is not anywhere here. And the last thing is about support vectors. So the Super vectors are those points for which Alpha I star is strictly positive. No, I'm going to talk about soft margin linear SVM. And then what I say here is that if you consider the soft margin the two norm, soft margin, linear SVM, then you will have to consider. The very important notions when you you you try to build a classifier is that you have a limited number of training data from which you try to infer model that you're going to use to do predictions an what you you aim at is to have a model that has a very low probability of error, that is, it has a very low risk. So to sum up you you just have a limited number of data, you try to infer model and you want it to be very very accurate on new data. Throughout this talk, 1st I'll call X the input space, the space where the data I'll be working on our leave. So the size of the problems scale with the number of data that I told you that before. There is a nice convex optimization problem that you can obtain and solve. It's very effective if you try. To let you know that the terms like chunking decomposition, active set, stochastic gradients, there are. Inner product as a similarity. What I want you to show is how the inner product is correlated to the fact that two vectors point to the same direction or not. Roughly point to the same direction. 1/2 of C + + C minus. An answer, the decision function is very simple. I said that I would classify points, test points X according to which of the two class means C plus or similar. So it's very easy to do that.