[0.0s - 29.0s]
So about the gendera, a project European project which is. Behind this event. It's about gender debate in European research area.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And the main objectives are facilitate the implementation of gender balance in science and create an enabling environment to integrate gender dimension into science policy throughout Europe.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And here we'll hear more about specific objectives. The three of them collect systemize and analyze experiences in gender equality policies and activities on gender balance and different research organizations and identify good practices for the empowerment of women. And discuss this case issues with top policy and decision makers and other stakeholders at national and European level. So these are the three specific objectives and they all mainly as you see, we have a whole session dedicated to good practices.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
He said the consortium partners. From 9 different countries and the project is currently. In its second year, finishing its second year.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Actually.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So these are the institutions as partners. As we will focus the session on good practices, let me just on one slide, tell you what was. What is the idea there. So what how we collected them? There is a database publicly available on the web with these good practices from different countries, so the idea was fine. Good practices which are working well which have some success. However it's defined. They show some sustainable results. They are embedded in a wider perspective on gender equality or gender mainstreaming. They can be duplicated in other relevant contexts, so it's useful for others to hear about them, and they have some innovative character or element.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Excuse me let me also give credits to the gender and National Taskforce members. We were discussing the relevant issues. These are names of the people from different Slovenian organizations, institutions which helped us during the project, and I hope we'll keep helping us and we will keep up goodwill as we started.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So about Jender, I mentioned some information is on the web. We have a dedicated portal. To science where we are trying to to combine science and arts. And there is also a description of gendera. There are some leaflets available.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Anik form by the way, material that is here you're welcome to take the material. If you didn't get something in your package already, or if you want to have more, so check in the break what is there. In addition to general project, which is presented at that website, there is another project somehow related namesys catalyst and I'll give you 1 slide are about.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
That in a minute, and there is also a presentation of summaries project and you will hear about that. A few presentations later, a bit more in detail, so I won't talk about it this.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The national projects. So C. Scott Ellis is European project. It's about children as change agents for science and SoC. And the idea of the project is to identify how children can be changed. Ages in the science and society relationship. To question a fundamental relationships between ourselves and our future children as our future. Bring transformation, finding new ways of listening to children with in the policymaking of our institutions, in particular universities, and the project is a lot about children, universities and how to bring science and knowledge and enthusiasm about science to children and listening to them how they would like to get it. Right, so a model of the project is think big start, small scale fast and keep going. And Liverpool University is coordinating the project and there is also publicly available material on the web. From our Department website, if you go under news there is also short video from a kickoff meeting of the project. So, and of course I'm happy to answer other questions or put you in contact with someone if you are interested to hear more.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
I think it's really, I mean a fun project. So I mentioned this website that we have science with our dot. I guess I let me just give you a top view of that. I would just like to share with you and this will bring us actually to the exhibition. So these are photos of some of Slovenian. PHD's which got PhD in computer science from Slovenian universities?

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And why science with arts? Because we got a young artist in this story an she designed a logotype which is this sign here. Do we have a book that if we have one now, the big one? Not really OK, so the logo is also on this small booklets. Which described the exhibition on the backside. And she also made a in silver. Some presents for these women in PhD, and they are unique, so they're all different.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Um? We also have made a virtual exhibition in addition to the physical value Seattle Lunch break, a virtual one which present profiles of women which PhD in computer science, electrical engineering and mechanical engineering and mathematics in Slovenia. This was just. My personal kind of selection of the areas where I felt women are really underrepresented. And it's not everything, it's just just to give people an idea what is happening.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
There. And this was from the opening of the exhibition for Computer Science. In addition to a virtual one, we have also printed the posters and this exhibition has been around for. Five years. And you will hear more about that later.
