[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you all for coming. We're really happy to see you. This is the workshop on getting started with open education. There may be a couple of other people joining us, but we wanted to respect your time and also we have a full day so we want to make sure we have time for all of our interactive exercises that will hopefully move you along in your thinking about open education and also how to begin or sustain the projects that you have at your institution. So to start off we just wanted to make sure that everybody knew who was in the room because we will be interacting a lot today. So my name is Mary Lou forward. I'm the director of the Open Courseware Consortium, the facilitators that will introduce themselves in a minute in this room are all part of a project that we've been working on for the past couple of years. Funded by the European Commission an it is on facilitating virtual student mobility with open education, so in a lot of ways, this presentation and presentations that you'll see here during the conference are a culmination of the work that we've been doing for that project. So if we could start maybe over here with Stephanie for a quick introduction of who's in the room and then we'll go on to more about the workshop. Well, thank you again for coming. I know some of you and I know some of you have a lot of experience in open education and others are just beginning, so we hope that you'll be able to. Find something that speaks.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
To you during our workshop, we wanted to just go over quickly, the schedule and the objective. So today what we'd like to do is make sure you have a solid understanding of what open education is and give you some concrete examples of projects that people are working on to give you information about Copyright and open licensing and how those can be applied in open education projects. And to help you develop a plan for either beginning or sustaining your project. And that includes creating a coalition or a group of allies at your institution, understanding all of the important aspects for open policy and then outlining a specific action plan that you can take home and use.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
You get on to other things, so one of the things that is interesting about open education is there is no one definition. So we wanted to just get some feedback from you about what do you think of when you think of the term open education. What's the first thing that comes to mind? Reusable. Cherry. Open. Open. Open to everybody. Can you define open a little more? What do you mean by open? Iaccessible uh huh? Accessible. OK, anyone else? So open is used, open education is used for.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Lot of terms, it starts with the basic idea and the basic idea is that education is already all about sharing right when teachers teach students, they share their information. When parents talk to children, they share their information. When society talks to each other. When scholars do scholarship, it's all about sharing and creating knowledge. So this is an extension of that. This is the idea that sharing is important. Education is important and open sharing makes us all stronger. It's a way to scale. It's a way to interact and it's a way to get things done in a much more efficient way.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So you hear all of these different terms when we talk about open education. You here open educational resources, open courseware, open data, Open Access, open practice. All of these things get very confusing very quickly because they all refer to this idea of open education. And with Moocs it refers to open enrollment, but not necessarily open information. So we are in a phase of the open education movement where we're striving for a common definition. And trying to figure out where it's all going to go.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
We want to focus a little bit on open educational resources, because in an institutional setting this is often what people are. Educational resources specifically are materials that can be shared to be reused and re purpose using appropriate tools including open licenses. And this is really in.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Portant so the difference in our mind between free and open is very clear. Free means it's no cost. There's alot of things out there that are free. Most of the information you can get on the Internet is free, but it's not open. Open then adds a dimension to it and that means that you can reuse it, that you can repurpose it. So free is no cost. Open is no cost plus the permission to change. And that's something that we think is really important. So you might ask yourself, what, why would it institution be involved in in open education? What's what's the motivation for an institution to actually do open education? And we wanted one of our Members who's at an institution to address that. So Fred, do you want to come up and talk with us a little bit about Huawei Open education?
