It is vaguely defined as any and all information that might influence the way a sin and the objects within it are perceived. As are basic units and as nodes in a Patch based graph representation of the input image. The special distance and this similarity between patches in this formula. Similarity is expressed in the simplest way by color differences, which implies that if it is proved effective, then the strength of our approach must emerge from the concept of context. In this sketch, for example, the contextual gap for patches V1 and V6 at the upper part of the sketch is lower than that of V1 and V3 simply because they are closer and more similar. At higher levels, apathy to contiguity affectively kicks in and gradually permits the merging of consoles. These are edges between patches of the same coxal that do not cross another Patch from that coxal. Since now they traverse patches of the same coxal their associated with. Saliency votes are accumulated in the image. Pixels that silence abridges traverse, although different ways could be used to obtain a dense map from the specially distributed votes. Saliency computation, visual saliency, may be defined as the degree to which a constituent in a visual scene demands our attention. Since we model context and avoid objects are model ends up much more flexible in terms of the nature of objects that may be detected as salient here, we show some comparison to contrast based saliency Maps. However, they are shown here to show how capturing large irregular discontiguous objects is limited when relying on centers around mechanisms. Instead, we introduced the concept of cocktails and showed how saliency can emerge from them. This improves the state of the art even before using object related information and allow us to capture complex, multiple and even abstract objects without any additional considerations. Thank you for your attention and let me take your questions. We first consider the visual context of a constituent. As the set of visual units that are used to measure its salience, and with this definition, the first group of approaches associate saliency with high contrast in some centers around structure, the constituent is regarded as the center and the surround becomes the context that defines contrast and US saliency, the second group of approaches, considers saliency as rarity. In the image and the context that defines its saliency is a set of other, typically few image patches derived from global image statistics, but these two types of visual context are not easily justified. So in other words, the visual information from which context is derived in previous approaches is not fully effective when it comes to measuring the saliency of whole visual objects. To what extent there's a visual constituent stand out from its context and the differences between methods lie in how to model these three parts. The constituent the context and the standing out property in particular this question. Implicitly assumes that we have a constituent at hand when measuring its salience. What are the properties of visual context that render the visual information it embeds as silent and the advantage here still stems from the observation that visual context needs not be an object or any particular type of structure that defies is, is it definition? We define a context element or coxall as a region in the image with the following three properties.