[0.0s - 29.0s]
Betteridge, Richard Lang's seven Haruskah and Tom Mitchell and I'm from the Machine learning Department at Carnegie.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So this work is part of a longer term project called Read the Web. The goal of that project is to build a system that runs 24 hours, seven days a week and continually extracts knowledge from web text and improves its ability to do so. And we want to do this with limited human effort, so the vision is to have a human interact with the system, say 15 minutes a day, and you can learn more about the project at that URL. Or you can search for read the web CMU on your favorite search engine I.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
2. So the specific problem that we're looking at today is as follows. You're given an initial ontology containing dozens of categories in relations. A company is an example of a category, an company being headquartered in a city is an example of a relation. You're also given relationships between those categories in relations and I'll describe those more in detail in a bit. And you're also given 15 seed examples of each of the categories in relations of interest, and the task is to learn to extract new instances of those specific categories in relations with high precision, and you, the system has access to 200 million web pages and can run for a few days.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So the general approach that we take here is that we can exploit the relationships that were given among the categories in relations through something we call coupled, semi supervised learning, and I'll present three algorithms which implement this idea. One couples the learning of textual patterns like president of X as a textual extraction pattern. Also coupled wrapper induction. So we'll use similar ideas to improve extraction from listing tables on the web. And finally, we'll talk about coupling multiple extraction methods, so I'll combine the first 2 methods that I talk about. Combine their predictions to receive reach.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Even higher precision. So this is worthwhile for two reasons that I'll talk about first. Semi supervised methods have shown promise for information extraction, but they suffer from a problem called divergents or semantic drift and a few people have pointed this out. So if we can improve this, there's the potential to make advances in semi supervised machine learning and also the extracted knowledge is useful for many applications including computational advertising, search question answering and also this fits nicely into this morning's great keynote where. Our methods could be used to, say, extend or create the catalog in.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Assume its vision. So to give you a picture of the pattern learning methods that we build on this is bootstrapped pattern learning specifically for countries. So if we start from some seed examples of countries, we can go to the web and learn some patterns which we can use to extract more instances and then we can use those patterns to extract yet more instances. We can use those new instances to learn even more patterns and so on. So we iterate this process.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The problem with this is that there's this phenomenon called semantic drift. So if we just do this for countries and we start out with some seed countries. And in this actual example, there was actually a set of 15 seeds used, not just five. If we take all of the patterns that occur in a very large web corpus with the seed examples, we filter out all the ones that only occur with one seed. So we have patterns that occur with two seeds, and then we take the top five, ranking them by. Share of their occurrences. We want them to occur with seeds. The largest fraction of all their occurrences as possible. So what happens is we end up with these patterns. War with ex ambassador to axe, and so on. And unfortunately these are far too general. So if we use these for extraction then we'll extract things like Planet Earth Freetown in North Africa. So we've diverged from countries.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Then go into something much more general. And so the idea behind this coupling coupled supervised learning is that we're not just learning, countries were actually learning cities, companies, athletes, sports teams, and in fact dozens of other categories in relations, and so we know, for example, that countries and cities are mutually exclusive categories, so they can provide negative examples for each other, and we can exploit this, and they're actually a whole bunch of different mutually exclusive relationships. Among these, just five functions. We're also learning relations like cities being located in countries companies being headquartered in cities and athletes playing for sports teams, and we can copy couple of these relations with the categories that correspond to the types of their arguments. So we're gradually building up sort of more and more coupling, which we connect.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Flight. Now. We can exploit these these coupling relations in pattern learning, but we can also exploit them while inducing wrappers to extract lists and tables of cities and countries and instances of these relations. So for each function that we're learning, say headquartered in extractor or accompany extractor, we're actually learning two different approximators of that function. So what we can do is require them to agree with each other and yet add additional coupling to this picture, so we end up with this sort of tight. Nested constraints which we can exploit to keep the bootstrapping process on track.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So next, I'll talk about specific ways in which we exploit this coupling, and 1st, I'll talk about how we use mutual exclusion relationships to avoid semantic drift when learning textual patterns. So here's the example which we saw before where we had these country seeds and we learn these overall general patterns, and we ended up thinking planet Earth was a country. Through the mutual exclusion relationships, we can obtain some negative examples of things that aren't countries. So Asia, Europe, London, Florida and Baghdad. And when we use the negative examples to rule out overly general patterns because, say, war with the rock occurs on the web, so we know that it's not a good country pattern, then we can constrain the set of patterns that will consider. And you know these are actual examples from the system, will learn much, much more specific patterns like nations like Axon countries other than X, and so if we use those for extraction we get what we want.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
We can also use the idea of type checking, so we have this pattern X which is based in Y which was learned for the headquartered in relation. And so it extracts a candidate pair of the headquartered in relation pillar headquartered in San Jose. It turns out this is a positive example. Pillar is a company in the data storage sector and so we can actually use the company classifiers that we've learned to type. Check these arguments so companies such as Pillar is one of the patterns that pillar occurs with. That's a positive pattern for companies, and San Jose occurs with cities like San Jose and. And a whole ton of other city patterns. So we can use this to type check, but so the text on the web also occurs inclined pillar, which is based on the foundation plate, and so if we use the type checking we can easily see that incline pillar doesn't occur with any city relevant patterns and foundation plate doesn't occur with any city patterns. So and so I should just say. So the specific name of the algorithm which implements these two ideas, mutual exclusion and type checking, is coupled pattern learner or CPA.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
For short, so now we'll talk about how we use coupling to improve wrapper induction. So we built on top of a state of the art wrapper induction system called seal, which stands for set expander for any language. This was developed by Richard Wang and William Cohen at CMU, and Richard is one of the authors of the paper. So she'll take some seeds, in this case Ford, Toyota, Nissan. It finds webpages just through search queries that these seeds occur on, and then it looks in the HTML of those pages to try and find wrappers which are templates that you can use for extraction. So here it's we, bracketed the occurrences of Ford, Nissan and Toyota. And we learned this prefix and suffix template. When you're extracting relations, you have a prefix, infix, and suffix. Just a 3 three piece instead of two piece template. And so then since the seeds occur in this consistent context, it appears that this is indeed a list. And so we can extract.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Honda and so we can use this idea in the same sort of bootstrapping loop, where we start with seeds and instead of learning textual patterns, we're learning seal wrappers.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Now the question is conceal benefit from coupling, similar to how the textpattern learning did? And so. Our answer is yes, it can. And here's an example to show how. So if we were trying to say learn instances of the academic field. Category we will start with a query like economics, history and biology. And among the pages will find is this particular page which is a form for the University of Maryland alumni, where you can fill out some information & up for a mailing list. On this page you can see select what your major was and so this actually turns out to look like a fruitful place to extract more economic or academic fields from because it contains things like economics, history and biology and socio will learn a rapper which extracts from the HTML the option tags which specify the options for that drop down box. Which sounds great, except that the exact same wrapper then extracts items from other dropdown lists on the page, and so when you get the results back from seal for this page, you have a bunch of states in there as well as years and gender as well. So it turns out that out of the box seal has a problem with this page, because it will think that Arkansas as an academic field. And so we can use coupling here because we know that states in academic fields are mutually exclusive, we can use the fact that Arkansas is not an academic fields to say this wrapper is too general. It's not actually extracting just academic fields, and we can filter filter out rappers. That seal would have used otherwise. And so we call the. We use a similar idea of type checking to what Cpl does and we call.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Method coupled seal. And the last algorithm will talk about is called Meta Bootstrap Learner or MB L and a couples multiple extraction techniques. So the idea here is that pattern learning and so many structured information extraction or wrapper induction are very different techniques. They should make independent errors. So if an instance is recommended by both systems, we can trust it and so this strategy only promotes instances which are recommended by both system.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So to experimentally evaluate the impact of adding coupling to these algorithms, we consider 76 different predicates. There's 32 relations and 40 four categories, and we run each of these five different algorithms for 10 iterations. They include better bootstrap learner. Which only promotes things as I said, promoted or suggested by the two constituent systems. There's coupled seal and couple of pattern learner which I described earlier. And then there's one coupled seal which is just seal run out of the box in a bootstrapping loop and uncouple pattern learner, which is the very first example I showed. And then we evaluated the correctness of the instances promoted by each of these five runs with Mechanical Turk by sampling instances that were promoted.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And so if we look at the precision of the instances that were promoted first for categories, we see that meta Bootstrap learner was by far the most accurate. At 90%. The two individual coupled methods were still a respectable 78%, and then the uncouple methods did significantly worse. For relations, the story is similar, but not quite the same. Medical strip learners. Again, the most accurate. The couple of methods are still around 90%, but seal itself is still at 91% and it turns out that the probability so relations when you find a, say, Microsoft in Redmond, Co occurring on a page in a consistent context and say you know Yahoo in Sunnyvale, it's unlikely that this. Is some other noisy relation. It tends to be. So the the coupling doesn't doesn't help as much, but the recall is fairly low for seal, so I don't have time to go into them, but paper presents significant tests comparing the couple of methods to their own coupled counterparts and also tests comparing the different pairs of algorithms at the same level of recall. So in this case these numbers were for the aggregate, not at the same level of recall, so you can find those in the paper.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Just to give you an example of the types of information learned, we learned that the Solomon Islands or country that stuff is stuff. It is a product and marine industry is an economic sector. We incorrectly learned that the sport of soccer uses the equipment player. It does make mistakes. We learn that Unical is in the economic sector oil, and we learned that Final Cut Pro is an instance of software.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
To give an example of the extraction patterns learned blockbuster trade for X is an extraction pattern for athlete airlines, including X is a company extraction pattern. Personal feelings of X emotion X announced plans to buy Y Company Company acquiring come.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And so on. If we look at the error and else if we perform analysis of the errors, we find that the worst performers are categories like sports, equipment, products type traits and vehicles. And really, the proper nouns do the best and actually there are many more proper noun categories, and there are common noun categories, and so I think the good news here is that the common space really isn't built out very much. I think if we add a lot more categories in that space, they'll provide a lot more evidence for each other and they should improve. So the story here is learning more functions. Should improve the performance of the ones that are suffering now.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So conclusions we've shown that coupling supervised learning of categories in relations can improve free text pattern learning, semi structured information extraction and also can improve separate techniques that make independent errors.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
In future work, which is actually ongoing work, we're looking at adding more components to the picture. So in addition to the two I talked about, we're also adding a morphology classifier which classifies instances based on just the content of that string. Andrew Lerner, which can learn to infer new instances of relations from ones present in the knowledge base that we've already learned. We're also using more predicates, so over 100 categories, more iterations, which has required more efficient code 'cause we're working at web scale. More data, so we're now extracting information from sense of the sentence is in the clue Web 09 collection, which turns out to be 2.5 billion. Unique sentence is. And all of this has led to some promising results. So from a recent run of the system which took six days, we extracted 88,000 facts with 90% precision and this is compared to nine 9500 facts extracted by MB L at the same level of.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Vision. So we wanted to knowledge Jamie Callan and his group at CMU for providing web corpora. Our funders, and especially Yahoo for providing us the M45 cluster, which is really, you know, we would.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Able to work with the scale without it and also you can find a lot of materials online at this URL, including the seed ontologies we used. All of the promoted items by the five different configurations. I talked about the patterns learned an also Mechanical Turk templates that we used in cases would be useful, so thank you. Have you worked with any datasets that give you some opportunity to measure recall, like the track data? Not yet, that's a great question. One thing that we can do is look at. Without looking at specific datasets, we can also look at. Specific closed set categories in relations, and so I don't have the exact number, but the system does a good job in this particular run of learning something like 250 categories or sorry countries and then stopping so it seems to in this case find the boundary of the set and stop, but we haven't specifically looked at.
