Here in college is going to talk to us about Gaussian process regression bootstrapping. So suppose we have a mechanistic parametric model M which predicts the values of responses Y1 and Y2 at time T given some vector of parameters Theta. Another alternative then is the parametric bootstrap, in which we first bit a parametric probability model to the data, and then we draw samples from that probability model and it's this kind of approach that we're interested in here. And of course, given that we are interested in this kind of approach, the first question we have to ask is how could we fit such a parametric probability model to our time course? Now, Gaussian process regression proceeds by first placing a Gaussian process prior over the unknown function F. And all this means is that given any finite collection of function outputs, we assume that that finite collection is jointly distributed according to multivariate Gaussian. Properties of multivariate Gaussian distributions, which tell us that the joint probability distribution of any finite collection of the function outputs conditioned on the observed data is again multivariate Gaussian. We have a parametric probability model for our time course data. Adopt A Bayesian approach, and that way hopefully you would avoid just missing some nearby plausible parameter estimates. But in any event, since that represents the realistic level of noise in the data, it suggests that when people report these gene networks, they should make sure that they assign as they say. So just some quick thank yous to my supervisors, Michael Stump and Sylvia Richardson, so the rest of this junk group answer my sponsors, the Welcome Trust. Would we expect to obtain a similar estimate of the parameters? Ideally, of course we wouldn't need such an approximating distribution at all. We would just repeat the experiment time and time again, and for each one of our repetitions we would infer the quantity of interest, and then we'd see how that quantity changed over all of our repetitions. So one statistical alternative is the nonparametric job in which we sample repeatedly from sample repeatedly with replacement from our original datasets. We typically happy replicates, so it's very hard to apply, particularly without destroying the dependence of the data upon time.