What we say is that we have a solution when the graph is a DAG directed acyclic graph an let us assume that this is the case. And if we define G to be the set of all paths in the DAG, so we still get at first sight an exponential number of groups. Cost for every group correctly. So very quick introduction to network flows if you understand me with that, I would say maybe very simplified introduction and just going to introduce what I need an there are very nice reference if you want to know more about network flows. These flows can be decomposed into pass flow. Which we're going to exploit, and basically the main message here is that we get an optimization problem over all the paths in the DAG, so we get an exponential number of variables. And I guess that you are now all expert in proximal operators, since I'm very glad that we have plenty of talks before introducing that, so I'm not going to do it, but we can as well compute the proximal operators of the nonconvex penalty and of the convex penalty in polynomial time using some network optimization an. What you have here is the metabolic network of the building East. An so we get a gene expression data with about 8000 genes. This is we have a binary classification problem. So basically we just order, only choose our directions and we move cycles in the graph. And to evaluate the error rates using 80% for each one, we use 20% of the data as a test set and 80% for training and. So Patch based approach where we extract all overlapping patches from an image which are noisy. We do a sparse approximation of every Patch, so we can assume that we need a dictionary for that. Can we replace replace subgraphs by something else and the unsquare was quite similar? So in fact the the so he won't get hard, have proposed the penalty, which is a bit marginal that supplies into the to some specific case of positive or graphs, but marginally they will consider a penalty that given a set of predefined groups of subsets of variables which perceived overlap, they built a penalty which encourage the pattern of non zeros of the solution W to be a union of a few number of groups. This inner product and you can imagine with a bit of abuse of notation some binary matrix and here such that this constraint here is exactly this constraint here. Tell the old pairs of vertices linked by an arc to encourage a bit of connectivity of the solution in the graph, But this only models local interaction, so it gives more connected solutions than L1 for example, But still this is very low coolant. We ask yourself, can we find another structure which is a bit richer? So the question is, can we replace connected subgraph by something different which is rich enough to model long range interactions in the graph and leads to things that we can compute?