For choosing to solve the prime or the dual problem, we think that we should consider the problem that has a better initial point that is closer to its optimal. So the training time should be less. The primal initial objective value is shown. So eventually it's the same or optimal solution of the original problem. Describe the virtual as well and the data distribution of the old instances in the new instances are the same. Well, so under this idea would think that the primal initial objective value should be very close to our new optimal. On the other hand, for the dual initial value, we can see that. An hour analyzes in decremental learning for the primal. Term so because of this minus term, we think that the dual initial valuation should be too small. When we do not have a good initial point like like them, low order information, lower their optimization method may be better because it can quickly converge to an acceptable point as shown from the left view. For example, as the circle show in there so. And in our experiment, we will use three different optimization methods. The well will check that if there are any additional information we should maintained in addition to our original model. For the original problem. And so if we are using warm starting or primal problem, which in any any additional thing because we just use W star and for for solving the dual problem then we need of a star as we mentioned earlier. In our experiment for incremental learning, well randomly defined our data into our hearts and take our minus one part as originally training data. After obtaining the optimal solution, we will take the whole data set as our training data for incremental learning. So first, when in classification if we have some very few data points added or removed, then we can use incremental or decremental learning to quickly update our model. But there are some issues saying using this techniques. In conclusion that we think Warm Star is most suitable for a primal based high order optimization methods, and because of the following three reasons, the first one is that it can give warm start can give Primal primal problem a better initial solution than the dual problem. And Thirdly, for the high order part, because one star can Canmore effectively speed up high order optimization method. So an in this work we will focus on linear classification, cause for kernel methods. The model is is a linear combination of our training instances and therefore our optimization methods is very restrictive. An on the other hand, for linear classification model is very simple weight vector of the features. We assume that the optimal solution of our original primal and dual problems RW Star in August, are respectively for Primal, Primal, Primal. Problem will use W Star S or or new new initial solution of the new optimization problem for both incremental and decremental learning, and the reason of that we can use this double stars that even though the data points are. The features are remained the same, so there is no problem of using it for the dual problem.