With a lot of applications in research and education. Also adds semantic, semantically enriches the data, so it adds. One describes the infobox of Unlist infobox with their types. This means that for each assignment satisfying the left hand side query, we create this fact on the right hand side and for the existential quantified variables we created unique fresh values for each assignment from the left hand side. Nothing here implies that the values the new value that we should use for this variable which we create must be the same. What happens in the mapping? There is an important restrictions also of this language, so we never have binary predicates in the conditions. Then also nested conditions are also not nested and this intermediate node node mapping is also noted nested, so this leaves us with a nested ease of fixed depth. They also has expressive features, so we have the negation on the left hand side of implications. So we have some special functions in the conditions and we can have also some string and Gordon is manipulation in the in the target. We define the semantics of updates in this DPS setting. As we are starting with the DPT update and it's a pair of ground atoms so we have. So we have this two or three minutes, several common properties, so they of course they must comply with the infobox schema. We have the possibility to query the data in Wikipedia. Of the data through the ontology and ontology based data management. Question if given an insert, can this insert be accommodated in the Wikipedia in the infobox schema? We consider each subject of the in the Wikipedia page separately. And we also construct reusable patterns of update translations. We also we need user interaction here to choose the translation of an update and then after we did it for a single subject for a single Wikipedia page, we formalize it as a pattern. We formalized ADPCM mapping, says fixed depth, nested TGS with negation on the left hand side and unary interpreted predicates. The worst case to find out if it's possible to accommodate it in the infoboxes. We also have property disjointness. Those same message only you, so we don't have equalities between different concepts in the picture they used to reference to external ontologies, and inside the DPJ there are redirects 2. Well, first of all. Which is based on implications on the left hand side. We have a usually general formula, first of the formula in the right hand side is a simple one is a conjunctive query.