Well, in this talk we will propose a framework for the automatic recognition of Dialogue Act in Natural Multi Party meetings. It's the ratio between the local term frequency and the absolute term frequency and is close to 1 four. Practically everything can be considered as a fact or stuff like part of speech tags, the work themselves, or even morphological classes, the unit, and so the goal is like in standard language modeling is to factorize the joint probability associated to a sentence. In order to compare different factor language models, we use a simplified date tagging task. And we integrate a simple DNA daggering to sin and took it. The result achieved using our best FL and model and 3D fan testing condition using a model train arrive and Sentinel reference trained on reference in testing on the ASR and trained and tested on ASR. Are directed probabilistic graphical models which use nodes to represent the random variables and direct parks in order to represent their conditional independences. Sorry this one where BS where DPS are the extension of BS. Filter extension of deviance, which are able to change their topology in according to the state of some internal variables which are referred as switching nodes. Did this node called DA Boundary detector which switch between these two operative states in? This one, which is operate within the units and it assumes that the the word sequence it's it's part of single day unit and it takes care of updating the joint sentence probability estimates by using the FLM. Operative State is the one in which. You need to gear units is likely to be to be present. In this case, the model will take care of. Managing their transition between the two different units integrate by integrating the discourse model probability and it takes care of updating the DNA recognition history, and it also takes care of. Is the boundaries and false alarms? We also use this acid like metric with, which is practically the word error rate used in speech recognition, with were replaced by the unit. An alien metric weave. And we imposed the ground through segmentation by forcing the boundary detector node. Evaluation and they are. Anyway, better than doing the tagging by chance or by chance and. Automatic segmentation results which are close to the state of the art in the reference transcription in the experiment made on reference transcriptions, we can say that. Of multi party meetings and they can be used in many other research areas like automatic meeting face detection or automatic summarization or topic detection and the overall aim is to provide the system for the automatic meetings structure and to facilitate. In particular, the system trained on ASR and tested on ASR work works better than the one train or reference transcription and tested on ASR. To conclude, we have addressed the task of the automatic recognition of five brodier categories, make proposing a switch in Debian based approach which is used to integrate. And I further genius set of technologies like like factor language models and continuous features. This graphical approach encouraged the reuse of common resources and the joint approach operating on a wide search space make possible. In particular, we have good recognition with the ASR output, in which 29% of word error rate leads to less than 10% in degradation in the derecognition output. Dialogue acts are the building blocks of a conversation. Since they reflect the function that utterances serving and discourse, and they can be. Of meetings, both in terms of content and structure, and it's fully annotated in term of dialogue. Act for using the meeting Recorder Dialogue Scheme, which unfortunately leads to more than 2000 unique gay labels, which means that the distribution is really imbalanced. We are interested in a joint approach in which we perform dialogue segmentation and classification. Currently in single step instead of doing it sequentially. Some other subsystem like factor language model which is used to model word sequence of words in the units an we also use the discourse model which is a trigram language model built on sequences of the labels and a set of six word related continuous features which are mainly used. The multi Channel audio recordings are used to extract 6 continued work related features and also to field an automatic speech recognizer which will provide transcriptions. And the transcription are used by the factor language models and work. Our goal is to estimate the degradation of using an imperfect transcription into the recognition output.