However, then on the second level we have neural control and I will take you through the neural control step by step. Known to you maybe is that animals sometimes have so-called central pattern generators. The lower floor, which would be in Y in white and the upper floor, which would be in Gray. First you see the infrared signal and then you see the accelerometer signal. And clearly as soon as the machine is successful, you only see the infrared signal. Now what you can see here is the leaning of the upper body component. So that is what you can observe on this slide. It assures behavioral stability at least to some degree, but the problem is that reflexes are always too late because you have a sensor sensor gets triggered, then you have a loop delay. Components here spinal cord oscillations as well as reflexes down below. The oscillations that central pattern generators and then we have a brain. So as you can see, the outer loop doesn't carry the T, the temporal delay the inner loop carries the T, which means the signal arrives at sensor one later than its sensor 2. You have now, effective efectively removed the inner loop, which means the pathway has become a pure feedforward pathway. It's just a phase shift, so we can neglect that, right? This is very nice to do this on this diagram, so here's our disturbance and we first treat the outer loop so the disturbance runs around in the outer loop, right? And as it's a unit pulse it will just get multiplied by the transfer function of the environment. Can never be integrated into the transfer function of the agent. It's a necessary condition, which means every entities, every entity whose effects are fully predictable could be part of your body. Right, that's a necessary condition, and here's some examples. Predictable aspects into their own transfer functions. Well, sufficient conditions are that to be part of your body, the entity from which a predictable event arises should be proxamol and causally linked to your currently existing body. So never moves right. It has to be movable, right and clearly. He's in front is a funny one. But you cannot integrate the sun into your body image. And there's a second sufficient condition which is to be really integrating an entity into your body image. It should be there for a longer time. If you take a robot and the robot grasps a hammer, right and really holds the hammer. These visual primitives that look like this. It's also a model free grasp, so there's no cat model, no nothing. It can become part of the body image of the machine. Which I couldn't do before. That we were able to reliably, if you wish extend our body well, the strange notion. The people had trained a monkey. Because the poor creature couldn't get the food in any other way which was the monkey was in a cage and that's not shown here, but you know, we had to use a Rick to get the food because the food was outside. When the monkey was just playing with this tool, so there was a monkey in a normal cage that could food get food. The temporal extension of a body image has been taken place for this animal after training. What we can do is we can integrate it by ways of this process into a body image, and now we have a transfer transfer function which is H / P two as opposed to the original age. And there were some statements in the literature that said you know cognitive agents have to be fully situated in their world. That would be one possible statement. This situation here an open loop system that is lack of situatedness, which means there are inputs, their outputs but the agent. This is situated in a switches for a control engineer a closed loop. So systems that are not situated and not embodied, so there's nobody, right? What is this? That's you know animals and robots, basically us most common biological systems. As long as they obey the necessary and sufficient conditions described above within their own world, right? You can build this mostly, it's uninteresting, but there's nothing wrong in building such a thing. Well, you can resolve the case by this by then the sufficient conditions of proximity and continuity. Most fundamentally involved in learning and learning theory. Another cougar who will also come to Louisiana now?