[0.0s - 29.0s]
Looking at this coming from getting gun punch translator for computational neuroscience is been working with Georgia Steven Lauer over there for quite a few years, so we have a common EU project that he's been visiting us on this order for the last few days and then this few days we already got some nice results, which is very nice. And so today he's going to talk about his work on your remote controller. The Walking through walking questions and maybe if he's going to try to expand on this and the second part of the talk, so spending. Yeah, thanks a lot for inviting me. It's very nice to be here because it's my first time in Slovenia and I've already a chance to look at the Castle and here in Ljubljana and do a few other things, but I'm afraid really most of the time we spend in the lab and working with the robots and I should also introduce me a time machine tonight. Colleague of mine sitting in the back row. She's really doing most of the work together with Allison, Andre and the people like Boy and in the lab. I would like to talk about neurocontrol of machines. All of you who are engineers know that normally control you would use PID controllers or methods along these lines. As I am a neuro scientist, my background is experimental neuroscience. At some point we decided we should use neural methods to control robots. So what are we talking about? We're talking about motor control motor control.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Is really influenced or dominated by several aspects, which would be for example, the biomechanics. So. It's an absolute prerequisite, for example, for walking that the Biome except mechanics are correct. Elephants on horses can walk on two legs, but only a few steps bears dogs. It is birds and humans that can walk on two legs with great efficiency because of our bio mechanics. However, then on the second level we have neural control and I will take you through the neural control step by step. Known to you maybe is that animals sometimes have so-called central pattern generators. Which are small oscillators, many times located in the spinal cord that produce oscillations, and those oscillations would then re trigger a walking process. Clearly there's also things like reflexes existing in our nervous system. You all know the knee tendon reflex, which is ammonia synaptic reflex. So you stretch your leg when you get hit on the knee. They are very important for calibrating your walking and of course you have higher control, which is particularly important when you change the wrong when you have to climb up the stairs or something like this. So let's see what we up. Sorry, I was one too fast. I wanted to get you this movie here. This stick insect here is reflex driven, which is when you touch it. It will continue walking right very short movie. So that is 1 aspect of where a reflex will retrigger a walking process. And the little movie down below, where is my mouse? And the little movie down below you see that higher levels are important for control of walking. This cockroach has brain damage. It's lesioned Electro byways of some electrical currents, and it cannot balance anymore. So it tries to climb up this ramp. This is a slow motion movie, of course, and you'll see that it will eventually. Not be able to reach the top, but fall over backwards. So this is 2 examples of reflex based control and higher centers in animals that show the influence of these things which however are.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
To you too from your own everyday experiences. So this is a bit. How the system really would look like? So we have a biomechanical level muscle skeleton. Then we have a reflex level or layer. If you wish modern neurons sensors that generate these reflexes. They are in the spinal cord, so really the two. Components here spinal cord oscillations as well as reflexes down below. They are at the same location there in the spinal cord. The oscillations that central pattern generators and then we have a brain. As a consequence, we can exert central control. Influence our walking. All these. Centers or elements if you wish. Or in tight contact with the world through The Walking process itself. As soon as you walk, you feel your own walking. You feel the ground and so you close the loop. Your sensors will sense your ego motion and as a consequence you can control and change your own walking pattern.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
No. We can take a look at our robots called run boards and the network that it uses. Well, this network is entirely based on reflexes. It does not have a CPG. There's no central pattern generator. And it has however some higher level, some higher center that allows the machine to compensate for different terrain.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So this would be a network of altogether. I think. How many is it for eight 1620 neurons which controls the complete robot which is 4 degrees of freedom to hip Motors and two new Motors. So we have ground contact sensors G, the ground contact sensors exert influence onto all components, which is effectively as soon as the machine touches the ground. The leg is being withdrawn, so it's a reflex. Then we have stretch. Sensors in the hip. A. This sense is. When the hip is fully extended, what happens then? This neuron then sends a signal to the knee to make it bent. Then we have local sensors S which are in every single joint. They measure the angle of every individual joint and react accordingly so. If you wish, you have three loops, local loop at every joint then and enter. No, an intra leg loop, which it goes from hip to knee and into leg loop which goes between the two legs, all of which are in tight contact with the world through The Walking process. So whenever your leg touches the ground one of these G ground contact sensors is being triggered, elicits a reflex as a consequence of walking pattern continues right? It's a re triggering it.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Now we also have some sort of a. If you wish higher level control. While there's certainly no such thing as a brain in this little machine, but what we have built in IS. Two things we have a reflex again. Which, like in a human, tries to compensate for falling backwards when you fall backwards as seen by these two chaps. Here you lean forward even. You know, even after you've hit the ground, so even though even when it's too late, you still try to lean forward and compensate. Sometimes it helps, like with a friendly fellow down below. So that's a reflex. Now it would however, make a lot of sense to try to avoid the reflex and try to avoid falling right from the beginning. I'll show you how this works.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
By ways of an anticipatory signal. So we do have the reflex, which is by is triggered by an accelerometer. So the robot falls backwards and there is a body component and upper body component, and so the machine will then lean forwards. But of course is already sitting on its butt, so everything is too late, right? Doesn't help much. So the reflex will not ask the question, is it useful or not? I mean when you get hit on your knee you will stretch your leg whatsoever. You know, being of no use, many times the same thing happens here, so the machine falls backward and Riddle lean forward, however.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
There's also. Uh, that's just a leaning reaction, just shown here. So you see that there is an upper body component, which is basically a little weight, not more than that. And that can be leaning forward when the reflex is being triggered.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
This is this. Now there is this accelerometer sensor. AS there is however also an infrared sensor IR the infrared sensor has a certain look ahead clearly so it can see things obstacles at a distance. Right, the accelerometer sensor will only react when the machine finally falls over. Now what one can try to do? One can try to use the infrared signal. To learn. To produce a reflex which is earlier as compared to the reflex when.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Machine falls. So that is an adaptive process which is very easy with neurons, which is a bit more difficult with conventional controllers for example. Where we use and I'll show you how this is done in a minute where we use synaptic plasticity mechanisms like in our brain to learn the correlation between the early infrared signal and the lead accelerometer signal, because as soon as you walk up the stair and you know like a little baby, you're still inexperienced. You might fall backwards, but clearly your eyes. Would have seen the stairs before you fall backwards so there is a temporal correlation between those two signals. First you see something and then you experience. You know whatever you experience in this day. In this case a fall. This situation is very genuine for animals because we have near sensors and we have four sensors. Near sensors are touched. For example, right far sensors our eyes and ears, which means whenever there is a situation or many times there is a situation that you far sensors will see or would experience something before your. NIR sensors for example, when you touch a hot surface. You will normally first experience a heat radiation signal. Temperature at a distance. Before you experience the pain on touching, so these temporal correlations, they exist all the time. And also in our machine we have an infrared sensor that would see a slope. And we have an accelerometer that would realize a fall. And seeing the slope comes before the fall, which means even if we have not programmed our infrared sensor at all, we can use this correlation to learn. A reaction in response to the infrared signal avoiding the response to the accelerometer. Because the machine doesn't fall anymore.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
That's the idea. So to do this.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
What we do is we target a few neurons summer Mark, T Reyes and M.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
By learning and we have a little network. Where the infrared sensor and the accelerometer sensor signals are being measured and the correlation is being used to drive synapses. Synaptic weights upwards. He's a learning circuit. I don't even explain what it really does. There's a big big mathematical theories behind all this, so you can read all these papers or the other from us or from others on this temporal sequence learning, but effectively what this does is that the learning synapses, the ones in blue, that they will change their weight. They start with zero weight, which means 0 weight means that the infrared signal in the in the in the beginning goes unnoticed. There's and there's no cable between infrared signal and you know the stuff that follows because you know the cable is basically cut their zero weights. There's no magnification of signal. Now, during learning the sign up will grow. As a consequence, the signal would would evermore get through to what follows to its targets.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So this is what you see what the machine does. It walks up the slope and falls backwards and leans the body right, which is useless reaction. It's just like the sports man who fell on his back. But you see that the upper body component will lean forward. This is the upper body component. No leans right. But in doing this, the correlation between infrared signal and accelerometer signal is being recorded all the time and I'll show you soon also a slide. How this looks like. And during and due to this correlation. The machine will learn to walk up the slope and lean the body early enough, which has happened now. After 4, three or four falls. So now the machine has learned Runbot is a dynamic Walker. It works like a human, which is, you know, inverted pendulum principle. It used to be for quite some time. The fastest walking machine in the world. This is where we get some press coverage. I don't know. It's probably not the case anymore, but dynamic walking is a terrific problem because I mean, many of you will know that because you have to compensate it basically against chaos. An inverted pendulum with some degrees of freedom is essentially a chaotic system in itself, so you have to make sure that you get a walking pattern which is stable. To my knowledge, there is no dynamic walking machine existing still which is freely walking. So also run but has a little support. Things can only fall forwards, and backwards cannot fall sideways, but that is state of the art with dynamic walking machines different from kinematic walking machines like Honda's Asimo, Asimo would walk like an old person. Keeping the central support plane is keeping the center of gravity above the central support plane. That's not how we do that. We swing back and forth, right? And that's what run. But also does. My. Personal belief is that as soon as we will be able to manage dynamic walking, the kinematic walkers like HRP 2 orazi mobile disappear. Because they look very funny when they walk, even though they cannot jog quickly, but they really run in a very strange way.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
No, some aspects are interesting of runbot. For example, like humans, one would also is a parts of passive Walker when we walk. We propel ourselves forward and in doing so at some point we just let ourselves fall forward. We don't control at that moment and so our muscles are basically relaxed. So there's no energy consumption, which is very important because this allows us to run the marathon if we were using energy all the time, we would not be able to do that. So we have a little push and then most of the working process is poppys passive with run. Would something similar happens these Gray areas on the slide show that during about 1/4 of The Walking cycle there is no voltage checker Motors. So it's just the passive properties of the Motors and the joints that dominate during this time. So also with this respect, run board is being built similar to a human.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Walker. Now something about the signals that happen that take place during walking. This looks a bit complicated, but it's not so difficult this slide. It really shows 6 trials of the machine trying to walk up the slope, and you see that there is color coded. The ramp. Which would be in yellow or red. The lower floor, which would be in Y in white and the upper floor, which would be in Gray. Now what you can also see immediately is that. You have two signals, which is the infrared signal that comes early. And the accelerometer signal that comes late. So I market in red and blue here. Which shows that during the first three trials, the machine has fallen because you can also see below on the bottom right that there is no accelerate meter signal after three trials, which means that the robot has successfully walked the slope, it hasn't been falling anymore, right? But during this time, when it falls, you see that there's a correlation. First you see the infrared signal and then you see the accelerometer signal. And clearly as soon as the machine is successful, you only see the infrared signal. That's the one thing to observe here. Now what you can see here is the leaning of the upper body component. Takes place in the first three trials, too late, indicated by the Orange or red parts in this diagram. That's the situation when the machine has fallen right, but it will still try to lean forward like our sportsmen on the picture. When the machine succeeds, you see that the leaning reaction comes earlier. It is now in the yellow domains at the start of the ramp ramp. So that is what you can observe on this slide. You can also observe that well as soon as the machine successfully walks up the ramp, there is no accelerated signal anymore because the machine doesn't fall anymore, right? And what is important, and that is particularly for people who are interested in the synaptic theorie of learning that this learning will stabilize the synaptic weights together with the behavior. Which means as soon as the machine does not fall anymore, there are no weight changes anymore. Quickly going back to that one.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Side here. This means that. The blue the learning synapses, which are if you wish, cables with a certain amplifying weights. Sorry. That they have a final magnification amplification if you wish. So it's really very much in electrical terms. It's an amplification which is larger than one at some point, and which is then stable. It will not do anything alone.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Anymore, because you see that these weights don't change. That's important because this gets you behavioral stability.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Now something about control thiery here. So this is a reflex loop, otherwise known as a controller feedback loop controller. It assures behavioral stability at least to some degree, but the problem is that reflexes are always too late because you have a sensor sensor gets triggered, then you have a loop delay. Until the signal comes back and hopefully it compensates against the sensor input. If you move away from your set point, you want to get back to your set point as quick as possible, and every engineer knows that this takes time and you can have over them system or under them systems and stuff like that, but. What you cannot have, you cannot have an anticipatory reaction. There's no chance. There's no way of looking into the future.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Or is there? Well there is as soon as you have far sensors and new sensors. When you near sensors trigger the feedback loop controller, you can use a far sensor that is correlated to the feedback loop controller. In order to be productive. And that's what happens here, which is effectively what you're in learning happens is that you are fantastically removing that in a loop. It's never being triggered again, this signal at the accelerometer is 0 or close to 0 becausw. The system has learned to react to the earlier signal. Now I will show you that this is interesting from a system theoretical viewpoint. In the next couple of slides becausw to give the bottom line first. This system has learned an inverse controller of the environment. Now what?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
This OK we're talking about predictive learning. I like that slide very much. Because this I've been showing the slides, I think now for about 10 years. That's the situation that I'm talking about all the time near sensors, anfar sensors here. In this case we have smell predicts tastes and poor mouse gets eaten by the snake. It's good for the snake is bad for the mouse, but what animals can do very successfully. We can very successfully learn these correlations. You have probably as a child, burnt yourself at a hot surface. Everyone is done that, but normally you learn in a single shot to interpret the heat radiation that comes off the hot surface and you never going to do this again. So we are very efficient in learning these.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Correlations and as I said, you know the infrared signal the Ram. Predicts the accelerometer signal to fall.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Now, what is what goes on here from the system theoretical viewpoint? This is again our reflex loop feedback loop controller, so we treat the signal that enters the loop as a disturbance as a unit pulse D right that enters the system at the summation node runs to the sensor, which would be accelerometer here and then. You know there's our neuron, or maybe sometimes are more than one year on. That produces a motor output which compensates. So the situation you fall and you lean forward useless, but you know at least it works.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
OK, now this is what people would call an open loop system. OK, that's boring input output, but there's no feedback loop, right? That's the thing that we just had. Feedback loop controller known to you all. This is the system during learning. We still have that feedback loop controller sensor one to motor, so there's no difference between the two, right? So there's a copy. But we have an outer loop. And. Mathematically, in a quite formal way, we can use the same disturbance D and run it into both loops, but just adding it deley T between the inner and the outer loop, which is just saying that our infrared signal comes earlier than the accelerometer signal. So as you can see, the outer loop doesn't carry the T, the temporal delay the inner loop carries the T, which means the signal arrives at sensor one later than its sensor 2.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And this is what happens after learning after learning. If learning was successful, the inner loop will never ever get triggered again. It's there. Anatomically speaking, it's existing. But for some reason. And I'll show you what happens. There is never again with any kind of luck and input to our accelerometer signal.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
No, what is what is what is happened here. You have now, effective efectively removed the inner loop, which means the pathway has become a pure feedforward pathway. So we have turned a feedback loop controller into a feedforward controller. As a bit of a Holy Grail for control engineers. Because this is model free feedforward compensation learning so we don't have a model of the system is learned, so that's why is model free. And it learns forward controller here.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
No, this is interesting from a formal point of view, because one can mathematically show I'm not going to go through all these equations that our learner HV. That this little learner learns the inverse transfer function of the environment. P -- 1. Together with the delay, this is a delay in Laplace domain. Then X is an exponential. That's a delay unit delay. In this term you will soon see.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
It's just a phase shift, so we can neglect that, right? You have to read the mathematical proof you really want to see the details, but essentially what this says is that our learner HV has learned the inverse controller of the environment. Now what happens? This is very nice to do this on this diagram, so here's our disturbance and we first treat the outer loop so the disturbance runs around in the outer loop, right? And as it's a unit pulse it will just get multiplied by the transfer function of the environment. So the unit Pauls turns into P1 basically. No, we know what HV is so we know what to do as soon as we reach that point because at that point we have to multiply P1. With this term here. As a consequence, P 1 * P -- 1. Compensates and now you just have a negative deley. Formally speaking, that runs around to that summation nodes where we have to look how signals will meet because Meanwhile. Our signal D has also traveled across here and has encountered a delay. It dilay is encoded as E to the each of the minus St and at that node both signals meet just in time. As a consequence, they compensate to 0. And that is with mathematically happening here. So the system learns an inverse controller of the environment as a consequence of doing so, it will compensate the inner loop. The inner loops going away. So this may be just.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Some interest in the context of this kind of. Learning. I would like to shift gears now and talk about something. Yeah, I don't know. Not not exactly related. I mean the relation is through treating systems as interacting with their environment. So we have an agent and we have an environment. And they interact with each other right? So we have a situation where there is feedback from the agent to the environment and back. I mean trivially, when I move an object and I look at it. I get feedback. You know from doing this, my sensor input at the retina will change and that is always the case for any kind of robot. For any kind of animal that we are operating in these closed loops. Now we can express this as transfer functions, and now we pretend that agents are linear systems. Well, that's not exactly true, but. At least in doing so, we can make some nice suggestions about agents and their world, so we have an H transfer function of the agent and the P transfer function over the world. Now. There's one interesting thing. It's known from systems theorie that as soon as your transfer function P is fully predictable. Then you can integrate it. Into the transfer function of the agent. This is strange because in doing so we have eliminated the world. Now we have a transfer function H / P. A new one and the world turns into transfer function one. This however, only works if your world is fully predictable. Well, you know for us humans this sounds strange. I mean OK. What is the? What is the use of this? But if you think of a very simple robot you can encounter such situations. And what is the difference? I mean where did the world go right? Well, here's the world. Unpredictable disturbances. Can never be integrated into the transfer function of the agent. End of story. Now a simple example from the robotics world. I mean, if you have a robot and you take the hand of the robot off right so you still have a robot right? You put the hand back on. If anything is good, this hand of the robot is then for the machine 100% predictable, right? So it is integratable into the machine if the hand we're doing something funny now. Then you have more of a problem because then this is not really belonging to the machine. If you know if it produces randomness, it's unpredictable, then you have a problem with its transfer function. Integrating it into the robot. So while this all sounds a bit strange, it is very conceptually clear from a robotics perspective. Things that are disturbing cannot be integrated into a machine, but.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Is it on me? Well. It is. Talking about embodiment. The embodiment of a machine where where does does the body of a machine end? Where does the world begin? And he is a necessary condition. It's a necessary condition, which means every entities, every entity whose effects are fully predictable could be part of your body. Right, that's a necessary condition, and here's some examples. It's known that predictable pain can be, to some degree, ignored. Unpredictable pain cannot, which is, you know, humans and animals have developed mechanisms to actively integrate. Predictable aspects into their own transfer functions. Same thing with prestigious artificial legs when they fit very well they will be integrated into your body image. Right, or notions like a racecar pilot becomes one with this machine, right? It's a bit weird, but you know everyone has or has had this feeling. You know when, when, when, when when this happens that you become one with the other entity. Now.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
What are sufficient conditions? Well, sufficient conditions are that to be part of your body, the entity from which a predictable event arises should be proxamol and causally linked to your currently existing body. Now we really have to think of robots here, right? If that robot hands? Predictably lies a metre away from the robot. It is very predictable, right? So never moves right. It's highly predictable, but still it cannot be integrated in your body. It's there so it has to be in some sense proxamol. It has to be movable, right and clearly. He's in front is a funny one. The Sun's motion is fully predictable, right? But you cannot integrate the sun into your body image. Hello. Where is a robot hand is linked to robots arm or two computers are linked by connection wireless connection, so they form in some sense of strange body. I come up with some examples from the from the realm of animals which make this a bit more clear so.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Because this is all bit strange, isn't it? And there's a second sufficient condition which is to be really integrating an entity into your body image. It should be there for a longer time. And I will also show you an example from monkey experiments where this has been shown that Monkey Act monkeys actively do such process is they change their body image, they change how they feel about their own body. Also young humans influence. They have no idea about their arms and legs, so these entities are strange things that move. However, in a predictable way. So after awhile they realize that this funny thing belongs to their own body. Right, so embodiment that has been talked about a lot in robotics is a fleeting and floating concept. There's no such thing as a constant body. Also not for us.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Now, OK, well there's some stuff an interesting hypothesis arises that you could temporally integrate things into your body image among key experiment will show this. And to make a Long story short, if I use something. Like you know, he isn't very nice snicker bar in case I should get hungry during my own lecture. In case I can take this and move it in a highly predictable way, there's nothing and really nothing that prevents me from integrating this into my body image. And here's again the example on robots. If you take a robot and the robot grasps a hammer, right and really holds the hammer. Well, you know, take a few screws and screw the hammer onto the robot. Right now the robot has a new body because you know it ends with a hammer ends. We do this by grasping and releasing. And we do this in a temporally, not constant way. It's you know, it's difficult to imagine that I could take off my hand, but it's not difficult to imagine this for a robot at all, right? So we did an experiment which is based on some computer vision where we try to make these ideas a bit more visible. Which is we used a very simple industrial robot and we were able no, but quicker really. Who's gonna come here to on a napako meeting we were able to encode the robot. Visually. Sorry by these little. Round shapes, which we call visual primitives. It does not matter at all. You can take any visual representation. But what is of interest is the following process. I can show you movie. So here's the camera. Set up the robots and. It views a scene. It will no extract. These visual primitives that look like this. From which a grasping hypothesis emerges. So it's a guess. Where could I go and grasp and that is 1 grasping hypothesis and the robot is actually able to do this then. Which is using geometrical constellation of these parameters. So the machine will now grasp. It's also a model free grasp, so there's no cat model, no nothing. It just grasps this at the point where it thinks it could grasp and now the machine can take the object. And move it predictively around. Very productively, it's industrial robot, right? In doing so. The machine can use the rigidbody motion principle. Which says that you know coherently moving things should belong together, right? It uses the rigid body motion principle to arrive at accumulated 3 dimensional representation of this object. Well, you see that in the middle where the most point is at the moment is the accumulation of the object and you also see the occlusions from the gripper, for example. So This is why this object has some holes. But it's getting Fuller and Fuller, so it starts with a few primitives and is getting more and more and more now. OK, I think I can shut this down. What happens in?

[957.0s - 986.0s]
This process is something interesting. As soon as the machine grasps an object in a reliable way, and here's a spoon. What we did. Depicts in a graphical way, but what is the conceptual idea behind it is that? In moving this predictably around, it can become part of the machine. It can become part of the body image of the machine. As I have said, nothing prevents you to take from taking a fruit, few screws, and infinitely long screwing this spoon onto the robot. Right? Then it's a robot with a new end effector and you'd prosper. Or other pusher in this case, and so. We have changed the embodiment and this is interesting from a cognitive perspective. Becausw agents who can do this and that is really only monkeys and humans only. These two can produce reliable grasps. All the others have a problem. These agents they can start using those things as tools and so they can enlarge their cause effect horizon. What used to be the end of my body? Is not anymore. I can use this and start doing whatever something. Which I couldn't do before. And there is a belief in the in the cognitive community or cognitive robotics community that this was the germination process of cognition. That we were able to reliably, if you wish extend our body well, the strange notion. But that in doing so we were able to enlarge our cause effect Horizon and that we could then arrive at conclusions about the world, which will not possible without that. A cat chasing a ball around will not be able to make predictions. Good predictions where this ball will go. Think about soccer players, right? I mean soccer is highly unpredictable game. If it were predictable, would probably be bored. Anyways. It's the predictions that allow us to draw conclusions about the world, and we took about good solids, million year evolution at that stage where we were just using rocks and smashing rocks onto something else and ever so slowly arriving at the concept that something predictable happens. Now, where support for this? This is really strange.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Notions, all of which, well here is a lot of support which I find very interesting. In this set of experiments. The people had trained a monkey. To use a tool to get food. Because the poor creature couldn't get the food in any other way which was the monkey was in a cage and that's not shown here, but you know, we had to use a Rick to get the food because the food was outside. There was a little gap on whether a kid could get the food and it's been doing this for weeks. In doing this, the nerve cells in some parts of the cortex have changed their representation. They had they have fully integrated this tool into the body image by changing the representation of the body by by firing. Now in response to, you know the experimental touching the tool and not touching the hand anymore. So you see that before to use. This red area shows that you had to touch the hand of the monkey to elicit a response in these nerve cells. After training and to use, you could touch at a distance this object where there is no sensor. Of course. I mean there's no sensor built into the break that leads directly to the monkey, so it goes via vision. Of course, right? But the neuron would then fire in response to touching that tool. When the monkey was just playing with this tool, so there was a monkey in a normal cage that could food get food. You know in any other way and he just had you know this tool around and could play with it, so there was no causal need for using it as a method for learning something that would be panel D. You see that the receptive field of this neuron was similar to panel B, the one without the training which shows that. The temporal extension of a body image has been taken place for this animal after training. It is integrating this rake into its body image. Same is true for shoulder receptive fields. That would be the thing on the bottom.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
We can again come back to our systems theoretical approach because all this sounds so strange to some degree and then again, maybe not. But we were talking about predictable and unpredictable entities. So if we have several unpredictable entities, and if for some reason. One of them may turn into something predictable, right? Because we experience it again and again and again. What we can do is we can integrate it by ways of this process into a body image, and now we have a transfer transfer function which is H / P two as opposed to the original age. Well, we have integrated the one predictable entity. The other one, which was finally unpredictable, still remains out.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
No there is. I talked a lot about embodiment Now which is the problem where robot body ends and how it might change. And you know what kind of influence this could have on cognition? Um? I would like to set this apart. From the. The other thing that people have talked a lot about, which is situatedness. And there was always a bit of a confusion. What is situatedness and what is embodiment and what does the one have to do with the other? And there were some statements in the literature that said you know cognitive agents have to be fully situated in their world. That would be one possible statement. The other conjecture was cognitive agents have to be embodied and. Just to make clear.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
What are you talking about? This situation here an open loop system that is lack of situatedness, which means there are inputs, their outputs but the agent. And that is a strange situation, but there are some systems that exist that look like that this agent will never experience the results of its output. So it is not situated. There is no situation to which it could react, right? So this is a lack of situate.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Goodness. This is situated in a switches for a control engineer a closed loop. Well, on the one hand there is the agent. On the other hand, there is a world and the agent does something the world may change a little bit, but in the process the agent will get sense of feedback about the changes that have been introduced. Now, why is this of interest?

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
This is of interest because there are systems existing in artificial intelligence and robotics or biology that have these different aspects. So systems that are not situated and not embodied, so there's nobody, right? There's no physical body in the sense that we've defined it. What is this? Well, this is pure simple manipulation systems. Good old-fashioned artificial intelligence, such systems. They would carry the Cartesian attitudes that minds can exist without bodies, right? The court had put this forward. Well, people have debated this, but such systems exist. Pure simple manipulation systems you have, you know. They may produce output, but they don't care about their output. Systems that are. Embodied and situated. What is this? Well, that's simple. That's you know animals and robots, basically us most common biological systems. Robots someday live creatures that interact with their world. As long as they obey the necessary and sufficient conditions described above within their own world, right? So they are embodied in their situated because whatever they do, well in the end influence themselves. Embedded systems which are not situated. So what is this? Well. That is open loop systems technical systems that do not feedback their output to themselves so you know it's just an open loop running process. You can build this mostly, it's uninteresting, but there's nothing wrong in building such a thing. The last case is a strange one. Systems which are situated so which produce feedback onto themselves, but we don't have a bunch but which don't have a body. This is hard to think of. This is a strange case. Well, you can resolve the case by this by then the sufficient conditions of proximity and continuity. Bodies have to be continuous in time. They shouldn't change all the time, right? And the entities of a body should be proximal to each other. Well, swarms do not obey this. These systems definitely feedback. With their own actions onto their themselves, which means you know if they make a good action, they may avoid a predator and not being eaten. Individuals right? So there is direct feedback from the environment or not being eaten is quite some feedback I would think, but there certainly there are certainly at best weakly embodied, because the members of the swarm they change location all the time with respect to each other. So the continuity condition is violated here. So you see that these concepts. Or exist I mean again, they sound very theoretical in the beginning. Then if you look a little bit deeper you find examples in the living world or in the in the technical world.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Where you have these different aspects represented. Now. I can come to the conclusion by summarizing what we've talked about using this little. Iconized slide here. So we started to talk about. Rather, the lecture was called layers, loops and learning, so we talked about different layers of control existing in a biped walking machine. And what we immediately emphasized is that. Particular, this biped Walker is in a very strong closed loop situation with its world due to its own sensors that retrigger The Walking as soon as you lift run bots. It will stop walking because there's no ground contact anymore. That's it right? So this is the 1st loop. We talked about in this lecture and we were able to arrive at some conclusions with respect to the systems theory about this loop and we could explain that during learning system was able to learn a forward model and inverse controller of its world. And then. We made a little jump and said, OK, we can use the same system theoretical methods. At least you know in the simplification of linear systems which we are not, but you know. Just to make the argument a little bit clearer, and the simplification of linear systems, we are able to arrive at conclusions with respect to cognitive development of agents, which are still heavily debated. But you know that's what we're doing particular also in the European Paco Project, perception, action, and cognition, we're trying to talk about such problems, and we're trying to implement this into machines were trying to implement process is by which machines can comprehend their world. They can get a semantic understanding of the meaning that arises from interacting with the world.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
It was the last thing we done and I can just show this last slide here, pointing out that neural control is really something very powerful, because this is a very little movie showing that we have used a network to control also other machines. This machine has 22 degrees of freedom and about 18 sensors, and it runs entirely under neural control. Walking through a difficult difficult terrain. Turning going upwards until repping Fromholz you'll see that and all this work has been done by several people. As it arises, Kaka was involved in controlling this heck support here. Tell Gang built the first versions of Runbot Kristoff Cola Jeske. Most fundamentally involved in learning and learning theory. Pyramid, Madam Peng has continued to develop run board and he is actually built the heck support all by himself. Then Paul, former PhD student of mine and a good friend by now is very nice theoretical physicist. Does a lot of learning theory Mark Timere is involved in case control? Another cougar who will also come to Louisiana now? I was already here, actually he's a computer vision expert. There was involved in showing these things. Thanks a lot. Questions. Question. Why does the little factory start leaving the upper part so so it was like in particular system that there's leaving the upper part production itself? The this is what is being pre wired in these systems, which is the reflex reaction. The reflex reaction like for us is a stereotyped reaction that is just there built in by evolution and it can also not be modified. What can be modified is avoiding the sensor input to the reflex. So what the learning really does is it takes the reflex reaction and if you wish it shifted forward in time. Well, the reaction is the same. It leans the body but not with respect to that reflex signal anymore, but rather with respect to the sensor input that comes from the infrared sensor. Regarding your network structure. So good connection, synaptic weights and for this was based on your understanding and knowledge about the problem and their dictation processes. Baby Justin Bieber release of this selection. Now the answer is yes or no. So we have used or other funk persimmons group years ago. Have used evolutionary methods evolutionary programming to develop these neural controllers. But you can go only so and so far with that beyond which you take the controllers which have a basic functionality, you build them into a machine and then it's really trial and error. So you have to get a feeling for what you're doing, but the controllers are fairly simple. For example the network, which you cannot really see on top here, contains one network, one subnetwork that does face shifting well. Why would you do that? OK, you have six legs in this case, and what you want to do is. If you want to turn, you don't want the same pattern, which would be something like this, but you want a change of phase shift and so from the understanding of the biological systems that have networks which are similar to those and from basic controllers that you can get with evolutionary programming, you can then combine this, But that's an experimental thing to do indeed. Yes. Why is this method any other user on the system to people in? Exactly. Hi. Find this week. We have let me phrase it this way. The background comes from physiological observations. The learning mechanism as such, we have employed this in a wide variety of systems, which are all essentially robots or controllers. So one of the strangest applications was really the control of thermostat. So you can control the heater against heat disturbances, heat pulses, which means as soon as you have two correlated signals. Regardless where they come from. And as soon as you can define a feedback loop controller to begin with, you can always employ that same learning method so we have used it on a robot arm. We have used it on a driving robot to learn following a line. We have used it on the driving robots to find food blobs, things like this and it's always the same mechanism we are looking together with Angela UNSCR Buscas now in the network of insects. Whether one would find these mechanisms? In a clear away, there are indications that they exist in our brain, but in a more diffuse and more distributed way. So what kind of manuals are you applying for this paper? It is it's rate coded neuron sigmoidal neurons, so as simple as it can get because you don't want to use spiking neurons here, there's just some overhead you can do all these things on rate coded signal neurons and that's it. So the temporal processing is not within the neuron, but within this circuit's friendship, and so on. Yes, essentially so you do have activations that go up and down, up and down, but you don't have, you know spiking activations, so the activation patterns relative to each other that will produce them the desired responses. No, thanks a lot.
