And what I'm kind of talking about today's flexibility robustness, the cloud standards, web services and the hybrid future of translation technology. The solution is described simply. The solution is there, but it's diffuse and requires deep technical knowledge to implement. Like the axle and these include is free for use apart from the human capital costs is totally web based or can be users. Industry standards allow us to really research showing of translation memory in terminology allows the collaborative translation, can integrate with any type of empty, and has web services and open APIs. So in the future, we think all translation tools will be totally intuitive. Hybrid systems actually use standard integrate social media type tools for communication, use, advanced translation, memory architectures for total control of linguistic assets, have powerful quality controls, including automated and human review features, enable real time previews of all content types, have advanced machine translation of all types, have very easy user, configurable automation, allow for easy integration with content. But the really the winners will be forward thinking groups that get the message across to the key stakeholders I think spends. And the users how to spread the message. They were just by de facto do that. The actual code is to implement accurate renditions of the standards and testing images. Because it needs to improve the internal and external lines of communication. But what this meant it was indicative of the dated model used for standard development in the localization industry. Around this OK, so who's the new kids on the block house? They're leading with example and gave you with new stakeholders and making standards. They basically carry the torch from Lisa. OK, So what is missing from standards? There are many standards, TMX X Live and these are standards. And clay tablet is not a standard, but it does provide the solution which standardizes into. Systems communication now here is a standards based solution, something called oh axle.