[0.0s - 29.0s]
Well, I mean, I've already forgotten everything I wanted to say because there's been so much information placed into our brains this afternoon. I think that everyone has a lot to say and everyones presentations were quite thorough and dense and well, what I want to 1st do is really say thank you to the sponsors and everyone who put on the event. And I'm really glad that I was asked to speak here. This first time I've got to speak at the multilingual web and I hope you enjoy the presentation. OK, so my name is Elliot needs by the way. And I work for a company called XTM. And what I'm kind of talking about today's flexibility robustness, the cloud standards, web services and the hybrid future of translation technology. But as I've been fiddling with my presentation today, I found that in fact my presentation is something a little bit different. So I want to begin with something just to kind of a metaphor and action. This is about localization standards, so I'm talking bout localization standards. I want to begin with a metaphor in action. If I was to ask everyone here to stand up. How many of you would instantly stand up? How many who OK? So some of you might have stood at 5:00 if I'd said stand up now, some of you might have stood up. Some of you would sit down and go. I don't want to get involved and some of you might be asleep. And that's OK, that's fine, but this is what dissemination of standards is like. I can be shouting out. This is how we should do it. This is how standard should be implemented. Some people will jump immediately and be ready to go for it. Some people will be sitting back going. I don't know and the rest of the people just won't pay attention, so that's how. That is the situation we face in standards and sharing information about standards to people.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
OK, with that in mind. The content cycle. I want us to visualize this picture here. This picture. Here is a Lake and mountains, but how has this picture here been developed? Everything looks so peaceful, so elegant. So calm. How did it happen? A long time and a lot of process is so it looks plastic, but there's a lot going on in the background. There is a standard. What standards are in place here. While you've got gravity, you've got the water cycle. You've got tectonic plate interactions, either standards that are driving this image here. So what we want to aim for with standards is this. It looks as it should and it works as it should and this is already with standardization. And really I have to thank Christian and David for and spend for presenting things in a way that I couldn't. In a very good way, so everything they were saying is true about how you need to engage or developers need to engage the right people. And given the rights of information for their tasks. So for people in finance, people who make purchasing decisions, you need to show them a one page PowerPoint graph. OK, which says this is how much you are losing because you don't use standards. This is how much you could save if you do use standards, but this is how much money you could make and if you show the person there who's holding the purse strings that growth. Just one PowerPoint slide that might have some impact. Don't go into the technical side with the public, have money for the tools developers speak to the people who actually code the application, so speak to the people who are there writing. The output files, so as an example, I don't know whether one is anyone here use Adobe products? Adobe yeah, use Adobe OK, do whatever you have to translate Adobe products. You have to translate your Adobe Adobe output files. Anyone yeah OK? Have you tried the Adobe Captivate format? They produce an XML format and output well as one example. They claim to produce an excellent on output, when in fact it's not. It's not an extra file, it's a dot XML file with excellent in the in the beginning of the file, so it's not. In fact, it's all about excellent, but they proclaim it is. So what we need to do is go to the person who wrote that parcel or who wrote that output file and say, actually, that's not right. So part of the process is doing that, and I think what people do with Inter operating interoperability now Taos and bodies like that they are providing tools to these developers that will allow them. To write the correct format, that's what we need to do, and then once they work the write the correct format that will then feed down throughout the entire toolchain and allow them to get on much much.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, So what is it? What does it stand is? Why do we need them? And why are they going to be more important and more people need to use them? Because of interdependence we are all dependent on each other. The industry is dependent, well, everyone. Everyone here if you work in language services. If you work in tools development, if you work in authoring. We all have to deliver and work together, so it's this interdependence that is driving standardization and it drives me for standardization to make information sharing less problematic. Because it needs to improve the internal and external lines of communication. So by using. Standards.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Do that. OK, so I want to touch upon here the demise of Lisa, so as everyone knows this is going to be how many people here knew about Lisa? Yeah, OK, so if you how many of you cared about Lisa? OK, we had a few people now this Lisa is is gone but it's very sad that they are gone. But it means that there's opportunity now for people to look at it in a new way. The standards that were developed by Lisa or substantial. They are very good standards. They're being used by tool developers in the right way, so that is a very very good stop. But what this meant it was indicative of the dated model used for standard development in the localization industry. And modern markets demand new ideas, so this is an opportunity for new models of standard dissemination and what spend was talking about what David was talking about is that new model. It's a new way of interacting with people who are making decisions.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Around this OK, so who's the new kids on the block house? They're leading with example and gave you with new stakeholders and making standards. Fashionable towns are very fashionable brand in the localization industry Gollop. They basically carry the torch from Lisa. They just started, so we'll see how they approach the dissemination of standard solutions. And of course interoperability now which I need to read up on, 'cause it seems like a very good idea.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, these are a few standards, some of them we would have heard of. Of course WTC ITSI Unicode. These will be discussed today and TMX, which is apparently dead and added that when David made his comment, I think that it's definitely on the way out because it's so used, it's going to take a long time for that to go away with you on that one. Yeah, it's only.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, so the current situation. There's lots and lots of different types of technology and this was the bomb meant to explode there. But this can cause overload, so it's about producing a unified platform for people where they don't even have to think about it so. What is? Being proposed by everyone here is essentially a system which makes it. We speak standards invisible where you have the people who are creating the content. You have people who are translating the content. That whole cycle is the whole technical background to it is invisible. So someone uploads a file with it from a content management system or from their website, then push it through and there's only one interface people don't have to use different tools. All the transformations on the background and the things can be driven directly back into the content Manager system at the end, so it makes it simpler.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
OK, So what is missing from standards? And I actually got the idea for this from a discussion that we had at the goal of conference a few days ago, and there were quite a few of us in the in the group and someone mentioned something that's quite interesting. There are many standards, TMX X Live and these are standards. But when you present them to stakeholders, they're not really a solution. An example.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The solution is something like clay tablet. Obviously Mr Dealer something like clay tablet. You can go to someone, say here is a product that is going to unify your translation problems. Play tablet is going to come in here and sort it out. And clay tablet is not a standard, but it does provide the solution which standardizes into.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Systems communication now here is a standards based solution, something called oh axle. Now if I'm going to present something to a customer and I go OK please tablet or axle which wanted things to be more appealing to the purchaser. Obviously this one contains really good technology because this is all available for free. No one has to buy this and it can all be used for free. So trying to sell this to the buyers in the business as the way forward requires you to commit them to the time of the human capital. Costs are related to it.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
OK, so a comparison play tablet equals simplification. The solution is described simply. A wax, a little complication. The solution is there, but it's diffuse and requires deep technical knowledge to implement. However, there are many benefits, benefits to a standard basis.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Like the axle and these include is free for use apart from the human capital costs is totally web based or can be users. Industry standards allow us to really research showing of translation memory in terminology allows the collaborative translation, can integrate with any type of empty, and has web services and open APIs. We just need to get a sip of water. Wow, thank you. OK, OK.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So it could axle as a product of modern standards based approach to translation technology, something that the company I work for was built XTM cloud. I'm not going to go into anymore detail.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
About it in this.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So in the future, we think all translation tools will be totally intuitive. Hybrid systems actually use standard integrate social media type tools for communication, use, advanced translation, memory architectures for total control of linguistic assets, have powerful quality controls, including automated and human review features, enable real time previews of all content types, have advanced machine translation of all types, have very easy user, configurable automation, allow for easy integration with content. Cycles and work.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
On any platform and who will be the winners and losers of the future of this type of technology? Well, every person involved in translation kind of benefit from these standards and I think that everyone should be aware of that or is aware of that. But the really the winners will be forward thinking groups that get the message across to the key stakeholders I think spends. The ways them was describing it is exactly how it needs to be described in the people you've got involved in your group are good people, and that's the way things should be driven. You're getting the right people involved, and even though you will work for for profit companies, you have your own vested interests. You have come out and you said we're going to do it this way, and I think that's very commendable. So thank you for that. And he didn't get both senior managers developers.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And the users how to spread the message. I would say maybe nonstandard, unattractive. And this is actually mentioned earlier on or yes earlier on by someone. You've got the people. If there's no education in the University Department's people who are learning how to code, there isn't a module on localization, and I think that could be very beneficial if you can provide that, and I know that a lot of coders take pride in how they write their code. They take pride in doing that. So if you can make it so that writing non standard codes for localization and allowing them to do that, it would make make it easier and it wouldn't even think about it. They were just by de facto do that. So you need to approach the tool developers. The actual code is to implement accurate renditions of the standards and testing images. They will save money and time, wants to implement standards. So once again, please engage.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Tools elfers

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Keep at it and present solutions, not further problems. Thank you for your time.
