Let's consider a panel of judges, each one generating a preference of a given set of objects. Another note is that it's straightforward to generalize both this extension and the original models Model 2 to partial orders. So so our approach again a little bit more. Clearly is that we propose a framework to for unsupervised regulation based on the extent of mouse model, mouse formalism and will derive the EM algorithm to actually learn the parameters data. And then we're going to solve the left hand side for Theta I. I quickly for particular types of distance functions which will again touch on it in a few slides. So in order to instantiate that framework to a particular type of ranking, we need to do two things. We need to design an appropriate distance function for the for the setting, and again if it has certain properties that the left hand side estimation is going to be easy. So it was shown in literature that it could be decomposed as a sum of independent random variables. And. If you remember we need to do the that we need to design A sampling procedure. We'll start with a random permutation would take two arbitrary items in the permutation, we switch them places, and then we'll do the standard Metropolis Hastings kind of dance. So the one thing to note here is that. So if the chain steps are actually very quick and very, very efficient. Then you want to switch them with the elements in the K plus first position, and then you just want to do the regular Kendall on the on the white boxes. One well known example is meta search is where results of queries from multiple search engines are aggregated and so single ranking which hopefully is better than the individual ones. If you want to use machine learning techniques, supervision is difficult to get for ranking problems in general. So again, it's a monotonically decreasing function. Linesearch is really easy. And kind of a small note is that both the expected value, the distance and the distance reduced to the Kendall style one. So, so we've I've introduced to the kind of the model and the learning procedure and inference procedure. We wanted to look at what these dispersion parameters that we estimating actually mean. So we have four search engines. We chose queries such that there is kind of an unambiguous right answer to the query that is right page so that we can kind of estimate the results. Essentially, it's one over the page which contain the correct result and in the output. So it turns out that the as you can see, the Theta does kind of, so the more negative Theta, the more Peaky the Theta the the higher the value of the mineral page rank is an, by the way, are we got zero point 92, which is better out of the best. So let's experiment is is the top key situation which took 38 Trek three ad hoc retrieval shark test participants. There were 50 queries and each one produced 100 documents for each query. It's essentially board account weighted by the number of. To discard the bed rinkers without supervision. And we instantiate the framework for both permutations and top K lists and derive the novel distance function for the top case. Another lesser known example kind of motivating example is cold multilingual named entity discovery and the task there is if you have a bilingual corpus and one side was tagged for named entities, namely locations, organizations, people, etc. One example might be since you know that named named entities tend to be transliterated, you can have some translation model that gives you a score for the candidates. Another way might be if these named entities tend to be temporally aligned across corpora, so you can have some sort of temporary temporal alignment score again to record these candidates. So for the rest of the talk, I'm going to start with the kind of giving some stating the problem. Given a brief overview of what we did and I'm going to come back to their approach later in more detail, and I'm going to give some background about some tools that we use, and then I'll talk about our contribution. Namely, the framework that we introduce for unsupervised learning, and I'm going to take the framework and instantiate if two different cases of of preferences, the complete permutation and top K lists, and then I'll get to experiment. Conclude so a little bit more simply, the problem that we're trying to address is that how can we combine partial object preferences from multiple judges into a single joint ranking? It's called data Fusion, and many approaches use heuristics to aggregate these rankings, and that generally tends to assume some domain knowledge that's available. And what we'll do is we'll come up with a name based algorithm which will treat the the votes of individual rancors as the observed data and the true ranking as the as the unobserved data. For example, in this case, so Pi would refer to the rank of the object exhibi an π to the minus one of Jay will be the index of the object assigned to rank J, so also E will refer to the identity permutation, which is just a natural order X one through XN. And another property is that if D can be decomposed and as a sum of independent random variables, then the expected value of the we don't need to compute doing factorial computations. So let's consider generative story that we're going to.