[0.0s - 29.0s]
My name is Anna Faris parameters and I'm here to present you Milan, which is a Java library for perform.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Going to the blending I will start by defining what is multi label learning. Suppose we have a training set consisting of particles which belong to one or more semantical tankers. The goal of multi label learning is to induce a model that, given a test article, will produce a ranking of the categories according to their relevance to the given article about partition of the tables into. Relevant and irrelevant or both.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Then the nice thing about multiple learning is that his men and diversification applications such as semantic annotation of the Madison videos, what page categorization and direct market.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And many others. Mulan is a driver library, as I said, which is built on top of worker with his established user as established code and a large user base. Blank entry contest. Variety of State of the art algorithm for performing multi label learning and some basic dimensionality reduction methods. Format example data. We have an extensive evaluation framework with glasses that calculate the numbers. Play some measures and by by doing hold out valuation or consolidation. Lately we have created an experiment package which is a place to put code. That reproduces.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
From published papers. The input of Milan is 2 profiles and an IR file in the format of worker where the labels are represented as binary attributes and then XML file which is optional and where we defined the names of.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Labels. And the XML file is particular particularly useful when we have a label hierarchies. As in this example, and this is particularly useful.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Hierarchical media blenders, and now let's see some of the some of the letters that are contained in Milan and the transformation package contains an abstract class for methods that converter might label problem into one or more single label problems, and here are some of the implemented algorithms.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
We have another package with algorithm adoptation methods. The first is the lazy package which contains extensions of. Tenant based algorithms in order to have to handle multiple data and the other packages annual packets which contain 60.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Ocean of neural algorithm. Finally, the meta meta packet contains learners which use other than other methods able. Dennis as a para meter. Some of the implementation listed here.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
This is an example to show us how simple is to build a multi level and using Mulan and to evaluate its performance. In this example we build the binary relevance classifier using Decision tree implementation from Waka and the.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
48 and this is a sample of the output of the previous example that shows us that there are many violation message implemented in Woodland school ranking and we.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Station based. Thank you.
