We can use an error consumer method to recover those missing blocks, so the goal of error consuming is to cover to recover missing block B like the red block here so that some fitting error cost function is minimized and this fitting error cost function could be for example the difference between the missing block and its neighboring pixel as boundaries and in general error concealment is underdetermined problem because you can come up with lots of solutions. And then we use a projection to Tommy operator to just modify the low frequency content of the solution if it's not in good match with toilet block and how this projection to nocturnal prayer works. Enter was to these blue circles, so just imagine suppose that the quantization being of the ICC coefficient of the terminal block is. The first one is a simple deblocking filter which is used in as short as 6 four and it was proposing this paper. We found that the blocking general reduces saliency, for example, here. The same region is the face and half a point of blocking artifacts here. If we filter the specific range in the input block by a mile notch filter whose cover frequency is at the center of this range. Now these red circles here show the DC coefficients of the central block. Here, Alpha PQ is the RGB value of pixel at location P&Q and they update these RGB values by the great factor that controls how much a feature influences the Pixel at the saliency, an actually, for example, if you use this formula, we can increase the sentence example of this flower. Extensive subjective test to verify the performance of our method, we used 17 subjects and we show 2 videos side by side in a two AFC experiment or two alternative forced choice. Pearson argued that gains or to find the right counter replacement. Now we implement our idea within a region of interest based or oil based video streaming. Now if something goes wrong and packet gets lossed the affected region I decoder is very likely to be offloaded, resiliency. The loss rate is 10%. We actually we this is a low salience choir and we try to minimize this cost function and be sure that this low salience employer can increase the PSNR of the reconstructed regions an after consumers, those replacement blocks or consume blocks become less attention grabbing. Now we talked about our consumers in video streaming. Is is proposing this papers for recap or risk receiver error concealment using acknowledge preview in recap paradigm. Lower resolution of the video frame and we compress and transmit the Tom Nail video alongside the original high resolution videos. No, we commence our proposed method within our oil based view streaming framework and also we use recap as our error consumer networks. Then we call recap to find a replacement for this missing blog and recap suggest also bunch of candidates. Tom Neal Block is below a specific threshold, so there are in good mass spectrometer board, but this is an underdetermined problem because sometimes you can find 2 blocks that have the same embassy distortion and you don't know which one to pick. Now so we have a bunch of recap candy blocks. Now we propose to Father to pick the one that has a lower, has the lower costs, and the cost is defined as discussed the fitting error. But this saliency reduction prayers can change both high frequency and low frequency content of the solution, but we want to make sure that the low frequency content of the solution is always in good match with terminal Block, because Tom will work contains healthy low frequency content which so we should make sure that each time that we apply the same reduction prayer.