[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hyatt Annoying video streaming.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Need to lose some part of the frame. We can use an error consumer method to recover those missing blocks, so the goal of error consuming is to cover to recover missing block B like the red block here so that some fitting error cost function is minimized and this fitting error cost function could be for example the difference between the missing block and its neighboring pixel as boundaries and in general error concealment is underdetermined problem because you can come up with lots of solutions. Or lots of solutions for be here that minimize these objective function here. Now in our paper it proposed to add a saliency term to this objective function over here to get a new objective function like this, and we try to minimize. This will show that this paradigm allows us to find. Who actually replacement block for the supplies and also potential wrong replacement become less attention grabbing. They don't grab your attention after a constant.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Now we implement our idea within a region of interest based or oil based video streaming. So this slide describes the concept of borrowing base view streaming normally based video streaming encoder side. We first find original salience region of interest, for example by finding those regions that are of high salience and then we protect them more. For example by using more channel codes like FEC codes and then we transmit them to the decoder. Now if something goes wrong and packet gets lossed the affected region I decoder is very likely to be offloaded, resiliency. In other words, these missing blocks will be of low visual saliency. Now, after our consumer, these missing blocks should still remain of low salience. Otherwise, they become salient, and because they are erroneous people instead of looking these salient regions, they might look at these erroneous regions, and so the subjective quality of the video frame is. Reduced and you know paper did propose to offer an idea method to recover these missing blocks from low visual settings regions so that after error concealment they still remain low setting and this is our main idea.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Now we talked about our consumers in video streaming. One of the recent error consumer methods for local video streaming. Is is proposing this papers for recap or risk receiver error concealment using acknowledge preview in recap paradigm. At then Coder side have high resolution video frame the first don't downsample this high resolution video frame together. Tom Milton. Lower resolution of the video frame and we compress and transmit the Tom Nail video alongside the original high resolution videos. Now the decoder side you have received frame. You have correctly will seek reference frame, anatomical boy and if we have some missing blocks in receive frame you can use post thumbnail and reference frame to recover these recent blocks but how?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
We can talk more specifically here we have the cooler box you have correctly receive reference frame. We have a thumbnail as well. Suppose that we wanna color dismissing block over here. You first find the corresponding block in the terminal block. Then we downsample the reference frame to get a lower resolution of the reference frame, and then we do a block matching process in this reference frame. In this downsample reference frame and we get a bunch of candidates, let's call them recap candidates. These candidates, the MSE distortion of these candidates and the target log is blowing specific threshold that can be specified by user and then recap selects the one that has the lowest. MSE distortion and put it here and we do the same process for all missing blocks and this way we can recover recently.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Now for saliency competitions, we use development, ET cetera. Small. It's the bottom of our sales model, which was proposed by Laurent eating. This paper analyzes input image in different feature channels, like intensity, color, orientation, feature channels, and it gives a multiscale framework. It uses bunch of Gaussian pyramids, and it computes some contrast Maps in each feature channel. And to get some feature and it. Compute some feature Maps and then it combines all these feature Maps together to get as conspicuity map for each feature channel and finally all consecutive mass of combined together to get the savings model.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
In particular, the easy Settings model uses 8 levels in each Gaussian pyramid, and it combines the conspiracy Maps and Level 4. If you do some simple math, you will find that the effective frequency range that the 80 model uses for saliency computation is between π / 256, two π / 16, and then the details can be found in this paper, and will use this fact Now method.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
No, we commence our proposed method within our oil based view streaming framework and also we use recap as our error consumer networks. Again, we have our oil based view streaming. We protect salient reasons, more retransmitting encoded region to the decoder. And now if something goes wrong we get some missing blocks from low salient regions. Then we call recap to find a replacement for this missing blog and recap suggest also bunch of candidates. The MSE distortion between these candidate blocks. Tom Neal Block is below a specific threshold, so there are in good mass spectrometer board, but this is an underdetermined problem because sometimes you can find 2 blocks that have the same embassy distortion and you don't know which one to pick. Now in our proposed method, we propose to select the one that has lower salience.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Now so we have a bunch of recap candy blocks. Can you do any better? The answer is yes. Suppose that we have ascendancy reduction prayer, which if you apply the assailants reduction operator on every candidate block, you can reduce its salience. So we apply that serious reduction printer. We get a bunch of new state knew candidate blocks. Now we propose to Father to pick the one that has a lower, has the lower costs, and the cost is defined as discussed the fitting error. Is set to MSE between the solution and atomic and we have actually a low salience choir here and we try to minimize this.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Now how we can implement this in our proposal to the iteratively applied bunch of settings reduction of prayer? But this saliency reduction prayers can change both high frequency and low frequency content of the solution, but we want to make sure that the low frequency content of the solution is always in good match with terminal Block, because Tom will work contains healthy low frequency content which so we should make sure that each time that we apply the same reduction prayer. The low frequency content of the solution is a ceiling grid match with the tunnel, so we use this iterative model. We first find the best weekend it block that we can employees be good match with Tommy Boy, we apply saliency reduction operator. We get a new solution now. We project that solution to the thumbnail again using it projection, operator to get another solution and we do this several times until we get this.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Result here, now how matching tutorial works. So again the goal is this. We have a recap candy blog and we want to make sure that the low frequency content of disk is in good match with Tom will block to do so we use a filter available from bank to just, you know get the low frequency content at that low resolution because Tommy Plug is off low resolution. We get that low frequency bands over here and computes the city. And then we use a projection to Tommy operator to just modify the low frequency content of the solution if it's not in good match with toilet block and how this projection to nocturnal prayer works. Remember that we compress and transmit thumbnail video frames, so common video is already encoded with some quantization step size. All this in the coefficients of the atomic block are quantized to this quantization. Enter was to these blue circles, so just imagine suppose that the quantization being of the ICC coefficient of the terminal block is. There's an now because we have the decety decety transform of the tunnel block. The courses level of these filter bank. If the ICC coefficient of that candy blog is outside this conversation, then we can simply just shift it to the closest boundary of this quantization mean, and this way we can project the solution. And this is 1 simple step. One possible solution for project internal.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Now, regarding the savings reduction of prayers, we propose for sailings reduction operators. The first one is blocking for, the second one is an ocular and the second service frequency apply fever and the four points attention gardening method.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The first one is a simple deblocking filter which is used in as short as 6 four and it was proposing this paper. We found that the blocking general reduces saliency, for example, here. The same region is the face and half a point of blocking artifacts here. Yeah, appliance tailings deblocking filter and get her result like this, you see that these guys are not that efficient. Gravity compared to this point or less salient, so we use this as our first settings reduction.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Second one, the second sentence reduction prayer is called an ocular. Remember that we said the service model uses this. Frequency range for saliency computation power. 256, two power 16. Now what? If we filter the specific range in the input block by a mile notch filter whose cover frequency is at the center of this range. So we actually implemented that with bunch of with a simple Fr filter. And this is a very mild North Recien Attribution of 1.2 D and we do this several times until. Did you see anything?

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The server settings reduction operators called frequency outline Twitter. So suppose that we want to reduce the salience of this yellow block red block over here at the center. We first compute the Disney coefficients of the neighbors and we find the maximum and minimum of each discipline coefficient among all these forward neighbors, and we get an upper bound for the maximum of this efficiency of universe. And also we we compute at a lower bound. Now these red circles here show the DC coefficients of the central block. Now if one distant coefficient is also like this. Bound it stands out, so we simply shifted to the closest band. And this way we actually we can reduce agency.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And of course, since reduction previous call attention guided method which was proposing this paper, it's a pixel based method and it uses a simple formula like this. Here, Alpha PQ is the RGB value of pixel at location P&Q and they update these RGB values by the great factor that controls how much a feature influences the Pixel at the saliency, an actually, for example, if you use this formula, we can increase the sentence example of this flower. You see, if you use this formula, then we get a saturated flower here and the salience of that is is increasing respectless. But in our framework we want to reduce saliency, so we just simply replace this + by negative signs and we actually we can reduce variance using this approach. For example, this flower here is very salient, but if we use a negative sign here, we can reduce the saliency. Or here you see. The salience of this flower is high, but here you know, saliency is lower.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Now this is a block diagram of the proposal we have recapped, ended block it project terminal block and then we apply bunch of savings and reduction of prayers and we do this iteratively. Each time we check the saliency if the sentence is lower than the previous stage, we just, you know, proceed. Otherwise we just stop.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And the performance of. Extensive subjective test to verify the performance of our method, we used 17 subjects and we show 2 videos side by side in a two AFC experiment or two alternative forced choice. One video was our method and the other video was recapitalized and we showed each new twice randomly and we display each video pair for about 10 seconds and after that we gave the soft expires against the right number answer and we ask them which he looks better left or right. It is very simple. And so we actually. This way we can collect the number of books.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And also to check this for the statistical significance of our results, we perform the two sided quite square test with the null hypothesis that the two methods recap on our proposals are the same and we set the risk level to 5%. We examined for different loss rates from 2% to 30% and used for standard video sequences, Boss Crew Football and Steven. And these numbers are the number of votes for example 77 times people said recap is better. But 27 times people said our proposal is better and if we compute the P value of the Chi square test, if the P value is below 5%, it means that the result is statistically significant and we can trust on these results. But if the P value is above 5% means that the two methods are the same and you cannot say that the one that has higher voice is better. So you can see in all cases the P value is below 5%, which means that our result is statistically significant. And in most cases, the number of votes for our method is higher than recap, which means that metal indeed works better.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And we also did a objective test, computed the Pearson our gains on those four video sequences at two different representative. Preference, for instance, is remember that user recapping our message and recap uses that reference frame, which is different. D frames away. So these are two numbers equal to 10.2 representative numbers. And you see that our metal can. Give us a Pearson or improvement of up to 3.2 V, which is good 'cause we are dealing with an underdetermined problem and these are the saliency reduction, the average cities reduction amounts using our method, and the question is, where does this piece in our game come from? Remember that user ROI basically streaming, so we protect center, which is more now? We translate that if something goes wrong, we get the missing block, and we know that this missing block should be from low center regions because we have. So this gives us aside information as what to paste here. This is an extra side information product and that extra bit of information can help us to prove. Pearson argued that gains or to find the right counter replacement.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And this isn't a visual example of how little we have. The proposals on the left and the recap on the right. The loss rate is 10%. We randomly drop some logs and use our method and recap message. You can see that here we have a better quality. We have no less flickering effects or these artifacts here are not that attention grabbing. And hopefully you can see the differences because of that. Yeah, well I can see I think because 'cause of this project writing is not that visible.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So these are the conclusions for the first time we proposed the concept of low salience choir for air consumer. We actually we this is a low salience choir and we try to minimize this cost function and be sure that this low salience employer can increase the PSNR of the reconstructed regions an after consumers, those replacement blocks or consume blocks become less attention grabbing. People may not look at them for may not. Pay attention to that so this way you can increase or improve the subjective quality of reconstructing frames. Thank you.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Questions. That point. Oh yeah, that's a good question. We experimentally ramble 222 voice based on our experiments. Any other questions? Yes. Video sequence you said aware is the non scenario. You can point out to you today. Distortion on the box? Yeah exactly so.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Here before displaying skin you see here most so the same parties here actually using it more. It's not perfect, but we see some distortions in the background because these are not serious and in this case these blocks over here already attention grabbing. So people instead of looking at Salem Witch is here they might look at these guys and hear qualities lawyers with subjective quality is lower. But in this case you know you get fewer attention grabbing. Errors. Patrick so you mentioned that there is less attention grabbing. Intentional walk Pickering yeah. OK, that's that's a very good question. So actually we used ET model for saliency computation. ET originally Compute proposed a method.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Or send us a detection is static images while later on in this paper automatic foveation, forbidding compression. It extended the easy model to consider some temporal channels like Flickr Channel Emotion Channel and we use this knew saliency. Which considers. So I think we don't have to move on to the next next paper, so let's take the speaker.
