[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thanks very much for the introduction so.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Today I'm going to talk about facial symmetry and let me start by introducing the motivation from the application perspective. So our interest in asymmetry is in the context of this morphology, and more specifically in the relation or the link between craniofacial dysmorphology and neuropsychiatric disorders. The reason for this link is that during early stages of life, the face and the brain developing deep intimacy and therefore disruptions in brain development are expected to generate changes in facial geometry. The iconic example perhaps? Is Down syndrome where you can see clearly distinctive facial patterns in the patients affected, but specific changes in facial geometry have also been detected in another number of disorders from which I have listed a few here. And one characteristic of this geometric differences is that except for very few disorders, the patterns that we find are very subtle. To the extent that they are hardly visible by the human eye. So if we talk.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
About symmetry beyond the applications from computer vision, we find that there is a wide interest in symmetry from the point of view of development and the reason for this is that symmetry is a difficult thing to achieve and therefore. It is thought of as a measure of quality or of some measure of perfection of the development process. And of course, we're all a little bit asymmetric in normal context, but it is. It has been hypothesized that if you have disruptions in brain development during early stages of life that may lead to further symmetries that will fall outside of the normal range. This has been confirmed partially in disorders such as autism, schizophrenia or fetal alcohol syndrome, but again, we find that the differences in asymmetry are very subtle, similarly to his morphology in general. So the question we asked and what I'm going to be sent today is OK so.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
We want to measure very small AC methods. What is the accuracy that we can expect in our asymmetry estimations and for this I'm going to start by refreshing some basic concepts of asymmetry and how it is estimated, which in the face boils down to appropriate alignment after reflection. And then I will introduce a synthetic example, a very simple one in which we will be able to estimate the asymmetry to derive asymmetry analytically. And then we're going to compare that with the most widespread method to estimate the symmetry, namely alignment by list mean of squares which will fail and will fail by far. Then I will introduce a number of possible alternatives to improve these estimates of asymmetry, and I will compare them in terms of quantity valuation that we performed by taking a set of actual facial scans. They were first symmetrized and then modified by introducing synthetic asymmetry patterns that served us or ground truth.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So starting with the definitions, when we talk about facial symmetry, we talk about bilateral symmetry, namely.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
The difference between.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Left and right Game is free.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Of the face. So to compute without asymmetry, we start.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
From the original surface and we compare it with reflective version of itself that is obtained by reflection into either the symmetry plane, which will have them to be estimated, or by reflection into an arbitrary plane. In more general terms, followed by a rigid.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Information to bring back the surface. This new correspondence and then be able to estimate asymmetry as something that is proportional to the difference between left and right hemispheres. So sorry, we were here in the estimation of asymmetry. So now let's let us construct a synthetic example in which we are going to apply this bilateral symmetry.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So let's imagine that we have a perfectly symmetric surface about the plane passing at X = 0, and we're going to distort the tool face by introducing some expansion on one side of the face, and we're only going to affect the positive X coordinates becausw the axis of symmetry is at X = 0, so that means we're only going to modify the left side.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Other face, there is always going to get is this one OK? And here I have color coded the difference of the original surface fully symmetric with the distortion that we have introduced and the first thing that should become clear here is that this is not the asymmetry pattern of the surface, although it is the deviation of introduced and the reason for this is that. Asymmetry patterns must be symmetric themselves. This sounds like a contradiction, but it is very simple because by definition we are measuring bilaterally symmetry as a difference between left and right, so we cannot have a left eye that is asymmetric with right eye that is symmetric 'cause they were measuring that as the difference between the two. So basically both eyes must be asymmetric in this case with the same magnitude but different sign. So we can also understand this if we think of asymmetry as the deviation with respect to the closest possible surface that is fully symmetric.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And the closest possible surface that is fully symmetric is not the one from which we started. It is known that the closest possible symmetric surface is halfway between our original surface and the reflected mirror reflected surface. As long as this is performed on the actual symmetry plane, which in this case we know by construction because we generated this example synthetically. So we can verify that if we compute asymmetry in this way of the difference between the original surface and the symmetrization, we're going to get a formulation that is perfectly compatible with our definition, which is proportional to the difference between the original surface and the mirror reflective version. If we work the math in this very simple example, we will find out that in the end the asymmetry pattern of that synthetic example that we generated is of course an expansion of the left side, but by half the magnitude that we had introduced. Together with a contraction, so there is a minus there in everything is the same. A contraction of the right side of the face that has approached to the X axis. No, we were able to estimate this because we knew by construction the symmetry plane, but if we don't know it, we will have to go.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Reflection on any plane and then.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Try to estimate the transformation that would bring both surfaces into correspondence to measure asymmetry. Then why?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
We need to do is again to estimate the alignment. The transformation here, and this is typically done.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Does the least mean squares OK? This is a typical process alignment that we produce. A well known method widely spread, but if we apply that to this example, we find this asymmetry pattern that is totally.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And to the one that we will want to get, because this is the ground truth as we know. The reason is evident, the symmetry plane has shifted toward the positive direction in which we introduced the expansion. But the fact is that the correlation of these patterns, the correct one and the estimated one is even negative. So this very well resolved. Because we're not discovering that list. Mean of squares problems this.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Long known people have tried different methods to make this less sensitive, especially to outliers. We tried a method to make this. To improve this by identifying outliers and waiting them lower with respect to inliers, and then we also use the lesbian square root, which is inherently tolerant outliers. And when people use this to estimate symmetries, they found that it performs better, but it has a bad feature that it cannot one.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Maybe that is going to estimate the perfectly symmetric pattern because we need that we introduced also a modified version in which we added a term to enforce symmetry by penalizing deviations from the corresponding left and right points. And we also introduced some weights that decay proportionally to the distance with respect to the mainland middling. This with the rational that small perturbation is going to generate small deviations in the midline that are going to be amplified as we depart from it. So basically what we will want is weights that are proportional to the inverse of the distance to the midline. We model that with a negative exponential to have better numerical stability. So to compare all these methods, what we did was.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
To take a set of 100 facial scans, which of course have some unknown asymmetry pattern which we don't want because we need ground truth, so we symmetrize them with respect to an arbitrary plane, so this is not necessarily the symmetric surface that is closest to this one. So it has some relation to this geometry, but it's not necessarily the closest symmetric one, and that's because we didn't do the reflection necessary on the symmetry plane. That's the problem we want to solve. But still, this is perfectly symmetric, so once we know this, we can introduce asymmetric patterns, synthetic asymmetric patterns and the generated examples are going to have some asymmetry that we can use as well as ground truth.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
These are some examples of the symmetry patterns that we introduced here you can see. The formation with respect to a perfectly symmetric surface from which we started. The resulting asymmetry pattern and the same facial geometry without any color to get the flavor of the asymmetry look like it looks like. The full details are in supplementary materials of the papers in which you can see at 25 patterns that we applied to these sets of plans. And then to compare the performance of the different methods we.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
We measure the correlation coefficients. Actually, we averaged over all the geometry that we tested. For the different asymmetric patterns that we introduced and for the different methods which as you can see here, we have divided also by the type of input that was used.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So we tested methods based only on landmark coordinates of 26 anatomical landmarks, so very sparse representation of the face. We also tested using just the Midland, with the idea that OK fueling the midline, you have an estimation of the symmetry plane and therefore you should be able to recover asymmetry. And of course, we also used the whole surface. All the 16,000 points that we come in, our representation and a couple of hybrid methods that I'm going to explain in the end. So.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
If we zoom here, we still have a lot of numbers, but if we look at look at the colors you can see at all the negative correlations were marked in red, so we can get rid of.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
They are totally useless. They don't correlate at all with the original patterns. We also have very weak correlations between 0 and 0.5 which are of little use. And then we end.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
With a set of correlations that are within point 5.9, we arbitrary.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Reset the .9 threshold to say that they're OK, but still could be improved, and then a large set of nearly perfect correlations with a lot of ones. Which means actually perfect recovery of the symmetry patterns, and from this perhaps we can extract some conclusions. The first conclusion we can extract is that landmark based methods, contrary to what we would expect, perform generally better than surface based methods. But these especially surprising, because if you think of it. Landmarks are a subset of surface points, so when we investigated the reason for this. We concluded that it is related to points in the middle and. And there is a much higher imbalance in the number of points in the midline when you use surface representation. Then when you use landmarks, actually numbers are typically concentrated in the center of the face. To give you an idea of this imbalance, we have about 16,000 points in artificial surfaces and only 100 in the midline, so everything you are neglecting the impact of the Midland, and indeed if you see the performance of Midland methods with respect to surface methods, you see that there is a kind of complementarity. So what we did was to modify the weighting approach, so we will include an additional term.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
That relates to the asymmetry of the middle and then we have a term for the Miss fairs and we have of course the term for enforcing symmetry of the record pattern. You can also think of this as the Delta direct that would appear when you are trying to model the one over the distance waiting that we model just with this negative explanation, so again.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Performance of the hybrid approaches is the best as it combines these two and we are not restricted to a sparse sets of landmarks which can be very valuable. But there is also a.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Advantage in which because we're waiting the points. With the inverse of the distance with respect to the midline, that means that we don't care too much on where we set the facial boundaries, which is a big problem when we are trying to work with 3D surfaces. So it is going to be less sensitive to the extent of the phase that we're going to analyze, which of course is what we want. We don't want to be very sensitive to the exact representation that we are getting to estimate asymmetry.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
So this is a summary of our conclusions. A where this is just what I was explaining before, and if I still have a couple of minutes I wanted to show you a real example in which we tried to estimate the symmetry of a face. But without going through.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
This is actually these three are the same phase exactly the same facial geometry, and these are the asymmetry estimates of three different methods. OK, so you see the estimate of landmark based. This means of squares Midland based lease mean squares and our hybrid method OK. In and of course, which is the correct one? OK, so. We showed correlations based on synthetic patterns, but here you know the pattern that we have, so we cannot compare with ground truth. However, if we magnify this patterns so we have the asymmetry pattern will recover, so we're going to magnify it twice so that we get an exaggerated asymmetry pattern for each of the faces. With these were the same geometry, but now they are moving in different directions. You can see, for example that here what is happening is that we're getting some sort of rotation. OK, some sort of 3D rotation toward the right. Which means that the recovery transformation had some rotation bias, which is exactly what we were referring to before. We are trying to recover the alignment between the original and mirror rotated surface is that alignment is wrong. It may introduce bias in rotations in translations. OK, and this is exactly what is happening here, where is clearly visible that this pattern has been recovered is not good in line with our results, which showed that this was one of the worst performing methods. Of course, between this and this we can hardly decide. It is very difficult by then. We have to trust our results and say, well, OK. In general this method is going to produce more accurate estimates of asymmetry, although we cannot conclude anything about this particular case, OK? So that's it.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So thanks for your attention.
