By a PCA on the incidence mapping, so that also has a has a good reason. Then we just compute the linear mapping by minimizing the cost function so. They are actually in the paper, but if one goes into if 11 rewrites the Laplacian in terms of incidence mappings these eyes. We use the MPEG 7 C shape one database which is about which is 1400. So what we have is a connected graph pairwise distances determining the attributes. And the embedding space is 70 dimensional. So for shape categorisation we embedded the graphs and then. We computed codewords in a very similar way to what bag of features does which is used in this case we took the histogram of distances in the embedding space. The codebook was recovered using K means on the training data. Well, the the pairwise distances and embedding space for the training data, and then the testing was done using the code book and a linear SVM. We can propose on a better method which is based upon the graph attributes and at the same time is related to the graph topology. It's very simple conceptually, it's. The basis of the mapping is an optimal transformation of a linear map from the vertex to the space, and that's basically because here you don't have vectors. So that's just a technicality. In reality, what you want to do is to learn an operator which reflects this structure of the edge space of the graph. The motivation is that embedding methods can be used to transform relational matching problems into point pattern matching ones which which are much simpler to solve. The way we solved it from the theoretical point of view, it also provides a link between spectral graphs and linear operators, which is not really surprising if one thing. Actually what I I haven't considered here is that acting edge spaces from a set of graphs will reflect the common graph topology for the graphs under study. The X is are the hidden variables and that is the normalization factor or partition function. That's my hidden variable. Now the problem here is that this function is not convex and it's actually quite simple to show that it's not convex Hessian. And. Introduce a set of LaGrange multipliers. That's because we want the rows of the transformation matrix.