Information science and semantic knowledge. Then the author is connected to the other information through the intermediate entity called Production. Connect author with its his creation and also keep its provides with the dates 19 data creation of the artwork. So we just queried the Wikipedia search API and with personal names and our script asks user for just pick up accordingly related entity and then it creates the also miss link. So yeah, we use the class templates for visualized persons and artworks and also custom pages to provide the structure to our side. So let me start from brief outline of the presentation, so I'll start from this description of power goals and data providers currently then. Then I will tell you about high level overview of the system, including which software we use and which kind of data we have, import it and then I will go deeper into the data creation and publishing topics, including ontology, model, acquisition, transmission, etc. So the goal of evaluation was to understand how complete is our data, and we split our. There's a original data matrix you can see that. We successfully interlinked, but 85% of authors on the first page which was semi automatic about 40% and the other 60% worse. Interventions by on the on the second stage which was mentioned. How much additional information or give us? It's with some results I know, so we figure out the Seahawks are in provides a great ways to integrate data related to cultural heritage, so it's really easy to just get things together. Then in Lincoln is a really great way to enrich in each initially put dates. So the main objective of the Russian linked culture code is to create a knowledge graph which brings together the sources of knowledge on Russian cultural heritage. For example museums, libraries, archives algorithms, etc. OK, then let's say thank you say again, thank you. Once in the first one is the Russian Museum, which holds the largest collection collection of Russian art in the vault. In the end of 2014 we started pilot project with the Russian Museum. So we face changes of data representation, integration with external sources in our case is the DVD. But the way this data sources we have counted three data sources. It's Latin for visualizing. Configured templates and widgets for specific tasks. We also have a mobile app and we also have a possibility to extend our system with third party apps through this article endpoint. So the Russian museums data has a very simple structure. And so author has a type. Artwork has a type like drawing, painting, etc.