But we could have some local local structure. Would not behave under some global nice transformation, but locali things could behave. First, a simple definition of what is a Chronicle product between two matrices. Which is within here, but if X is doubly stochastic then the product is also doubly stochastic. For the distance function will take the relative entropy, the KL divergent. We defined by K. The number of matches. Now this problem is convex in K. And we can easily find the global optimizer using a break man Bregman projection. When the hyper graphs are of the same size and all the vertices has to be matched. The problem is going from S to YS as an end by D, by N by D matrix. So we sample some of the hyper edges for each vertex and we have a way to do it in kind of a clever way. This is the number of hyper edges per vertex that we have. Like a set of 25 points, we duplicated and we do a rigid transformation and then add noise to the rigid transformation. Compared to a spectral matching, again it's much much higher in terms of performance, and if we add random points to both graphs, not only to one of the one of the graphs, the more random points we add, the performance starts to drop, but still much, much higher than any spectral method. If we use this algorithm that I described, you have no mismatches, so. OK, so the structure translates to hypergraphs. The only point is how to then find the matching because it's an NP hard problem. The way we're approaching it is we're looking at at the probabilistic way of defining the matching, so it's an inexact graph matching. We're going to find the global optimum of the soft matching criteria. If we have a software solution, which is a probabilistic assignment between vertices between the two between the two sets, one can then go to a hard matching using a linear assignment problem. OK, so the hypergraph matching problem, the way we describe it, so we have two hyper graphs of degree D. That means each hyperedge is defined on D points. The inputs are weights on the hyper edges, so the way we define it is that the probability that an edge. But will show will define a simple algebraic connection between S and and X.