So the topic of the talk is beyond relevance and. How can we find closely connected and appropriate information items which are at the matter at hand which will solve the information need of a user? So in the case of image search. People typically tend to enter around 4.5 queries per session, whereas this is much smaller in web search and I think this is an important point. So what you see here is a classification of the user actions. Consecutively after the initial query, which are either to go to the next page. To make your query more specific, which basically means given the existing query that you have at an additional search term to your query. To make the search query more generic given your query, you're going to remove one or more terms from the query. Will be when the user stops. Yeah, I haven't. I haven't taken that into account in this now, so it's it's more like the query session in less what? What is the query interaction? Tattoo fonts are cursive letters is actually quite different and I think the tattoo fonts might be more specific, but it is a full rewrite because nothing of the original query is there again started searching and move on to the next page in the next page and expect. OK, I want to see the Nokia N series, so he wants to see other models, makes a decision for the Nokia N9597, another rewrite and start searching for this. So in about 11% of the cases there is the initial query which corresponds to the ratio of total queries and query sessions and then a large chunk of the actions of the user is simply going to the next page 65%. Another section is to make it more generic, which is more, which is a much smaller proportion of the search engine. What the topic is about. If we want to go beyond relevance, then the true challenge from multimedia is simply to find a balance between relevancy. And so if you ask me what are they doing, are they searching or browsing? How can we make the search experience, especially for images, better to the user an after the section on diversity I will give you a demo and I will try to identify the components that we have been thinking of to actually address this. And I think First off, I think we should identify different dimensions of diversity. First, I would like to to present you a study of image search query analysis which is all about understanding users. I'm going to show you a video which is all about personalization in social media. This is the image that I like and finally a topic which is not something that I've been personally involved, but which is also my my colleagues which is about automated slicer generation. OK, So what we've tried to do it, and this is a research approach is we try to resolve we we try to detect and resolve the ambiguity and to do that we actually propose in statistical approach which allows us to measure the ambiguity of attacks set not a single thing, but a set of tags. Right, so you're going for an interaction with the user, but you only want to do this when you think that there is a high level of ambiguity because you don't want to bother the user with extra questions when the user would not be interested in it. We still have this problem with ambiguity, so therefore suggesting the terms Massachusetts or United Kingdom is a better idea to resolve the ambiguity then giving you the term. We're using a weighted KL divergent and we use this to detect pairs of text that have the largest impact on reducing the ambiguity. So to identify how much weight we should give to the scale divergent component, we have this function G and we have G in the form of X to the power of P. And here's where we're going to use our ground truth because we want to know. OK, given this text, this text pairs and the ground truth that we have collected from the users. So this is one part of the function. Look like OK understanding users. This notion of visual diversity and there are many applications for this. And then we're just going to look on the textual information. So we want to capture the discriminative aspects of the set of a set of images. There is no predefined order and the images will cast votes to other images and to elect them to be the most representative image if that particular image is not going to be the cluster representative. Here are two examples of color histograms, and you see that the distribution of the color histograms is quite different. The color is that the distribution of the color scheme is much more diverse. So, given that we want to compute the similarity or the distance between images and image A&B. We simply then some over all the features and divide by the number of features to give final distance score. And it can never be stored in a ranked list. And the images will be divided over the different clusterings. The image that is the most representative for this particular cluster and representatives together form the set R, which is the set of images that we would actually return to the user. OK, the second approach, which is the one of the reciprocal election. I think we had about 50 different topics, 50 different queries for which we collected the top 50 results. And so we asked him to assign each image to a cluster we had at most in the interface at most 20 clusters, and they could undo their last action before they actually would start. So this is the volume and the unique number of queries is much smaller than the 1.3 billion, but it's still 75.2 million unique queries that were talking about. To find the images on image search search is about 2.3 nine 2.4 terms per query. So now we have to come up with an evaluation criteria and basically what we want to do is we want to compare the quality of the different partitionings, but the quality of the different customers that we have. So given a set of images and two clusterings which are part of this particular set of images, we want to see what is the overlap between the images that we have here and I'm not going to discuss the metrics in detail, but we actually have two 2 metrics for this. It's basically a clustering equivalent of precision recall. It's like the F measure and high score on the FM index indicates cluster similarity, so FM index high score is good. The other metric, which might be more intuitive to use, is the metrical variation of information, and it tries to measure or try tries to express the difference in the relationship between a point in a cluster over 2 clusterings, and in this case the very variation of information metric. So on the on the FM index we found at a .4 B found a score of point 4.4, two forty intercessor agreement if you would just take a random clustering and we would make many random clusterings of the of the given set of images. So this is a topic of image fingerprinting an our first speaker of the week already. So there's clearly the problem of finding near duplicates on the web. So then there are some some alternative methods. So if you're really interested in this, there's like a paper by a colleague of me, SHS which is about finding your duplicate images on the web and they did an extensive comparison. Learning hash codes for efficient near duplicate detection and there are approaches, but just to give you a bit of the overview, if you're interested in this topic, I think definitely there's a lot of use for it and simply to remove the obvious cases from any application that you're working. So if you if you look at this sort and looking just at the breakdown of entertainment category so they're really looking for celebrities, things that are ready to be TV.