[0.0s - 29.0s]
So. Still, most effort. Initially it was told that blush my colleague from Maribor would give this presentation. So he prepared this presentation but he was not able to come and I will try to do this job so it will be about OK say visualization. But in this case we just. Well, my talk is about remark which is. More or less probably obvious. So if we have some. If we know if the object we graph in question has some structure and we are able to, we know about the structure or real able to encounter the structure. It should be possible to use this structure. To help us understand or visualize the the. The object.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So yeah, OK, I'm ahead of the slides. So knowledge of the structure of the graph. At least 2 two applications. One application which is here not that relevant. But let me just mention it. So if we know the structure of graph then we can design fast algorithms. So in the example given here an example I will I will talk about later. So if we have products or graph products or graph bundles then. Computing the chromatic number which is NP hard problem can be easily or is given by chromatic numbers of the factors by simple formula just maximum of all chromatic numbers of the factors, so it's easier to compute this invariant if we if the graph has product structure for bundles, it's a little more complicated in the case of chromatic number and there is also many more variants which. Where you have simple or nice theorems giving you the value of the invariant from the components or from the factors. The second possibility which I want to talk about here is how can we be helped by the structure when we want to visualize the graph so my claim. Is if we know the structure, it can help and I will. I will give you later a couple of examples only where it will be illustrated, so this is well I could. I could stop here because I told you everything I wanted. But as I have some time I will. I will go on and review some results about this particular structures. Graph structures. So product

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, just a moment on the literature. Again briefly or I don't. I am not intending obviously to to give any survey of literature on the graph drawing. I just want to mention, for example, that Ladder was recently very successful in one of the competitions at the graph drawing conference, which is. Series of conferences. Storm already mentioned it, so there are people who for years do quite a lot on graph drawing. Then there is a second topic which I mentioned here. This is about graph products and again we have nice book by Wilfred and our colleagues and the closure on product graphs. And there is so the results I would mention and many more on on this topic. Graph bundles are less studied and there is less literature on graph bundles. But again there is a good reason to mention graph bundles. This is. An invention of Ljubljana School of graph theory. If I may call it like this. So Tomo and Joshua Taylor and user Roberts wrote the 1st paper on Graph bundles. And so I mentioned us also as contribution tours to some recent recent results on graph bundles. There is some more references in the abstract and. Definitely not everything, which should be.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Should we mention so among graph products, there are four graph products which are. Kind of D products. The product the that are that are studied or are interesting. So first, product OK Pictures now come this is blush blush invention. Just so first product is the Cartesian product, where here what is drawn is the product of two of two copies of. So we have, let's say, G1G2. These are D graphs and when we multiply we. Take the Cartesian product of the vertex sets and then we connect the. So this is the Cartesian product of the. Vertex. Sets and then. Then we connect the vertices according to some some rules and as you see in the Cartesian product, which is which somehow I don't know in some sense the nicest or the easiest product. We just copy the factors onto so-called players. So the second product, the direct product or categorical. Product or there is many names for this product. This is kind of the most natural among the products. And here we connect two vertices which are if the. If both projections are edges in the factors, then the strong product is kind of we can say union of of H is given by the Union of Edge sets of the Cartesian direct product and lexicographic product is a little different. So what we have here is. We have so it is not. It is not symmetric, it is not commutative, so it's it's important which factor is the 1st and the 2nd. And as we see we have all edges between copies of the columns of the second factor.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
OK. Well, Cartesian product many. We have many many examples of Cartesian products, well examples which are well known graphs. For example, hypercubes also well known in computer Sciences architectures. Square lattice is an interesting graph which appears to be. Known OK, some more examples. Hypercubes well. Cube hypercube of dimension 3.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Now. Some. Results briefly. It is well known for quite some time. The result is due to subdue, see and. That the product relation. Now we are we talk about relation relations among edges of. The Star replaces any any of the products, so relations among the edge sets of the of the product graph and so we do see. Show that there is a unique product relation, so every all finite connected graphs can be uniquely factorized. In the sense that there is a unique product relation and this means that we can we can list all the factors. So the order and the order of the factors is not important, but or it is unique up to the order of the factors. End isomorphism, of course now. How this product relation can be computed this source well, now it is not that recent result. More than 10 years old or so it is, it is now known that it can be. It can be computed in time. And times N so polynomial relatively fast, so this is the size of the edge set and the size of the vertex set, so in. With an elegant and fast algorithm, this this one is due to do further, but we also with Wilfred had some similar results at the at the time. So the product relation can be computed fast and hence the recognition is of the Cartesian product is.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Is fast, so maybe useful. OK, some more applications, Hamming graphs for example used in coding theory. And. Let me just mention this may little overlap with the with or will fit will be talking a little bit. Maybe in this direction so. This is another set of problems on another area of research of interest in the in the products which we with interesting results. So we have a product with a little part of it missing, say one vertex on or not too many vertices missing. And is it possible to reconstruct the original structure and well for? Some problems we know the problem is polynomial. Let's say if one vertex is missing and we know the structure is was Cartesian product, it is. It can be reconstructed and it can be reconstructed in polynomial time and there is more to it. But I will not go into more details here.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Now, just briefly about the other products for the direct product, there is a polynomial algorithm for recognition due to Wilfred, but well in my. So this algorithm is. Not that simple, I should say. And so for the strong product, the Union of edges of Cartesian and Direct product. So it's not surprising that there is a polynomial algorithm for recognition, but I may say that these two algorithms have quite something in common. In fact, one could be used as generic. The first one could be a generic yeah, OK. First line. I generalized wanna play yes thank you for before. For the first order of appearance in the 1st place, but in putting the data later, but yours generalizes.
