OK, I'm going to be talking about massively multilingual language technologies. Here is the official Alex. The line for the new play was changed by the scriptwriter. In this case, it really is he the actor's line. Their line for the new play got tangled with other props, or this must be some kind of rope. That means we won't go to the store an inkala suit. It is not likely that anyone is going to Pittsburgh. So in machine translation, this is the typical VO qua triangle. You can perform syntactic parsing and by transfer rules come up to an equivalent form in the other language. The one that is best known, of course is the Heisenberg principle uncertainty principle, which says that it's impossible to measure the location and momentum of an object. But there's an exception. It is impossible to measure the location and activity of Alex precisely in simultaneously. He appears to be all over the globe doing 100 different things at one time successfully. And that is bridging the linguistic divide or bring building a linguistic bridge. Now until recently, much of the concern in the humanitarian world was bridging the digital divide. Smartphones have done gone a long way towards bridging the digital divide now completely, but they are well on their way. There are almost 7000 languages in the world. But we want to give the people who speak the other 99% of the languages also access to this information. And I'm proud to say that Alex has been at the very core of this from the beginning. And the research directions are the ones we're already embarked in of combining linguistics and statistics paradigms for cross language scalability like transfer and proactive learning, and all kinds of interesting applications. We started the Center for Machine translation in the 80s. We're all familiar with the huge number of languages in India, of which there are 400 languages that are registered a larger number of dialects. I was told there are three of them. Just in case you thought that North America was trilingual, English, Spanish and French, that's not the case, because there are still speakers of many of the Native American languages in the US and Canada. However, if you look in the English Japanese Dictionary, there's like 28 different meanings, 28 translations of line depending on the context. Power line is dense and subway line is Chica Tetsu.