So as previous research has shown, we can observe conceptual structures and hierarchies from folksonomies. So our results on analyzing emergent semantics indicate that stream aggregations or the type of stream aggregations may influence emerging semantics, so hashed extreme aggregations are rather robust against external disturbances, and useless streams seem to be quite prone to external disturbances, so here on the left side you see an extract of network generated from a #stream. Hashtag seem to be good context indicators because the resource ontologies obtained from the resource hashtag networks reveal good latent conceptual structures. Well, in the first part of my talk I introduced you to our network theoretic model of social awareness dreams and showed you our structural stream measures which we used to study different structural aspects of social awareness, dreams and in the second part I showed you our first empirically results on a small data set of course, and our research suggests that Twitter namiz our results illustrate that with Donna Miss. May emerge from social awareness dreams, but that their emergence depends on the different types of stream aggregations which we can observe, and on the different types of network transformations which we can use. So to what extent are these stream measures? So basically social awareness streams consists of users, messages and content of messages and the content of messages can be words, URLs, and other user defined syntax such as hashtags slash tax or at replies. So to formally define the structure of social event streams, we developed a network theoretic model and we formally define social awareness streams as tuples of users, messages, resources and relations between them. And why is the ternary relation which relates users with messages and hashtags messages and our resources and FTC function which assigns to every relation the temporal marker. So we did our first experiment in order to explore the nature of different social awareness, stream aggregation types. So we wanted to study under one handed structure of these dreams and on the other hand, semantics which may potentially emerge from them. So the data set we used in our experiment were four different stream aggregations acquired from Twitter, so all stream aggregations were related with the same topic, namely Semantic Web, and all of them were recorded within the same time interval. So as I said before, we defined several structural stream measures in order to study different structural aspects of these dreams and to compare these streams according to the structure. Is the measure which indicates how many different users participate in the stream and how evenly distributed the participation efforts are, so the social diversity basically consists of two sub measures, namely the social variety and the social balance.