And not like graphical models in general. So first I want to kind of introduce a couple of basic elements on elements of Bayesian networks, so directed graphical models. I will spend the second part on latent variable models. And the third part will be on conditional models for supervised learning, and I will focus only on regressions. So I prefer not to do that in the beginning because it's a bit painful, so I introduce a couple of elements of probability, probability theory and statistics. So directed graph directed graphs are called Bayesian networks or basic base. So you have like different names for the same thing. First, with the conditional independence property. So I think you might have discussed that also on the first day with Frances at least yesterday a little bit. This is like P of X given y * Y. So if you look at the the joint here P of XY given some other variable Z, if you apply the rules of probability you have like you can decompose in this way. Here's some examples, but so from real life I would say so if you can. My grandmother, genome condition on my mother's genome. If you look at the so going to define like a graph, what's the probability graphical model we consider some set of random variables? So in fact this is going to introduce some structure in the joint distribution of this genre. And So what we call the base network is a set of probability distributions associated with a directed acyclic graph. So we say that a node, so not a. You will have specific to risation of the joint distribution, so that's that's one example. In this way you have like for a graph of nodes. So those are all PN are all the random variables that are the parents of XN. You only condition on some variables that are close to the extent, so that touching with some. So you're using one dependencies, so that's why you have like K -- 1 parameters because there's one constraint. And now if you look at the factorized version, then. Many of the slides are using Chris Bishop's pattern recognition machine learning book. Recommend like one or two little. Statistics is quite important, so I will be talking about statistical machine learning. It's like it's really interaction between static statistics and computer science. So you want to extract what is really important. And so today I will focus on strategy. Leads us to the concept of the separation. And so roughly the idea of the separation you want to have a rule that tells you OK, if I have a large graphical model which are the parts that are independent from one another. So if you remember, in those cases you had conditional independency between the different parts and or you have an observed head to head note of which number descendants are observed. Then you can say that is condition dependent on be given, see if all the possible path from A to B are blocked. Those servers are independent and those are or not. So that helps you to reason on the graph directly. Another important properties important notion is the Markov blanket. I mean, in general, is the minimal set of nodes you have to you have to take into account to isolate one specific variable from the rest of the graph? So we consider that there are some we have some some data that are drawn IID. Is that the different observations are drawn from the same distribution. Data depends on the parameters. One, this maximum likelihood. Likelihood is joint probability of the observations. So if you just like. And so the goal in maximum likelihood is you have this log likelihood function. Because the likelihood or is unbounded. For small data set that happens much more easily, So what what the typical approach is to look at. Then depending on the difficulty of the problem, you have to do some more fancy things. Is that the intersection of probability theory and graph theory? So you can already make some conclusion or make some some. So it's also interesting because based on those properties you kind of able. If you have like a very complex model, you able to separate them in different parts and then only look at those specific parts, do the inference onto the learning and then you have like given given that you're looking at probability theory, that's kind of the way. And in fact, the main point is that when you're looking at. So based inference asset is interested in the full posterior, so you want to view teacher not as a parameter. If you want this more anymore, you want it as a random variable. You want to infer the probability of that given given the data instead of a point estimate. On on base rule when you have like. So graphical models are applied in lots of lots of situations. It's going from bad formatics as I said, to document processing, speech processing, image processing. People use in general Markov random fields. Then some interesting properties like this separation and Markov blanket that help you reason on on graphs directly and then finally I will spend some time how to do learning in Bayesian networks so.