It's because it's trying to convey that we built a very flexible model, flexible meaning. Kim Sellers and Kim and I took up some of the complex on work that we did earlier and we took it further to develop regression models for count data. So when when we teach count data in statistics programs and we want to introduce the POS on distribution, the classic example that you'll find in every textbook and I don't know if anybody is taking a statistics course from a statistics professor is the number of deaths from horse kicks in the Prussian army. We had a bunch of data on sales of socks and just looking at how many were sold. OK, so that's just what we get here. We worked on a data disclosure problem, so the problem here is that, let's say you're some kind of an agency and you want to share data with the public or with companies or whatever it is and you have count data. So examples are European female red mites on Apple leaves. They used uninformative priors and also cranked. And because it's exponential family and we found the link function that kind of works really nicely. It doesn't only generalize person regression. The link function turns out just to be log of Lambda, that's it. And this actually also gives you logistic regression. And you can do maximum likelihood estimation. And the other option is again the kind of traditional statistics ways to write this whole thing out and get to normal normal equations. So this is kind of the traditional way of doing things iteratively reweighted least squares, and what's kind of interesting. So email traffic visits to websites, calls to service centers. Only the estimates of the betas, and then you can test the hypothesis whether new is equal to 1 or not. We can do deviance residuals as well to see if something in the Y space is not working very well. There's also a negative binomial regression, which will work for overdispersion, but it won't work for under this version, you have logistic regression if you have binary data, some people will do linear regression of log of Y, and we actually had this originally in the paper and one of the referees, who is a very kind of strict statistician, said you should not do that and we want to take it out of the paper. One is airfreight breakage, so you have these ampoules that you're shipping to someplace and they're going by plane, and there are connections. It's a direct marketing campaign they try to sell some art book. So our response is a number of annual crashes and they have 861 intersections in Toronto. As I said that the red herring and they use uninformative priors and they. So then we realized we had to change the name of the distribution, and in fact the paper that we wrote was called revival of the Compass on. Now you see it, now you don't. I like it because it's parsimonious, you're only dealing with these two parameters and computational efficiency sometimes yes, and sometimes no. They know how to deal with logistic regression. But I wouldn't be surprised if there is. Weaknesses so this closed form issue really bugs people. And as I said, there's some computational issues and depending on the level of dispersion that you'll have, you'll for instance have to run that see function longer or shorter. For them. There are a bunch of methodological extensions that we're aware of. At this point. OK, anybody here know exponential family?