There is a split between. So we talk now about algorithms based on nonparametric density estimation. So this is a probability density is a function F of X. Or in the domain where the data like. But to do this first you have to have a smooth function that covers the data. This simple kernel density estimation doesn't go far in D and also finding level sets is not easy if you are in more than one dimension. You compute the levels. OK, and to find connected components in low dimensions is not that hard in high dimensions. And then they put if two points are connected by segment that is inside the level set they are put in the same cluster and then it's easy to find the clusters by this. Then it is possible to so basically, if two points are in the same cluster at this level, they will not. In particular, it's important to know whether in your problem. We'll continue talking about vector data. So what is the problem of selecting K in practice? So for example, if I take a mixture of Gaussians with K groups K components, each of them being a Gaussian with full covariance matrix, then I would have the following. Maybe this cluster could be split into two and that would give us a better model, and in that case it tries to find the best split and attempt some. With and it's cost with the cost of a clustering with K clusters on on a data set that has no clusters at all. That's the idea. And then from this artificial data you compute the cost of the clustering. And low dimensions maybe? And therefore they don't take these choices to take the smallest K such that its gap is greater than the the next gap. There's never a large jump because I'm just taking a few points from this center and adding another center, and so the decay will be. This part is better motivated. I look at another set of methods for choosing K which are completely different. So and work is in progress and probably new results will be coming. Actually, the general solution is to go to nonparametric clustering. You introduce a cluster with a very large Sigma. Remedy, and that is to estimate the clusters by robust method methods. Hard to eliminate small clusters. Or you will not see all the games and that is the philosophical problem.