So it's a very rich set of information and I wanna go even further in tell you that not only can they understand speech, this is untrained. We've all met deaf people. People naturally understand full speed feedback without prior training. So the 2nd way already explaining that you can create the squeeze film effect on top of a piece of glass. When a caller hakuna visual attention, it's a sort of very simple idea. So if I'm frame onto frame 2, one of the boys changing. The three conditions, valid cues means attacking on the right shoulder, and I'll show you some change in that direction. So for that we need I tracker so we put a visual scene in front of the subjects. This is what happens if you don't get people tactile cues and you just give them this change blindness task in most and we look at number of initial saccades. So I think we can see that have to clean visual attention really works with his friends, tend to look where they had accused director. This is effortless without much training. So we think haptic spatial cues can be natural and effective in a multimodal system. We focus on maximizing water MoD capacity to improve robustness while guaranteeing intercept ability. We basically developing new 3D visual haptic watermarking schemes where we take advantage of the different sensory capabilities of the two sensor mechanism. We first develop a 3D visual watermarking scheme that's covered up. So that's a good exercise and then we extended that to roughness adaptive approach from visual to visual haptic watermarking and the way we determine how much signal you can have. So there are three conditions. Practically Lawton, visual haptic combined on each child. The difference in visual haptic, watermark detection threshold and explored to maximize watermark strength depending on local surface roughness and this increase. Bonnie and the work was funded by the National Science Foundation and MacDonald Neuroscience Foundation, Oxford. OK, so these are the full kind of receptors and this one tactile sensing. It's made by Force dimension Switzerland.