To find out to represent this joint development so I will present you are quickly this motivation and then I will present what are algebras of alignment relationship can be approved for doing this, But the most important part of the talk will be the end because it's not really a very outstanding things. The matching process is very often made of having several matters, providing alignments and aggregating these alignments, and you may want to aggregate them in different ways. OK, and sometimes you've got competing matters and you want to take only the result that have a good result in all the matches that have good confidence in all the matter or so you would like to do. Some intersection in this case, and sometimes also you've got two ontology which are not related and what you want to do is to take an intermediate ontology and to compose two mapping which goes from the first ontology through intermediate. OK, an I would say this will tend to be more and more common as we have more and more alignments available on the web and on the web or on the server. So we've got our set data now, so this is a set of relations. And you also have this composition operator that helps you too. You can just read it will give you equivalent. Which are the base relation and they are jointly exhaustive and pairwise disjoint. I know that the relation is subsume or equivalent to. OK, this is an insert in relation because you don't know if it's subsumed or equivalent. So equals means that classes are equivalent subsumed by that the first class is subsumed by the second one. Of course we can add new relations OK. For example, imagine that you add new entities are instances, so you will have to enumerate all the relationship between instances. They are equal or different relationship between instances or class and class of incenses. So you can consider foundational relations such as part of for example by saying that the classes. OK, these are relations that can be asserted not really between classes, but between classes as domain. OK, so this is a composition table. Compose with Epsom by will give you overlaps or is subsumed by this is what we saw before and between composed with equal will give you overlaps composed with equal will give you overlaps, and then you do the union of this and this will give you that. Just to say that one of the operators that I haven't mentioned before is a change of granularity. I told you that you can have alignments using algebra of relations, but I did not told you which one. On that, I convince you as well that they are very natural tool for many operation that you may want to do on the alignment themselves. OK, and there there is hope that they can be made compatible with confidence measure. Is mostly made for me in what I call alignment management. That is the idea that you are able to find easily many of different alignments and what you want to do is to combine them in order to get the alignment between the actual information that you that you want. Alignment is a set of correspondence of or mapping, and each correspondence is one of these arrows, and so it is made of the two extremity of the arrows and his extremities are, let's say. The relations are taken for set that we call data, and the confidence are taken from another set that we could exceed.