[0.0s - 29.0s]
So this work started from a real world application. This has been submitted to me by 100 hundred Hammers from University Polytechnic, Madrid, where it was trying to merge several repository's or let's say several ontologies from spatial database in the geographic domain. And each problem was that he had several measures able to provide him with potential alignments, but it was not. This much are coming from different points of view. We are giving him in Rizal that you would have two different result that it would have like to keep. And so he asked me. If there were a way to find disjunctively?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Payment. So the answer is yes. To find out to represent this joint development so I will present you are quickly this motivation and then I will present what are algebras of alignment relationship can be approved for doing this, But the most important part of the talk will be the end because it's not really a very outstanding things. These are Jabra been out for quite awhile now. What I would like to show you is a benefits that you can have in doing this and there are benefits I think are quite.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Related

[87.0s - 116.0s]
To the to the next talk as well. So here what you can see is apart of two on Facr ontologies which are related to element that you can may want to display in a in a map and in particular you've got administrative areas as they are defined at the European level. What you would like to do when you put in geographic information together is to be able to know what.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Corresponds to what and you can have sources various sources that provide you alignments, so to be clear, this is an alignment. The two blue Arrows which is made of two mappings in the sense presented by another charges before, so the mappings are each of these arose, so the first one say that construction construction in German is totally disjoint from administrative area. A building is not a County, for instance, and stat. Well. Is Sue more equal by municipality and there is a great which tells you that. Well, we have 80% confidence in these two.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And there can be another alignment may be found on, extracted from the system just presented before, which has other information about the correspondences between other element that we show here and this problem that was more precisely when there were several rows between the same pairs of objects, and that he wanted to preserve all the informati.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
That was that was given by these arrows. So let's explain briefly what we call an. Alignment is a set of correspondence of or mapping, and each correspondence is one of these arrows, and so it is made of the two extremity of the arrows and his extremities are, let's say. Entities from the ontology for the moment. OK, but in fact it can be more complex. The relations are taken for set that we call data, and the confidence are taken from another set that we could exceed. And for the beginning of the talk, we will restrict ourselves to. We restrict ourselves to. Correspondence is without considering the.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
The confidence measure. So if we rephrase that, what we wanted to do first is that, for example, imagine that I know that stat and tone are somewhat related, because in my 2 bases I have two different instance that belong to both OK, and I'm able to identify that bit that they are the same instances. So I know that they cannot be disjoint. OK, but this is all I know, so the problem is, how can I represent this? What is the relation that I have here?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And the second point is that, for example, I have two independent positive alignment which provide me the information that Dad gave. It is as an intersection with municipality overlaps, municipality and start Kabita either is subsumed by or is equivalent to municipality and I.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
I want to put that together so again, what is a relation? OK so.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The question is what is this set data? What can we put there?

[319.0s - 348.0s]
But they are more OK. The matching process is very often made of having several matters, providing alignments and aggregating these alignments, and you may want to aggregate them in different ways. Sometimes. OK, maybe you've got measures that provide evidence for correspondence using techniques which are independent, and then you want to do the disjunction OK. You want to do. Add add this evidence. OK, and sometimes you've got competing matters and you want to take only the result that have a good result in all the matches that have good confidence in all the matter or so you would like to do. Some intersection in this case, and sometimes also you've got two ontology which are not related and what you want to do is to take an intermediate ontology and to compose two mapping which goes from the first ontology through intermediate. Apology on the intermediate ontology to the last one in order to obtain a new mapping. So this is another way to aggregate this. OK, an I would say this will tend to be more and more common as we have more and more alignments available on the web and on the web or on the server. Like Natasha Joseph presented. So the question is how to combine this. And so. Um? When I had a question for me, it was obvious that they.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The answer was algebra off relations, so I won't tell you that I made the plenty of experiments hypothesis which fails, and I come back. Now I say this is it, so This is why I say this is not really something as soon.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So relation algebra came from the work of Tarski, and you would want it to be able to have a vocabulary of relations and compose them. So we've got our set data now, so this is a set of relations. The element of this set are correlations and we are able to combine them with conjunction disjunction. We also like for relation of an inverse operator, OK, which is the little negation and at the bottom that will tell you what is the inverse of a relation, subsumed assume by for instance. And you also have this composition operator that helps you too. Say that if a subsumed by B&B subsumed by C then a system by see OK. So I put a little expression at the bottom, and so it says that I want to compose. Subsumes are subsumed markwell and two with Suman equivalent two and then I want to do the conjunction of this with soup soup. My or equivalent. OK so I will first apply the composition and I hope you will agree with me that the composition of the two first terms are a subsume or equivalent to. An and then doing the conjunction of these two relation. You can just read it will give you equivalent. OK, so this is what we want, but if you look at the last term I want to find the relation which is a disjunction of subsume are equivalent to and is subsumed by our equivalent to OK and then in our vocabulary we don't really have a relation for this. So the point is not too so we can invent one and put it in a relation algebra but there.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
One systematic way to do this, which is why we called a power set relation algebra and this power set relation algebra are very well known because for example, the Allen Temporal algebra developed in AI is typically this OK and all the algebra relation which have been made for expressing spatial relation are also powerset relation algebra, so they are built on a set of entities that I called gamma here or set of relation. Which are the base relation and they are jointly exhaustive and pairwise disjoint. This means that if you take any two object in your domain OK, these objects are in one and only one of these relations. OK, so this is a very important properties and but you will be able to express your your uncertainty. OK, you will be able to express that well. I know that the relation is subsume or equivalent to. OK, this is an insert in relation because you don't know if it's subsumed or equivalent. And this is very simple, because the set of relation here is a power set of this set gamma. So all the subset of the set gamma will be a relation, so a subset is a relation in this case, and the operators that we have for conjunction disjunction are all the classical operator on set that is union intersection. You can even define the compliment here. We will have composition will come back to that later, which will be which is given by a composition table on the basic basic relations and then you distribute it on the other relations and we've got to define the inverse as well. So if we take back the small small example that I had before, so the relations that we had are now replaced by set of basic relations. OK, so assume or equal to the set containing subsume and equal. Now the operator will be set intersection, so if you assume that the first one give you subsume issue 2 unequal too, and you do the intersection with subsumes. Any or equal to then the intersection is equal, so this is exactly the same result as before, so we are happy with that. But now we can express the disjunction by the Union, and this is 1 relation of our algebra.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK. So, so this is related also to the previous talk that we had before Natasha. If you remember, those list of relation that were there. OK, now I propose you to use a simple algebra here which is just based on the fact that if we are relating classes and they are interpreted as set, then we can use relation among sets. So equals means that classes are equivalent subsumed by that the first class is subsumed by the second one. Subsumes that the first class subsumes a second one overlaps that the class overlaps, but there is not one of them, which which is subsuming the other and classes are disjoint. OK, if you remember the slides with a list of relation that we had before there was the I don't know relation as well. In this case the I don't know relation is not a base relation, so it is not a relation in the bottom. It's a relation is a relation of the top OK if you assert that the relation between two entities gamma. So that's just mean that you don't know you know. That is one of these, because it's a jointly exhaustive, but you don't know which one.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
We can recognize here, so these are all the relations in the sense of algebra relation that we get from this base relations. I did not figure out the empty set because no two entities can be in relation with by the anti set. So it means that you've got an inconsistency there. If you discover the empty set. Um, OK, so we'll take this.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
I put in Orangetown well known relations, such as subsume or equivalent, for instance, which is there or the one above is different. OK, it means that they are not equal. This is a compliment of the echo here.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Of course we can add new relations OK. For example, imagine that you add new entities are instances, so you will have to enumerate all the relationship between instances. They are equal or different relationship between instances or class and class of incenses. And you can build an algebra with that. You can over also consider other relation as Natasha mention. So you can consider foundational relations such as part of for example by saying that the classes. But in order or you can use application relations such As for example, being capital of which will have the inverse relation As for capital. OK, these are relations that can be asserted not really between classes, but between classes as domain. Before this should be pairwise disjoint, it means that for having the best relation, we should build 2 algebra and merge them by doing a product.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Not merely Adam, but. This should work. So, knowing what we've done is that we decided that in our relations in our alignment we will have a set of base relation which are part of a structure which is a relation algebra.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
But what for? So for problem was to represent disjunction, so this can easily be done if I want to.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
That these two concepts are not disjoint. I can use this relation. OK, this says exactly this. Either they are equal, 1 subsume another, or they are overlapping, but not so.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Humane shelter if I want to merge two correspondences that I have here like that, give it overlap municipality and should give it is subsumed by municipal issues.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
By Oracle municipality. I just have to transform.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Listen to my algebra at the moment and do the union. OK, so this is.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Basically what we wanted to do. We can, I say, aggregate the result of the.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Payment to disjunction of contract or conjunction. For example, this is is a disjunction. So basically we will here take the line which concerns the same pair of entities and what we will do is to do the Union of the. The relations, and so this tells you that, for example, if that is subsumed by tone and on the other way on the other side. I don't know if I know that there is a relation between Staten Tone. The disjunction will be that there is a relation between Staten Tone. I don't take any any risk here. OK, you can remark that the construction. This joint from municipality as I disappear here and the reason is that you can imagine this alignment as normalized OK when you don't say anything about two concept. It means that you don't know.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Anything, and if you don't know anything, this means that in a four you add the full set of relation between construction and municipality, and here if you do the Union then the full set will remain OK.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So basically it's equivalent to say.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Ace you can.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
In the same, in the same way, the conjunction here so.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
You can imagine that this is exactly in the same way you will have this. This complementation of the two alignments, but here it really doesn't matter, since nothing is there an you do the intersec.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
What will happen is that you will find construction is this wrong. For municipalities that is a section by tone and for the last line you do the intersection of the two relation and we've got our relation.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
OK, so composition. Composition is made by. I've got two alignments between 010 second and also can, uh, no prime. OK, but no alignment between 010 prime. How can I take advantage of?

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
This OK so I will take advantage of this by composing my 2 hours.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Payments and for doing this I will use.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
The composition of the relations. OK, so this is a composition table. OK, it says, for example that, well, we can read the. Well, we could take on one if a overlaps B&B is subsumed by C then I will be able to deduce that. Where a is subsumed by CRA or it overlaps see. So this should be in the table as well here. So when we've got a relation from a relation algebra composing the two relation means just a distributing the composition operator on the base relation in old in the two relations, and then make the Union OK. So this is what is done in the first line with the expression. Then we apply the. Composition table so is subsumed by composed with disruption by will give is subsumed by is subsumed by compose with equal, with give is subsumed by overlaps. Compose with Epsom by will give you overlaps or is subsumed by this is what we saw before and between composed with equal will give you overlaps composed with equal will give you overlaps, and then you do the union of this and this will give you that. The composition of these two relation is subsumed by overlaps OK and OK this is just given by the algebra of relation and now you can compose your alignments.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So here is a concrete example of this. So this is relatively simple. Here we can do the composition of between construction and municipality. Becausw construction is disjoint from commune and commune is marginal or equal to municipality, and you understand here that this means that construction is disjoint from municipalities. This is what we will have. So what we do we apply the composition between these two relation which OK which amounts to? Distribute OK this joint and is more disjoint or subsume will mean disjoint and disjoint are equal composed with equal will win this round?

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So the result will be disjoined OK. So I'm.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Don't do the other one, but there are other cases because when you compose two alignment, you can have several composition path. OK, and this is the case here because I can reduce the relation between construction and municipality by going through, nor to Ville. Now. OK so this is what we will do here. So we will do in dependently the two paths the two passes and we will intersect them. OK, so this is what is written in the first line, so we will have the same result for the first term. And the other disjoint composed with overlaps will provide.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
This run. No. Look at the table. So if you look at the table it will provide either disjoint overlaps or is subsumed by.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
And when you do the intersection, you find again this wrong. This is what you expect between construction and when.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Quality. How long do I have it? 5 minutes OK so I will skip this. Just to say that one of the operators that I haven't mentioned before is a change of granularity. I told you that you can have alignments using algebra of relations, but I did not told you which one. You can invent several different alignments, relation algebra and for instance you can weaken the algebra that you have. For example, if you have a matcher which only provide equality relation, then you can use a very simple algebra operation with equality non equality. And I don't know OK, and so you can use this and it so it is compatible with the algebra that we consider so far. OK, this is just a weakening of it. OK, so we are able to define.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Also operator that will weaken or threaten threaten the algebraic relation. So that means that you can convert a representation from an algebra to another. Of course when you will weaken your algebra you will lose some information. OK, but I've developed the older theory of this stuff a few years ago in the context of temporal represent.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
So what we have presented so far is just this. All the example and the first part of the paper artist. So in that sense this is relatively complementary to what Natasha presented before. That is now, if you've got a library containing plenty of different alignments and you've got you want to have a do a particular task, then you may not rely on one alignment, but you may want to combine these alignment. OK, we have seen composition. But you may want to do disjunction contraction etc. So we've got all these operators here and you can either do it at at. At the design time, then you record this workflow and you will apply when you need it. Or you can do it at runtime by evaluating the.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Payment. OK so I will come back very quickly to the last element which is related to the confidence factor. I did not say that confidence element should be between zero and one. They are just part of a structure which is another set with maximal and minimal element. OK and from this we are able to define what it means for correspondence to untap another very at this level OK and we will say that. Correspondence until another one, if it has a. A smaller set of relation and a higher confidence. OK so this is. This is what is written here. If you are. I'm sure at 80% at 90% that. That the start is subsumed by tone then I'm also sure at 80% that start is either subsumed or equal to two.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
This is really natural, and of course you can continue or suppressing element in the relation and lowering the.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
The confidence that something more important is that this is always true. OK, I'm always sure at 100% that stat is related to tone by one of the relation in my algebra. OK, so this will be the neutral element that you used to compliment when you do the disjunction, the alignment.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
So I will go very fast. So just from this definition you are able to use a Boolean constraint to define what is a conjunction and disjunction. OK, so of course you will if you want to do this junction you will do the Union and you will minimize the. The confidence and you will do exactly the opposite for the counteraction, and this works very well in theory. But in practice and practice is not really very good, because this means that if you add something, you're not really sure, then the confidence that you will have a new wall set will be will be very weaker, so you lose a lot of information when you do this kind of operation. OK, so you may want to use.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
The alternate formulation for this function of unsubscription, disjunction, and conjunction, and find another way of doing this, so I gave two operators here, but then in theory it doesn't always work the way you expect, so we gave an example in the in the paper when all the property on.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Unsatisfied OK so I come to the conclusion. So I first that I have convinced you that alignment relation algebra are a great tool for representing disjunction of Alamal firm of relation within the alignment. On that, I convince you as well that they are very natural tool for many operation that you may want to do on the alignment themselves. OK, and there there is hope that they can be made compatible with confidence measure. You know a very reasonable way. And we also started to use this for comparing alignment when we are evaluating result in in in evaluation of matching algorithm and this has been presented by Jerome David at the last Ontology matching Workshop. Anne. So this work.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Is mostly made for me in what I call alignment management. That is the idea that you are able to find easily many of different alignments and what you want to do is to combine them in order to get the alignment between the actual information that you that you want. Unfortunately, it's not yet implemented and I I plan to do this for the next, not next release, but the next major release of the Alignment API and that we can try to. Investigated in this mall.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
OK, thank you very much. Question. How difficult would it be to? Operate this into your automatic mapping tools. OK, so the incorporating this in the in the mapping tools is. Will not be very difficult, they need. They need mostly some support and for example what you provide with the Alignment API. Everything is relatively abstract, but the structure of the. Jabra operation is not there yet. So it's. Kind of reengineering then for the mapping tool. The difficulties that they provide these relations. OK so um. We we we are starting now to see that many mapping tool are able to provide different kind of relations. It seems subsumption relation are quite in quite common, so we discussed at the ontology matching workshop that next time we should have a dedicated track run for system detected subsumption. There are also a number of systems which are made like we have been presented before for matching folksonomy or tag system, and we choose course OK and schools also provide a different kind of relation, broader now or. So the problem is here, is that OK? This relation are so informal, and so you know so that it's very difficult to say that this relation I jointly exhaustive and pairwise digital. OK, so that's another another question. So the problem with the two having the support for this is very useful. Not really for the matching tools, initial matching tools, basic machine tools, but it's very useful when you want to combine the alignments OK and this. Doesn't really depend on the matching tool. It really depends that you provide the support for doing this OK and this is what we plan to do. Everybody, I guess everybody, yeah? Thank you very much, thank you.
