I'd like to comment while this work is on learning mixtures of Gaussians along the way, I'll introduce a number of tools and techniques which I think will be very interesting for more general learning problems. The first interpretation is just saying the PDF is a convex combination of Gaussian PDFs this great analytically, but doesn't really give you much intuition on what's going on, which leads to the second interpretation. Along the way I mentioned there's going to be some tools. First of all, how do we remove part of a distribution which we already know? Second, how do we robustly estimate the parameters of the distribution and 3rd which is the second step, which I just described? How to generate the set of hypothesis hypothesis distributions. Another mentioned before we want at least one good hypothesis. Well, we want one hypothesis such that the parameters are close to the true parameters and using a little bit of analysis you can see that this implies the desired statistical distance bound. There's a classic problem of learning one Gaussian. Like if we took the sample moments would be sort of mixing up samples from each component, and it's not directly clear what to do here. In this cartoon picture you can see that this like tall, skinny Gaussian kind of stands out a lot. OK, so we know what the tall skinny Gaussian is, and in some sense which we'll get to in the next few slides. At least one of which describes this guy, right? Now, if we knew which candidate was the right one, could we remove this tall skinny component? I promised you how do we remove part of the distribution? Roughly, the DKW inequality says if we take over one over epsilon squared samples from a distribution X, we can output a hypothesis X hat which is close to epsilon, close to the unknown distribution. We note that this Kolmogorov distance, which is weaker than statistical distance. The model we are working in is the PAC learning model and our learning goal will be proper learning. The sample will be fed to our algorithm A and our algorithm A has to output a hypothesis X hat, which is also a mixture of two Gaussians. We comment that statistical distance is also equal to total variation distance and it's equal to 1/2 the L1 distance. So I'm going to walk you through the steps of how we subtract out the known component. OK, we have the CDF and like I said, we're going to the DKW inequality and this gives us a discretized distribution which has a CDF close to the original. Well, the idea is if we know the component, we also know it's CDF and so we can just subtract out the CDF of that component. Now we're learning one almost Gaussian. Finally, we can appeal to robust statistics, which is a very broad field of study. What does it mean? And even cooler, that this is entirely determined by the other component. In proper learning, I'll define that a bit more carefully, as well as a few other learning goals. Recently, independently and concurrently with our work, there was work by Acharya ET al, which also is based on the Chevy estimator. Finally, there is our result, which is the general estimator which requires minimal access to the hypothesis. In terms of a milder access to the hypothesis, first of all, it requires sample access, which is very natural, and second, it requires something called a PDF competitor for every pair of hypothesis. First of all, there is the naive approach used by the classic results I mentioned in this they set up a tournament which compares every pair of distributions. So us we get around this by setting up a single elimination tournament instead of doing the N squared comparisons. This results in an error of two to the log N times epsilon. So we show that these two cases if the density of good hypothesis is small, then you can imagine or sorry, the error propagation will not happen and the reason is because the great hypothesis will make it very far in the tournament without being stopped by anyone else. How do you hypothesis selection to pick a good one? Most Interestingly, I think of the time complexity of KGO memes. So I'm going to talk about some of the prior work. Theoretically, though, the sample complexity and time complexity both have very large exponents, even though they didn't try to optimize these exponents. Next, very recently, actually a result by Channa Dal gives an improper learning algorithm for mixtures of Gaussians. This has sample complexity, which is total of 1 over epsilon squared and a time complexity which is again polynomial. But the focus of this talk will be on proper learning, and there's two recent results in this field which are independent and someone concurrent wanted by Charlie Attalan. Both of these algorithms achieve near optimal sample complexity of one over epsilon squared. We note that our algorithm bypasses this in both sample and time complexity because we're dealing with proper learning rather than parameter estimation. We also comment that they have a matching upper bound, but it's in a slightly different version of parameter estimation which isn't immediately extendable to proper learning.