For instance, the diary result it's ranked within top five and result for tempering is also comparable to the state of result. Besides, our method is one of the most efficient method among those long GPU method. For instance the first monster data set contains very very complex surface of the object. And there's some more results. Heroes there is. We input a video and record a video around objects and also did the multiview stereo for this object. So the major contribution of this paper is that we propose are bound to stage vandalization framework for fast and accurate depth web version. We are introduced Daisy for multiples there, both for stair matching and photo consistency optimization and the framework of our method is parallel processing friendly and schedule where on the complexity of the problems and the number of machine calls our data set is publicly available on my personal home page and you can download and try your method, so that's it. I think fast and accurate algorithm is TR meaningful and currently there are few research on the application. Application gamut of multiple stereo so. Existing algorithms can be divided into several technical categories, so depth map merging is one of the most typical and extensible categories. Apps so this paper proposes a two stage bundle optimization method. We basically based on 3 rules. The first is the angle between view directions. We constraint in the range of five degree 245 degree and also constrain the distance between the camera optical centers. Remove, remove those pair with. We rectified this still appears to make the corresponding pictures in our skyline for each pixel in a single line of the last image. We found correspondence on the right image based on Daisy features for using a visa credit. Track means are collected matches among steel pairs with pixels come from more than 3 views. So we did a depth first search to find all tracks are for. Starpass Track is obtained attract showed crisp picture in a track should correspond to the same 3 point optimized at the three point position. In a constraint of the point view directions. Plan fitting of the point card or using a grid based search from the point cloud directions so the benefit of this bounded optimization is twofold each. So for typical 32 two mini pixel data set the how much you still took less than 3 minutes.