And then the exhibit exhibit Hall will have lots of food and beverage during the whole day doing all the breaks. So I also like to welcome you to CKD where the security and security, if you are never been here, so it stands for Special ACM Special Interest Group and Knowledge discovery and data mining, which is basically the home of our sort of data science data. So as the Premier community of data science in the world, our mission is really to shape the future of data science research and also to lead in this big data revolution. I'm sure everybody knows as the quantum quantity changes, the quality will change as well. So with that note, I would like to invite you to join the security so you can join in two modes and one is to be a member of CKD, and another line is you start the local chapter where we have quite a few chapters. You also get security explorations and then obviously you join us to shape the future of data science research. OK to start local chapter you can lead and strengthening the local sort of KDD community and also of course you can get some. Long Beach towel and 20 down of University of Technology Sydney and the program chairs will be tossed and jorkins from Cornell University and Jeff Webb for Monash University and I'm sure they will look forward to your help and also to your participation in order in case you're wondering what the fish is doing here. 26 workshops and which is means 75% growth and 11 tutorial an which is 83% growth and this year we also have GNU program. It's called highlight paper spotlights at every morning so every paper get a 30 second opportunity to advertise and then to excite the audience and every paper also have an opportunity to do given our representation. 1036 submissions these are full submissions that receive the full review and from the more than 2600 authors and this represents 42% increase over last year and on this plot you can see that the growth over the year for KDD conference and our acceptance rate and this year is 14.6%, which is slightly lower than last year. Basically we check the role review score and also the normalized score from the PC members and also check the. Bloomberg reception at Pier 60. And basically what's interesting is that in terms of submissions coming from industry or coming from academia, they are getting about the same score, while submissions that have a mixed authorship meaning authors from academia plus industry are actually getting better, better scores or higher review scores, which is kind of great to see. The first one is trying to predict paper acceptance. Assume that random guessing gives you 50% accuracy. We can get to around 65 and basically the text. To see if I give you review text, can you predict from the review text what the reviewer was thinking? And a paper is fast flux distribution for large scale sparse nonlinear classification. For the paper, reducing the sampling capacity of topic models. I would like to welcome Jeeping a for presenting for the first time at a KDD, a test of Time award which he will tell us more about. OK. OK, so this award recognizes the KDD papers published at least 10 years before. And the selection is based on the impact of the paper in the data mining community. So in this year 2014 we had 749 papers. A density based algorithm for discovering clusters in large spatial database with noise. Maximizing the spread over influence through a social network. So without further ado, industry and government track, I would like to invite right ganian Prem Melville on the stage to report how the industry and government track work this year. So there's a heavy emphasis on deployed solutions or papers that have a clear track to deployment. That's that's up by 45% from last year. Our acceptance rate was about 22%. We accepted all the papers that we thought would make a great addition to our program, and I think we have a very exciting program up ahead and write a little bit more. Did this year versus got rejected even though we tend to tell their viewers these keywords were predictive modeling, web production, large scale diploid and the words that came out in the negative side where you know search traffic algorithms. Few days in the industry and government track, we have invited industry and government talks which have been very well selected by Brian an pool. Then they'll talk about that we're going to have accepted paper presentations. We also have a special talk given the theme of data science for social good, we have a special session Tuesday afternoon with we're going to be about 1213 presentations from the data science for social Good Summer Fellowship program that I run at University of Chicago. Program committee members were great, they nice of them, completed reviews on time and we are able to give really high quality feedback which is really. Now we want to take the time to to present the best paper awards for the industry and government track and this year is Claudio mentioned the beginning. Cash transfers to the extremely poor by Brian Kush. This paper is tackles a harder than usual recommendation problem. I would like to involve invite Paul Bradley and Brian Dalessandro to come up here and speak a little bit about the invited talks that we have in store for you. Give Nathan Eagle and Robert Monroe to talk in all of these talks will be in this room. Highlighting how committed Bloomberg is to not just supporting KDD, but to actually fostering a community of data science for social good, particularly with small government organizations. It is indeed the KDD Cup if, as Michael mentioned, the industry track is our distinction of how collaborative we are. This is the 7th 7th annual Doctoral Dissertation Award. And it started to recognize outstanding research contributions by a doctoral candidate in the field of KDD. OK, so first is the relevance to KDD. Then the second one is the originality of the main ideas. So we also have this broader impact for the social good. My sweater does from University of Texas. This says the run up Aditya. 1014 Service An innovation awards? Many contenders in the field, as you know, there are some incredible talent present in our community for the innovation award. With these are our criteria. This there right now professor at University of Washington, and has that tremendous impact that I know several times being here too, for when they received the best paper award and always was an amazing presence in our conference. A welcome for our ACM security chair being Luke from the University of Illinois at Chicago. And I would like to welcome you to this biggest KDD conference and also I would like to take this opportunity to thank the organizers and which is chaired by Claudia And's office and they have done a fantastic job and also they spend so much of the time, the precious time to serve the community and we are very grateful to them and let's give him a big hand blouse. They also add a lot of innovation to the conference. And there's no way we can have a great conference for this KDD.