Things in information theory and which type of problem I'm going to be working on an I'm not going to give a lot of information about communications or information theory, but just enough for you to know exactly what we want to do. You have impact, you have MP threes. OK, and that's the dust. OK, in order to get the maximum likelihood they cover OK. At bit level, the first one is optimal at world level, but the thing that we're going to use the bitwise map solution is still exponential. We will have to have to compute Tour 2 to the power of N elements and we have two to the power of minus. OK. But that is if we ignore the graphic structure. They don't have to be parity checks, so that's what I put in the whole thing for computing this time I need to compute four components and performance sounds. For this one I need to compute 8 components and performance exams. We also recover the partition function. We can get it from the sum of this of these two values OK, and for the other marginals we have to do a little bit more of work. We don't need to sort the variables. OK, all the way one to the end and the channel the channel encoder is going to give each one of these symbols. But in order to make sense of all the machine learning that we're doing, I'm going to be using X during that, and if the message that comes from the source encoder is also binary, we're going to assume that we have. We're going to use. The message passing algorithm and what the notation that I was using before is. OK. And then the variables is going to send to the factors. OK. Guardian has no loops. There are looks, so I still use it. OK, and what I'm going to do is I'm going to add a factor now for each one of them, incorporating the information about why OK. OK, because this is the best way that we can incorporate information about why in each one of them. OK, so the factor the variable is going to send to each factor. OK so X2 is connected to a B and each. And then the factors has to send information to all the bits or all the variables that is close by. So a has to send information to X1. They get the information from the different variables so they get the information for next 2 from X1 and X3. And they also have the factor function. That the variable doesn't know. And M the cardinalities there set M has all the factors that are connected to XN. OK. And they were able to factor in the same thing. So the important thing about the message passing is first thing is we don't need to sort the sums. We can do this message passing without sorting the sums OK and we don't need to know the structure of the whole graph. OK, we yes no that if you had loops it might not work. So M is a row vector of K components and G is a K by N matrix. So the next thing that we need for the in order to get what we want is what we call the dual space of G. OK, and that all spaces and orthogonal. Right, but if we were working with other type of symbols, you need the minus on on top of that. When you go to Olympus E Codes and Turbo codes. So what do we know? It's also called a factor graph and also called bipartite graph.