The summer school started by Enrico Motta, under the Knowledge Web Network of Excellence. It's run coordinated by Barry. Yes, Barry will explain the picture in the coffee break to anyone wants to ask you. You'll have to give a presentation on Saturday morning, but we insist that the slides are emailed. You can also win a prize, so you'll be giving a presentation 10 minute presentation on Saturday morning. What we ask from you for the mini project? There's nothing worse than seeing 10 or 15 versions of the same project on the same variant or some link data technologies put together. Get approval from a tutor. Apart from that you can do pretty much anything you like. The best projects here tend to focus on interesting applications of the technology that we've seen. If you work together, there's also a poster session you see cleverly, I put here at the top is coordinated by Eleanor. So every attendee here will should present a poster which hopefully you brought with you. Yeah, up on the bar. So for each poster you will be assigned two shooters, so those two shooters will come and give you feedback. There will be a prize for the best poster decided by the shooters according to criteria that will create later. We have Enrico in a moment, then Aiden and Barry will be talking about the Semantic Web languages and standards. Then we have Dan and Daniel linked open data then. Listen to Barry talking about the student project kickoff. Wednesday we have Speros, then we have Barry again on building semantic applications, sorry. So why are we here? And then at 1:00 o'clock there's a transfer to SWC. Later, as you became famous, if you get stuck or confused, ask one of the tutors. Iraq Summer School students so Marta Sabou, Magic Win and Tom Heath, who's atalis now so. Semantic web in the Semantic Web research area. So we'll do the non technical knowledge and skills. So communication skills are very important. These are important social skills. So we have the tutorials we have the keynotes, but we have practical hands-on sessions where you get to play with various elements of the technology and then you'll be doing your own work in in your project. So using what you learned in the first half of the week, applying it collaborating and producing something.