[0.0s - 29.0s]
Welcome to. The SWC summer school. It's funny because I've been doing summer schools for a long, long, long time. So it's hard for myself to put myself in the mindset of a student who maybe it is first some school who's at their first ever summer school here. Wow, OK. So. Yeah I I guarantee 90% that is going to be a novel experience for you. It's quite different to being at home in your. Universities or at your companies so. We have a keynote. There is Enrico Franconi will be speaking in a few moments. Just before then I want to give you a flavor for what's going to happen in the week, but the only way for you to understand what's going to happen to you in the week is to just to experience it. So try to. Try to focus on what I'm saying 'cause it will help. Even though you may not understand it all. Right now, if you have any questions at anytime then please feel free to interrupt.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So a little bit of history. There's been a number of summer schools, so the first one was. Insert Sadia in about 2003. The summer school started by Enrico Motta, under the Knowledge Web Network of Excellence. Meanwhile the SWC. Conference started is ESWS. Those have been reverse summer schools. Asian semantic web. Summer schools semantic computing summer schools in Berkeley in the US and then we had our first one here so. These are modeled on the summer schools that we have at the Open University where we have a 220,000 students and we run literally hundreds of summer schools every year, so there's quite a lot of experience in the tutors here in how to run the summer school.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So why are we here? You might be asking yourself so what's the point of getting along fly? I'm taking a trip here.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So. From our point of view, our goal is to is to generate the next semantic web cohort. So. If we look at what's happened to previous people's only if you know there's the IEEE Intelligent Systems Journal, we all know this, and every two years they run AI's top 10 to watch, and at least three of these. Iraq Summer School students so Marta Sabou, Magic Win and Tom Heath, who's atalis now so. Our hope is that some of the people here will one day become one of AI's top 10 to watch with. Based on what we teach you here. Yeah, this is implicit. Advert to join the lab as well, but I thought I'd hidden that quite well so no one would notice if you hadn't pointed it out.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The other thing is it another way of putting it is if we wanted to become very famous computer scientists. Semantic web in the Semantic Web research area. And. Of course, have become a famous person. You need some technical skills and you'll get that from the technical sessions and keynotes. But there are other skills that you need as well. There are non technical knowledge and skills that you need to make it and you'll see these in the people that you know including all of the tutors and the keynotes.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
We have here. So we'll do the non technical knowledge and skills. So given you're going to spend most of the week learning all the technical stuff in 10 minutes, I'll give you an overview of the non technical stuff. It's somehow implicit in the summer school, in the activities that we do so that the way we structured the summer school is to bring out these non technical elements. But I make an explicit.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So communication skills are very important. Ability to stand up as well, so being able to present you be presenting at conferences at workshops. Communication in meetings. Talking to your supervisor, managing your supervisor. It's all important, so you will be doing presentations on the Saturday. At the end of a mini project, which I'll describe later. Collaboration skills collaboration skills are really, really, really important as one thing I learned in my first few years. The other thing I learned when I started hiring people is not everybody has them implicitly, and some people are harder to collaborate with than others so. For this, again in the project you'll be working in groups of four and will be insisting that you collaborate with each other rather than compete. Within Europe at least, most of the funding is for collaborative projects, and sometimes you'll have as many as 20 plus partners. Each partner has four people have about 100 people trying to collaborate within a certain goal. Also, within W 3C we have the standardization groups with many, many partners with different points of view, different goals and interests, and learning to collaborate is important for the most part, scientists who can't collaborate don't become famous. There are some exceptions. There are some exceptions, but for the most part. Leadership skills. One day you'll be leading your own team managing your own people. Leading a project leading a WCC group. These are important social skills. So this is the soft side being able to talk to people at dinner. Maybe a breakfast at lunch going out in the evening again, if you're in a group of people working on a common project for a number of years, if you don't have any social skills, it's not so easy to get on, believe me. And something that I have sunny disposition. This which means that if the person that you're working with is always in a bad mood and is always frowning, it makes it a bit difficult. So for example, when I tend to hire staff, I'd like to hire people that smile once in awhile. Yeah, 'cause if I'm going to spend time on the plane or in a car for a few hours, nothing, you don't want to be that grumpy person is just in a foul mood all the time because you asked him to do one small task. So so pretty straight to smile during the week when you here in Crete is not so hard. You can't smile here then you're in big trouble.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So how are we going to eat?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
See this. So again, based on the 40 years of experience at the Open University, all the summer schools that we've been doing. It's quite easy to know a few 100 years of psychological research. People learn by doing. Far better than you learn by listening. So we have the tutorials we have the keynotes, but we have practical hands-on sessions where you get to play with various elements of the technology and then you'll be doing your own work in in your project. In the latter half of the week. So using what you learned in the first half of the week, applying it collaborating and producing something. Both within the sessions here where you can ask questions and informally over lunch or dinner or later an in the poster session which I described later, you will be interacting with the tutors and the keynotes while they're around. To facilitate those skills, and then, as I mentioned, there are the invited talks. So you get to hang out with.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Famous people. So here are the shooters. We have Aiden. Hi there, is this Aiden? Dan brickley Danny OK. Elena. Back Barry Anne Matthew will be arriving tomorrow evening. Feel free to talk to these people pretty much anytime. Yeah, they're here to help you. With anything, any problem that you may have with your work or your life, feel free to go and see them. And I.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
All sorted out. We have the keynotes. We have Enrico will be speaking as soon as I shut up. I'll be giving a keynote tomorrow. Speros who's arriving later from IBM Research. Chris welty is arriving later in the week with Marco and Laura, so each morning there will be 1 keynote and on Friday I think it is. There will be 2. And again, feel free to the keynotes. The tutors will be here for the whole week. Obviously the keynotes are here for a few days at a time, somewhat overlapping. But again, I think most of Keynote will be happy to talk to the students, maybe, but not with your life problems. But at least you'll work issues over their research. Well, you see that I'm Aquino, so otherwise I would. Yeah it's to tutors. Go to the tutors so I've yet to make that category.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So there are many project, let me say something about the mini project that you do toward the end of the week. It's run coordinated by Barry. One day I was going to change this picture, but I went out of time so I'll change it next year. Yeah, the second year I showed this picture. But I promise next year I'll change it, Barry. Rocky. Yes, Barry will explain the picture in the coffee break to anyone wants to ask you. Be working in collaboratively in groups of four or five. Which you select. Um? Yeah, it's a key component of our method of teaching that you learn by doing so knowledge isn't really knowledge until you can apply it to solve a problem, so you'll be solving a problem in your project. Key objectives you choose a particular issue that excited you during the first half of the week. Experience, collaboration, collaborative work on the time. Pressure is a key component that. There's nothing to make group of people stressed is to have it. Then having a deadline, especially if you don't agree on what the goal is at the beginning and somehow the mini project stimulates this. We run a pretty strict deadline last year there will be. You'll have to give a presentation on Saturday morning, but we insist that the slides are emailed. To an address that will give or will give it on the stick were given on the memory. Stick to Barry by a certain deadline, which will announce, but it will be Friday evening. OK also. It's an opportunity to have fun, so most of the time the groups do enjoy their projects. They're quite enthusiastic, so you can ask Maribel who was here last year you enjoyed your project and you yes. You can also win a prize, so you'll be giving a presentation 10 minute presentation on Saturday morning. And will be giving a selection of prizes for certain criteria which haven't been decided yet, but will decide during the rest of the week.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
What we ask from you for the mini project? Be creative. There's nothing worse than seeing 10 or 15 versions of the same project on the same variant or some link data technologies put together. Focus on the idea generation functional design. Although you can do some implementation. Get approval from a tutor. So each project will have a. Each group will have a tutor assigned to them. And your tutor must agree to the project you do. One of those things, OK? Apart from that you can do pretty much anything you like. Collaborate with your team members, yeah? Again, will be taking points off. We won't be given prizes to groups that don't work together if there are four individual items, that's not really a group work. The best projects here tend to focus on interesting applications of the technology that we've seen.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
In our experience. These are just a subset of the publications I know they've come out from previous mini projects, so from I SWC SWC. Posters and full papers. So you can get quite a lot done.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
If you work together, there's also a poster session you see cleverly, I put here at the top is coordinated by Eleanor. So every attendee here will should present a poster which hopefully you brought with you. There was an email that went out, typically on your PhD topic, so the poster sessions are 8:00 o'clock tonight and 8:00 o'clock tomorrow. To find out if you're tonight or tomorrow, there's a list going up on the bar, yeah? Yeah, up on the bar. OK. So for each poster you will be assigned two shooters, so those two shooters will come and give you feedback. The other thing is, it's. Gives a chance for you to get to know each other as well. So the half that aren't presenting posters can go and see the posters and it will help you in selecting your. The other members for your group. There will be a prize for the best poster decided by the shooters according to criteria that will create later. And we've had the previous posters have been published later. So as well. So from the feedback from the tutors, students enhance their posters and submitted it and the work just published. Set things straight. Build. We will build the teams wow. Really OK. Based on some criteria that Eleanor will decide in. OK.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So here's the timetable. Just go through it quickly, so. We have Enrico in a moment, then Aiden and Barry will be talking about the Semantic Web languages and standards. Then there will be a hands-on. Barry says he may mix it so the rest of today. Until 5:00 o'clock is Aidan Barry? On the and semantic, applying this damage is in large scale semantic data management, probably with some auto text input into that. Given the battery works on text and then tonight this evening we have the poster and opening reception and will be providing a buffet dinner at the same time. I'm looking for confirmation, yeah, good.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Tomorrow. Yeah, just quick, but very quickly very quickly. There's me. Then we have Dan and Daniel linked open data then. This is one of the most important talks. Listen to Barry talking about the student project kickoff. So he will be guy. It will give more details on how to actually work on the projects. Then we have Eleanor and another poster.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Wednesday we have Speros, then we have Barry again on building semantic applications, sorry. Yeah guy again yeah and then Matthew. And then we have an excursion. Yeah we have an excursion plan. There will be more details on that later in the week. OK, sign up with this. Probably going to be a walk. And and a dinner I don't.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Location. Then from Thursday onwards we just have the keynotes and then the rest of the time you're working on your project. So. So what will happen is you'll be working around here or other places, and then you'll be going to see your tutors if you have any issues. But mainly you'll be working on your own.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
For this and collaborating then on Friday we have Chris and Marco. You finish your. Project work and give the slides to Barry before you go to dinner and the party. One thing I should again from experience. When you go to the party, so usually in England we had this designated driver, so the person who doesn't drink when you when you go out partying, you may want to have a designated speaker in the morning for the presentation. Yeah, it's quite or you should at least know if you're going to speak or not and you go to.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Party. So on Saturday morning we won't be doing any speaking really. It will be you. So each group will come up in turn, gives the presentations. Then the judges will deliberate and give prizes. And then at 1:00 o'clock there's a transfer to SWC. Ki think no questions on that.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
OK, so finally.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Trying to have fun, yeah. If you're not having fun, then you somehow missing the point. So good measure of the success of the summer school is how much you enjoy it.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And we know again that having fun is important to learn. There's the excursion I mentioned party and disco, and you're free to self organize other events that you want.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Soft skills are important. The actual results I mentioned that there are publications at the end, but the most important thing is that you understand the process that you went through. Through learning this so that you can repeat it. Later, as you became famous, if you get stuck or confused, ask one of the tutors. All myself.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And have fun. OK, so for those listening. This is the wireless, and the password is the SWC to a 12. This is the hashtag I recommend that you use the SWC SS2O12.
