They, the conditionally independent voice model. Good students. If I have my my pitch spelling task well, I can think of pitch. Of course, to fix a parameter value. If I if I say, fix some node in the trellis here, I'll just point to one fix this node right here, and I consider a path that goes to that node, say this one that runs along the top well, what that path does is as I go through all the arcs on that path. There's an app find function that I see for each of my parameter Theta. So that's what I've written out here. No loss for just kicking that one in the trash and just retaining the purple ones here. When I look at one of these Maxima of affine functions, I get it sort of like this bowl shape with all these different facets on it. So how does the dynamic programming algorithm work? You'll see more specifically in a minute, but it's a Markov chain. And the Markov change chains for each voice are conditionally independent given some global structure and hear what this is going to be as a functional harmonic analysis of the music measure by measure. Well, the ragatz of the music, the notes in the rhythms, so my collection of voices are now Markov chains of notes and rhythm that evolve independently, conditionally, independently from one another given something shared, which I've called rather vaguely hear my overall musical plan. I call this the vertical notion I had to spell notes according to the ambient key. These are my states with the notion that, well, OK, I'll have lots of interesting transition structure, but maybe most importantly is incorporating this notion of motion. It just makes this hash of lines, so I didn't draw it. What I'm interested in doing is finding the most likely configuration of all the hidden variables, because I'm interested in doing pitch spelling. So the idea I dropped all the observable variables here. For instance, this case came up a lot with German augmented 6th chords. I think in making my case upon training the model with Baum Welch, what happened is actually we got worse results both on training and test.