And then the main part of my presentation will be covered by the second and third part of my presentation, where will describe the topic of relational model TRM. We also take here the direction of the relationship into account, so it's relevant whether the relationship is going from T122 or vice versa. One was taken from the PLP or the conference and paper information, and we use, for example, the abstract as representative for textual data. In that context, second domain was taken from DB Pedia, where we selected a subset of the movie domain describing some movie information and they are when you look into the details what is taken as attribute values is then treated as textual data in that context. One is link prediction, the other one is object clustering. In that context, becausw for predicting the true negative rate. You have seen a 2 application scenarios link prediction object clustering. We also work on other application scenarios for like for example when you're think of hybrid sparkle queries, you post with these RDF data. For really coming up with the results, we have to somehow estimate what are the most probable connection between entities given the specific keywords for the query. But with the introduction, that might be rather brief, and for that audience here that we have a lot of RDF data around that combines structural aspects like having entities being related to other entities being classified as belonging to some kind of class, but also being described in addition with attributes that provide textual information. So we have these semi structured data around when you consider classical topic models. They are typically defined as distribution over words, so they just take the text part into account, but do not really consider the understructure part there. The name of the company is also did you hear that extra information providing some information about the Audi company? So we see the more classical topic models that are based on word Co occurrence and can for example be used for clustering modulable documents. I already mentioned approaches that are related to homogeneous networks where you handle for example of social networks based on the friendship relationships. Here we also have some approaches that addressing the structural issues, how to correlate structure on the one hand, with topics, on the other hand, but for example, that TMP approach is not really addressing that sparsity issue. So let's now come to the second part topical relational models. So what is the characteristic we have around where we want to learn a model that is able to capture the correlations between the classes, relations and text that are inherent in these RDF data? And to see but which classes they are highly correlated in our example, maybe Mr. Glass company? On the one hand and the topics on the other hand.