If something's in a subclass, it's necessarily in the superclass. It doesn't mean that you have a set of individuals at each level, whereas you go up the hierarchy you. If you have two different ontologies is just to look at the classes and properties and workout which ones are equivalent and which ones imply other ones, so they're not directly equivalent equivalent, but one includes the other. Everything in the semantic web world. What I mean is, if you remember what I was saying earlier about sources of evidence and wanting people to encode when knowledge came from. The subject to the object of the relationship. OK, a triple is absolutely fundamental. A core part of a statement is a triple. 'cause we use UUID's in Musicbrainz but just resolve it. Will explain to you what name means in terms of the other classes and relationships that it has. But the object is not something to look up. We make statements about I we make triples, whose subject is an identified thing that can be agreed on. OK, because I can use the same you are, I as a subject in a triple as someone else does. If two of us make a statement about the same resource, it's two arrows going out of the same node in the graph. So here is 1 example given the the two statements before both of them have the same subject which was this Musicbrainz your eye for The Beatles. OK, it can also be a blank node. So when do we need what? When do we need blank nodes or when do we need an identifier? Could use a semicolon, but even more we're still talking about The Beatles and we're still seeing what they're the same as, so the same subject and predicate. With the text, the British were an English rock band, blah blah blah blah blah, and say that it's English. Yeah, they they should be an overlapping site because to a very large degree. The expectation. Therefore you must have meant certain things that are implied. Oh we'll see about the subclasses. Two things that definitely are in RDF schema because they're not implicit to your use of RDF. OK, under inference, that means that if you relate something in a given property. We did subclass of we did. Bob is Alice is husband and has husband. There are some cool parts that are reused from that, like the Internet protocol used to identify machines DNS on top of it to identify to allow. Now if we identify real things, not just documents an if we use the links between them to talk about relationships then what we build is a web of data where we can pull information from various sources that doesn't need so much human cognition to understand what we're bringing together. To some degree, it's about allowing the machine to pull in the things that you're interested in. And our original aim die was to take the music. Was our other rendering platform that's used there for web pages? Maybe about individuals as well, so the individual resources if you gotta.