Proceed the procedure of graph embedding by means of prototype selection and graph edit distance. Only then we expressed the dot product with sums and finally we see that the Euclidean distance of two graph Maps in the resulting vector space is equal to the sum of squared differences between the edit distances of both graphs to all the prototypes. So it is most likely since they are very similar, they will have very similar edit distance to this prototype, and that's the difference will be small and so also the squared difference will be small and the square difference is equal to the Euclidean distance in the resulting vector space so. So the difference will be large and also the squared difference will be large, which corresponds exactly to the Euclidean distance in the resulting vector space. So I think as we have seen now, our method depends partly on an appropriate choice of the prototype set P. So we have to select a prototype set that leads to a good performance of the resulting classifier in the vector space. So here in this work we propose five different prototype selection methods. First is a random prototype selected as. The name says, it selects randomly and prototypes from the graphs. It's G and of course this provides no the terministic graph embedding. We've implemented with this centers prototype selector. For this prototype select reused median of a graph set and the median of graph set is the graph whose sum of distances to all other graphs in this set is minimal. So we're trying to minimizing this some here. So the main contribution of this talk here, this work here is that we want to bridge the gap between the domain of graph based and feature based object representation. The maximum distance from the center graph to the border graph into N -- 1 partitions with equal interval size. And then we select the N -- 2 graphs that are located the nearest to those interval borders in terms of edit distance of course and we see OK, this will distribute the graphs more or less uniformly over there said. In the next prototype selected, which is the spanning prototype selector, we. We look for all the already selected prototypes, so the first prototype select selector select it is the set median graph of G and then each additional prototype selected out of this graph set is the graph the furthest away from the already selected prototypes. And the last prototype selector is the case centers prototype selector which tries to select the graphs that are in a center of densely populated areas in the in the graph set. So what we're basically doing is we apply K medians clustering on the graph set and we said K equal to the number of prototypes that we want. And this method of course enables the access to a wide range of pattern recognition procedures based on feature vectors applicable to graphs. So the intention of the now following experiments is that we want to show that certain classification tasks can be better solved with methods that use the resulting vectorial descriptions rather than the original graph representation. So first of all we use a KNN classifier. OK, here's the experimental setup in each of our experiments we make use of three disjoint graph sets, a training set, validation set and test set. So the validation set is used to determine optimal meta parameters for graph embedding and classification. This is the K for the KNN classifier. OK, I think you know this data set already selected data set which consists of graphs representing capital letter line drawings out of 15 classes. So let's start with a brief introduction into graph edit distance graph it distance basically defines the dissimilarity between two graphs by the minimum amount of distortion that is needed to transform one graph into another. So then sequence of such edit Operation Edit Operations which transforms a graph into another is called Edit Path. Which consists of graphs representing molecules out of two classes. So what I've not mentioned so far discussed is which prototype selector and which dimensionality we have used for for these datasets, and we have to say that the prototype selector and also the number of prototypes depends hardly on the data set. It depends on which distortion level you you apply. It was also the target Sphere prototype selected class wise with 300 prototypes on the molecule data set. It was the spanning prototype selector with 150 prototypes. In this work here, we propose a very flexible method for mapping graphs explicitly into an N dimensional vector space. To descend, we have to select first and prototypes and then compute the graph edit distance from an input graph to all of these prototypes and these end distances can be interpreted as a real vector. This is the key idea, so we viewed the similarities to end prototypes as a vectorial, vectorial description of the graph. So we can say that in contrast with various other graph kernels, our method is applicable to any type of graph, and this is because we use graph edit distance and this allows us this high flexibility in our definition. So this is more powerful because we can apply it to classifiers which cannot be kernelized. That is graph edit distance allows allows us to handle any label alphabet so the labels can be out of a set of integers. But the major drawback of graphs is that the domain of graphs contains almost no mathematical structure. So all the basic mathematic operations like computing sums or in product or means are not defined in a standardized way. So although the graph edit Distance provides us with a very general dissimilarity measure directly applicable in the domain of graphs, this is still not sufficient for most of the standard pattern recognition algorithms. Colonel so as I said before, our approach will benefit from both the high representational power of graphs, but also the large amount of algorithms for classification in vector spaces. So the key idea is that we want to map our graphs embeddable graphs. Then we have to select a prototype set P and then the mapping from the domain of graphs to a real vector spaces defined by this function Phi here. So again, the graph embedding is a mapping from the domain of graphs into a real vector space where the individual dimensions of directed space represents the distances of this input graph to the prototypes.