Americans tells the other nine how to vote, where to eat and what to buy. So this model is actually fairly well calibrated on the X axis. The average values in our in our models predictions are very close to the average values of the actual influence. The high influencers, the influencers that you might be interested in. And then we also had them classify on the type of URL some general category. Interesting, this is much more correlated so that the more interesting they rated it, the larger the cascade. It's a bit noisier because we have a much smaller data size of course, but even with content the fit was not really any better. We think that this is because these represent necessary but not sufficient cascade conditions, so seeds of large cascades share certain features, but a lot of the small cascades also share those features and therefore it makes success and influence actually very hard to predict the individual level. Sing we said, OK, you know we we know that from our model some influencers are more influential than others. So we assume this very simple cost function. And so the question that we're trying to address here is, given, you know, given this kind of cost function, should you target a small number of highly influential seeds? We're just going to have a baseline of assuming that the per follower cost is appending OK, this amounts to the equivalent of paying about $10,000 per tweet for user that has a million followers, right? So for every person that you want to tweet your thing, you have to pay them $1000. Of course, Twitter is a special case. I hope then you hit some of these influential people that actually pass it on. So in Twitter there is this well defined, fully observable network of individuals who explicitly opt in to follow each other. So it's really designed for this dissemination of information, where people are really choosing who to listen to and what information to pass on. And then we look at every follower who subsequently posts that same URL. And then we count all of the nodes that are in this Ann and give this the end. We're not looking at the followers of the people that tweeted or retweeted, right? Retweeted it OK, so for our data we crawled the Twitter follower graph we ended up with 56 million unique Twitter users, 1.7 billion edges. In general, nothing goes viral. Tend to be related to larger cascades, however these are not sufficient conditions for for large cascades. In other words, these are not things that are going to make your URL go viral right, and this is again because nothing goes viral. On average, each seed posts 46.3 URLs across our entire data set. I don't know 8 dimensional feature space of the users. It partitions it with a piecewise constant function and uses the training data to determine where to split the data and one of the advantages is that it's nonlinear. It's nonparametric and so therefore the model is actually better calibrated then say linear regression. We estimated the model on the training data and then evaluate it on the test data. And so therefore every user gets included in at least one.