[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK so I have the distinct pleasure of coming after two award winning papers and before lunch so hopefully will enjoy this talk. As Eitan said, this is work with Anton Bakshi who is interning at Yahoo. When we did this and Jake Hoffman and Duncan Watts. So, and incidentally, the topic the title of this has changed about five times, and this is what we decided on in the end, ordinary influencer.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Is on Twitter the question that we're looking at is something that's obviously been a hot topic, especially with respect to Twitter. You know, there's this idea that out there that there are these influential's who are very important in spreading word of mouth, viral things and and this is especially picked up in Word of mouth marketing. There's a lot of marketers who are very interested in the idea of word of mouth marketing and in fact, research on this dates back all the way to the 1950s sociologists. Initially we're really focused on the media to the masses, an that connection and that form of dissemination of information and so forth. But then in the 1950s they came around and they said, oh, wait, you know people are really influencing each other and that's the most important thing, and so they decided that you know they realized that not all people are equally influential and you have these opinion leaders who get their information so the media goes to the. The opinion leaders and then and then it's the opinion. Leaders that actually dictate to the people that listen to them how they should interpret the information from the media. And so this is what's known as the influentials hypothesis. And and I emphasize this because there's a lot of different interpretations of what influential means and what an influencer is. For instance, you could say that a celebrity is influential, but then it becomes questionable. Are they actually media themselves or are they getting information with the median passing it on? And sometimes that's not clear. This hypothesis has, you know, relatively recently, been. You know, the title of this book is one in ten. Americans tells the other nine how to vote, where to eat and what to buy. And so you know you can take that.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
The greater salt, if you will. So we decided conveniently enough that Twitter is actually really good for studying this for the following reason. So in Twitter there is this well defined, fully observable network of individuals who explicitly opt in to follow each other. So it's really designed for this dissemination of information, where people are really choosing who to listen to and what information to pass on. And similarly, because it's this sort of ecosystem, the Twitter users are actually intentionally motivated to try to make themselves heard. They're not just interested in consuming information they are interested in producing it and passing it on. Another advantage of it is that within the Twitter ecosystem, you actually have all kinds of different individuals. You have organizations you have celebrities, you have very public like Obama or semi public figures like maybe your local state representative. And finally, the final thing that we thought was advantageous about using Twitter is that they include URLs and URLs are very convenient for studying information diffusion because their unique we can see when they originate from multiple sources and they can be tracked through the follower graph. So we actually can observe the information diffusion. So. We were interested in essentially identifying who's got the most influence, and so of course, in order to do that, we need to define exactly what we mean by influence, and So what we're talking about here is cascade size, and this corresponds to the.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The. The influence cascades that Yuri was talking about. So what we do is we take any individual that is the first tweet URL in their local network. So nobody that they're following tweets that URL before them. And then we look at every follower who subsequently posts that same URL. Whether or not there explicitly retweeting so they don't actually have to use the formal Twitter function for retweeting. They don't actually have to write Artie. We just say if you post the URL after somebody that you were following. Then you are passing that information along. And of course this you know there's caveats there, but I think in general that's a it's a reasonable assumption to make. And so then we do this for the not just the followers of the scene, but the followers of the followers etc etc. And then we count all of the nodes that are in this Ann and give this the end. So that equals the size of the cascade and that is the influence score. Of course you run into issues when you have somebody that who has multiple sources, multiple potential sources, sources of information and how do you sort of divide up the influence and so you know 11 technique that you can. Use, which is actually the one that we did. Is just say OK, the first person to have tweeted the URL is going to be the source, and all subsequent people that we did it. We're just going to ignore and so you can imagine that these two nodes on the bottom retweeted the URL tweeted by these two at the top and then these are the seeds and so this seed over here would have a score of three, one for themselves and two for the followers that retweeted it, and this one would just have one for its own score. Another thing that you could do is maybe it's actually the most recent person to have tweeted it. So this person actually was tweeted at most recently. This person consumed the content most recently from this person, and so each of these essentially you have these two cascades here. They get a sum of two. You could also imagine just splitting it evenly amongst all of the people that we did it or having some decaying function. We actually looked at these three, all three and our results are similar across all of them, but the one that I'm going to be presenting is first. So in other words, the first person to tweet it, we're going to consider to be the source of influence. And of course all of this score in terms of how the how the influence is calculated filters up to the seed, so the number of people within the tree is, the score is the influence score. And so you know another issue is that what we're looking at is the people that retweeted. We're not looking at the followers of the people that tweeted or retweeted, right? So this is a really actually conservative measure of influence in that we don't. Actually, we don't know that somebody has seen the URL and less they retweet it, and so we're just saying we're only going to count it as having been seen if the person explicit.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Retweeted it OK, so for our data we crawled the Twitter follower graph we ended up with 56 million unique Twitter users, 1.7 billion edges. We were fortunate enough to have the fire hose so we actually had the stream of all tweets so we didn't have to worry bout this incompleteness problem that you re just solved and we did this between the time period of September 15th, 2009 to November 15th, 2009. There's actually two days in the middle that were missing because. I think it was Michael Jackson that died on October 15th or something like that. And essentially Twitter went down and so did the firehose. Within that time that we had, we had about 1 billion tweets and we actually use the fact that we have essentially two time periods in our analysis in order to sort of limit our our analysis. Our data size. We focused on the Bitly URLs. These are convenient because they fit within the within. The 140 characters almost always so you don't end up with truncated URLs. We also were intending on using the clickthrough data, but ended up that was too noisy. We didn't have a lot of confidence in it, so in the very end we ended up with 87 million tweets that contained Bitly URLs. 1.6 million seed users. So these are users that treated URL for the first time without any of their anybody that they were following, having tweeted at 1st, and this amounts to 74 million cascades, 74 million diffusion events.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, so these are the take home points. This is the one slide that from this talk that you have to remember. If this is the only you only remember 1 slide, this is it. In general, nothing goes viral. OK, this is this is in the same way that nobody wins the lottery. You can obviously find clear counterexamples of people that have won the lottery, but if you actually take the expected probability of winning the lottery, you can safely say that nobody wins the lottery. Same thing here, nothing goes viral. We do find that there are attributes of both the seed user and the content of the URL that are related to larger cascades. So for instance, users that have a large number of followers or in the past have managed to have large cascades tend to have larger cascades in the future. Similarly, URLs that are rated as interesting or positive. Tend to be related to larger cascades, however these are not sufficient conditions for for large cascades. In other words, these are not things that are going to make your URL go viral right, and this is again because nothing goes viral. However, depending on the cost function of targeting users, and of course this, this last point is sort of directed towards the marketers that are trying to get the word of mouth and trying to get their URL spread on Twitter. Depending on the cost function, it might be the best strategy to cast a wide net and I'll actually talk more specifically about all of.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
He's right now, so the Cascades that we looked at. As I said we had 1.6 million distinct seed users that posted the URL for the first time. On average, each seed posts 46.3 URLs across our entire data set. This was 74 million cascades total. Average cascade size was one point 1 four OK, so in other words, and the median was one, which means that the median outcome is that one person tweeted the URL and nobody retweeted it. And this means that the average influence score is as we talked about, is .1 four. So these are just some example cascades that have some of the features that you was talking.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
As I said, most treats don't spread, so here this is the size of the cascade on the X axis and the count on the Y. You see that you know here is essentially one, so the person tweets it and nobody else retweets it. And that's let's see maybe 8 orders of magnitude than ones that appear more than 1000 times, right? So so where the size of the cascade is more than 1000 users having retweeted it. Similarly, the depth of the Cascade follows the same general pattern where very large, very deep cascades are extremely rare relative to the ones that go absolutely nowhere.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So what we were interested in and kind of the original problem, the way that we framed the original problem is we wanted to be able to see if we could predict influence from the seed user. So what we did is we looked at characteristics of the seed users, including the number of followers, the number of friends, the number of reciprocated ties, how many tweets they had in the past, when they joined their age, and their past influence score. So we actually split the data set in half. We looked at the ones that happened. Before Twitter went down and the ones that happen after Twitter went down calculated the influence score in the first half and then tried to predict their influence in the second half. We did this using a regression tree because of course the distribution of. As I said, the distribution of sizes was very skewed, heavy tailed and so using a regression tree was convenient. It essentially in case you don't know, it partitions up the feature space, so are. I don't know 8 dimensional feature space of the users. It partitions it with a piecewise constant function and uses the training data to determine where to split the data and one of the advantages is that it's nonlinear. It's nonparametric and so therefore the model is actually better calibrated then say linear regression. We used five fold cross validation on each fold. We estimated the model on the training data and then evaluate it on the test data. And so therefore every user gets included in at least one.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Set. This is what the outcome of the regression tree looks like. This is our pruned version. You probably can't read this, so I will tell you the first split is the past influence. Then number of followers number of followers, past influence and in fact the only features that you see here. Our number of followers and past influence. We thought this was kind of surprising. We thought that at least the number of tweets or the number of people that they were following would actually matter. But it turns out that I mean because the number of tweets. Is an indicator of maybe how active they are, and therefore maybe how many times that they would post URLs and so forth. But it turns out that the only things that mattered in the model was the past influence and the number of followers.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So this model is actually fairly well calibrated on the X axis. Here I'm showing the predicted influence from the model and on the Y axis is the actual influence of the individuals each. Each of these lines represents one of the one of the leaves in one of the five folds in our cross validation. So for instance, these are probably are five leaves for. Are five of the folds one of the leaves for each of the five folds the size of the dot represents how many users fit into that leaf, and so that is obvious here in that the large dots are around where there's no influence, right? So most people have no influence and this is very well calibrated, right? The average values in our in our models predictions are very close to the average values of the actual influence. However, the variation is huge and therefore the fit is pretty poor, right? And this is because. You know, as I was saying, even when you take somebody that has a high local influence or a high past influence or high number of followers. And you still have a lot of variability in terms of how much actual influence they have.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And going forward, so this is this is plotting the local the amount of past influence in the number of followers, the two features that we found important, the size of the dot. Is there actual influence, so this is predicted, and so this this right here is just an expansion of this corner of the plot. The high influencers, the influencers that you might be interested in. And you see, there's NPR news here. Obama, I think oh there's Obama, and that's Orbitz. You know, so the users that you see here, or maybe people that you would expect there are people that get retweeted a lot that have a lot of followers, you know. Not too surprising.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
We also looked at content and in order to look at content what we did is we took a small sample and had Mechanical Turkers classify the URLs on a number of dimensions. So we asked them first is it spam or not? Spam, it turns out that about 800 of the URLs of the Thousand URLs that we sampled were were not spam and so we only looked at those. And then we also had them classify on the type of URL some general category. How interesting they thought the URL and. How positive or how happy the URL made them feel OK? So what you see here is this is the cascade size. The average cascade size for the URLs in this category. So lifestyle URLs tended to have the largest cascades. Sports URLs actually tended to have the smallest cascades. We think that's because a lot of the sports are local phenomenon and the Twitter graph is very nonlocal. You know gaming is has a lot of variability and is somewhere in the middle. Similarly, URLs that are social networking or media sharing, like YouTube tended to have the largest cascades and news tended to have the smaller tended to have smaller cascades. And again, we think this is probably because news is very event related, topical, and so you know it requires some time to spread, and by the time it's reached you know any kind of large size. It's no longer relevant.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So looking at the Turkers ratings, there's a general trend here for, you know if the if the URL give somebody make somebody feel really positive, tends to be associated with larger cascade. Interesting, this is much more correlated so that the more interesting they rated it, the larger the cascade. And so this actually corresponds with other work. There's this paper by Jonah Berger and Katie Milchman that looked at the most emailed articles on New York Times. And they found that all inspiring, and I think our inspiring was the most productive one of being on the most email. So they had all of these articles rated and so what's great is that is that we're kind of finding evidence that confirms prior work that shows. Yes, there are features of the URLs that actually makes them more likely to spread. But again, the problem is, is that then actually trying to predict which articles will spread even based on these features is not going to be very successful.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So we redid the regression tree model, including content. So the ratings of the and classifications of the Mechanical Turkers. And redid the model. It's a bit noisier because we have a much smaller data size of course, but even with content the fit was not really any better. OK, so yet again, our ability to predict the size of the cascade based on these features is pretty poor.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
We think that this is because these represent necessary but not sufficient cascade conditions, so seeds of large cascades share certain features, but a lot of the small cascades also share those features and therefore it makes success and influence actually very hard to predict the individual level. And this is something that's actually a very common problem for rare events. So when you're trying to predict plane crashes in that sort of thing, it's very hard because it's very rare. And so the problem that the warning that we're giving out here and one of the take home messages of this paper is, you know, you see something that claims to say, oh look, we found that X variable makes it more likely that people are going to share it and then reaches the conclusion that this means that it's going to go viral, or that it's going to have to be very influential. Be sceptical, right? Most likely there finding some feature that's going to increase the probability from .0001. 2.0002 So if you want that kind of increase in, maybe you do great, but otherwise it might be hard, and so we considered an alternative solution so you know it's possible that marketers can don't have to just find the single individual that is going to make their product go or URL go viral. They can actually target a lot of people at the same time and harness these average effects so you know, in the previous model you saw that are on average the predictions were very good. So if you can actually harness the average. Prediction and target. Everybody say within you know this bin right then the actual influence that you get from targeting that group of people is going to be better than just trying to target. You know five people within that group. So what we did is we looked at the cost effectiveness of various targeting strategies and we did this with a particular cost model. Essential.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Sing we said, OK, you know we we know that from our model some influencers are more influential than others. You know the celebrities with lots of followers. The people that have a lot of past influence. But it's possible that there's different costs based on you know, celebrities getting the celebrity to tweet your URL might be more expensive than getting Joe Schmo to tweet your URL. So we assume this very simple cost function. Essentially, the cost of targeting individual I. Is going to be some acquisition cost plus some per follower cost. OK times the number of followers that that individual has? And then we say, and then for simplicity, we say that the acquisition cost is actually going to be some some function of the cost of the followers. This is just so that we have a single parameter Alpha that allows you to. You can look at when you very Alpha how that affects the cost of targeting different individuals. And so the question that we're trying to address here is, given, you know, given this kind of cost function, should you target a small number of highly influential seeds? So should you go for, you know, the Barack Obama's and the you know really influential people? Or should you try to target a large number of less influential seeds? And what will give you the most bang for the?

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Talk OK, and so we're going to start. We're just going to have a baseline of assuming that the per follower cost is appending OK, this amounts to the equivalent of paying about $10,000 per tweet for user that has a million followers, right? So maybe that's a reasonable cost, something that actually appeared in the news once, which is why we used it. And So what we see is that, OK, so if the cost of acquiring an individual, be it, you know, being a celebrity or beaten ordinary individual is $1000. So for every person that you want to tweet your thing, you have to pay them $1000. OK in that case, then you want to target the highly influential users. So that's this line right here. So this is again, this is the mean predicted influence. So you're looking at targeting users that have very low predicted influence or targeting users that have very high predicted influence. And then on the Y axis, what we're saying is take the actual influence that you're going to get from targeting those people and divide it by the cost of targeting those people. OK, so this is sort of your ROI if you will. And so when you when the cost of acquisition is very, very high, then it's worthwhile to target the the very predicted, influential people because you're targeting so many of the low influence people in order to you know to achieve the equivalent equivalent amount that. Your cost, your acquisition cost is going to be huge, and then it becomes not worth it. However, for anything less than or equal to $100, you know in terms of acquiring somebody getting somebody to tweet. Your URL, the most efficient choice is actually to target these low influence users and so if you imagine say you know it costs $0.10 to get somebody to tweet your URL, and if you had, you know Mechanical Turk, then you know that's actually a reasonable cost. You could actually get a much larger, maybe an order of magnitude nearly larger. Bang for your Buck, or larger ROI by targeting this large mass of low influence, low predicted influence users then targeting the small group of predicted high influence users.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So. Of course, Twitter is a special case. You know, a lot of marketers are interested not in getting things to spread on Twitter, although that's becoming more interesting to them. But it's they're interested in actually, you know, going to parties and getting people to talk to their friends at parties and in the bar and so forth. And so you know it's possible. Or maybe you want to look at blogs, or instead of microblogs, and so you know it. Does these other venues do deserve study. However, we think that the kind of main result, the fact that nothing really tends to go viral, is probably. A general conclusion. Social epidemics tend to be pretty rare things going viral. If you look at the number of YouTube that have over some X number of views, it follows some heavy tailed distribution an so therefore just because they're so rare it sort of makes sense to do a big seed approach where you actually target a lots of people and this goes back to kind of the way that people do it now, which is mass media, television, newspapers getting a just wide swath and trying to hit as many people as you can. I hope then you hit some of these influential people that actually pass it on. So for marketers, the ordinary influencers seem unexciting because it's not like, oh, I'm going to get the like 10 people that are really going to kick start and make everything you know, huge ROI. Well, it actually turns out that targeting large groups of these non influential people might actually be the best ROI that you can get. Of course, depending on the cost function.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So thank you and I'll take questions.
