[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hi everyone, first of all thank you for the Future Architecture Foundation and it's a pleasure to meet here as representative for my group of Architects of alternative that is high quality from based on Madison London then is 4 by Jose quitting hosted hundreds and Abu Army I'm Victor Cano an I'm going to present a research project, model or bust out something. I will have to start representation with this video. Is there demolition of?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Pretty great building. Next to the energetic and powerful action, the architects Holdings announced the end of Modernism in 1972. But for our project is not only important, this fact is only important. The reasons being we are going to try to answer 3 questions in order to a. Criticize the pretty Gray building on context and be showing the necessity of a product like model in Boston sealer for the future of architecture. The first question is.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Why? Why pretty was normalized? Because the high rate of crime and violence that create our history with a low occupancy housing where they condition of life were terrible.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Butt hole how? Was possible this high rate of crimes and violence because they particular project was the Star project of the rationalism and what happened? That the all important was the object they shape the form. But what happened with the real needs with the real action of the people? There is a big ass so big distance between the bill environment and the real needs of the people that they're going or they were living there.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And what what did we do as an architect to support this situation? That still is nowadays in some architectural or urban design? A to believe that rationalism is synonymous with progress from architect Russell Turner. We think that the model is tool is an icon of 1 ideology. This ideally has been representing along the 20 century in several other sellers name like modern movement, rationalising, international style. An it has a target to reduce the complexities. The human complexities, the complicity of our action, the complicity of our identities for one body and for one pattern design. But we think that the space is more complex and we have to design for all the bodies with all the particularity. There is a special sentence of various Espinoza that say no ones know what a body can do, and I think that this is a very powerful sentence for the future of the architecture. So useful for architecture.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Wing pretty wisdom allies Sanjel thought that this simplification of the architecture is finished, but no, this is an outlet of contemporary of modern modernism buildings actually. In 2017 I lost a lot of them. They are inhabited by the model or bar children's. And we're going to.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
This we are not going to understand this building as audit addressable Turner. The model of art and seasoning is going to understand these buildings so the bodies action and sensation of their inheritance.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
For that we are going to choose a study cases. One of them is the district of Quichua in Paris. This is the district where started the riots of 2005 that it was very famous. But because these centers of Nicolas Sarkozy. A say that very bad things about the immigrants. We are not going to understand this building on the street as an object. But rather the axiom like this police rate.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And the second is 3 cases. 10 stunning nesticle as well. It's a place in the server on Esther call because in the periphery is where the things happen in not in the city center. An intense to a. We're going to analyze this building, know from rationalistic aesthetic, we're going to try to explain this building through an underground aesthetic. Like, for example, the aesthetic of hip hop operate dance.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
This is a diagram that is so useful for us. Maybe it could be improved, of course, and we compare the traditional specialty apologies of architectural of architecture with concepts and situation that it's so useful for understanding these spaces. For example, urbanising we're going to understand organizing throw bodies and action. We are going to understand the public space of the cumulant communal space. So relation affects housing we are going to try to understand the housing. So identity is anaesthetics.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Federal romanism actors embodies the riots, probably in the last year. The best way to understand the city and to understand your management is the riot. The area probably is one of the model of architecture more interesting. In the last time because is the mix of the movement of the bodies in the space and the conflict of these bodies with the buildings.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Here, for example, is an image of quichua the place where Paris riots started.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And this is. I try so no way to represent these space objects, measures, parking cars.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
But this is the same. Playing with cartography with cartography a variety. What's happening that's when appears the movement of the bodies and the conflict. The space is more interesting. We represent this in this way because there is a a sentence down for as well. It's important that the philosophers delays that say that a body is not defined, but the substance the body is defined by the relationship, and we think that the Organism is more a question of the relationship between the bodies that the static position of the buildings of the audience and as.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Well, you can see the snapshot that is the riot at some drawings. It's important that we proposed an understanding of the city, not like maybe Kevin Lynch that say OK, there is some interesting point that are the icons of the city and their static object. We proposed a dynamic organizing where the center and the icon is the body in movement.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The second one is the public space or building relation, and I'll fix. On what happened with this, for example, English Bar in the district there is a. Minimal housing on overcrowded, overcrowded flats. Then so many people. A has his relation, they relationships and this affects not in the housing because there is no a space outside the housing were in this like communal space as well. It's so far from Paris and there is no good public transport with leisure areas. Dense. All the activities take care here.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
If we see these entrance Hall perspective plan, we can see how Anna space. That's usually it doesn't have any specific program we can see at the North. There is a secondary entrance where there is a hand roll, a handrail an around there there is a meeting point. At the South there is, uh, so far this is the main entrance are always suffice okupe by one or two members. That always is what he who enters in the building and in the space of the staircase. Someone there is a drug dealer that situate in this space because it's very important that it is in this in between a space cause the police and doesn't watch him.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Maybe in these in this section you can see the disposition of their bodies in a better way. A we can see the two members in this so far with anesthetic underground and at the background the drug dealer, but it's not.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Going to be always illegal things. For example, we can see in the left part how a couple is flying, playing with the baby in this entrance Hall because there is no space at home. And in the right part among that is working out in the staircase because maybe there is not a gym or he can pay it.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And the third one is the housing an for the housing, and we're going to have a model that is based on the housing of parenting style and then start is a black rapper that won the Grammy Prize for the best album Hip Hop in 2008. Eyelift intense time in a House of the modern movement, and we're going to see a video that is. Skechers leather face is just stripped down. Stylish looks like my please select the pizza boxes at least at the kitchen or Ave. See who's that evidence right? There is my brother. Oh, that's fuck. Black Oh my God. OK, this is Stan style.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And it's quite interesting how dense to show his home because it's a House of the modern movement, but he don't talk about. The white walls because there are 50 he don't talk about how the lights enter into the space, so the window. No, he's telling about the graffiti, his memories, his aesthetics. He's showing the home in other way.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
But this is the advertisement for this house. The million program, as you can see, there is nobody. There is only object. What is the woman? An object? And this understanding of the space and the architecture, Fortunately. Nowadays each finish. I hope everything is staying.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
10 star is. No more operands is this reality. The harsh reality an I would like to read this sentence because I understand is the model who represents this new way of relation with the space where the building is merely a container without no so much interest in this case, and the objects, schemes, memory and his aesthetics become the center of other spatial understanding.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
In addition, intense to this, a lot of immigrants alot of muslin as well. Ann is quite interesting as well because they use the skins to Rob the space and this is is the way. A like this Muslim people understand the space is the same. A House of the modern movement and how it take the space to feel that they belong or the space belong to him. And.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
He needs. Which is the best way to understand future architecture only from the objects? Also, the bodies as well and I'm going to finish with other video. That is kishaba. They play statistics where they started the riot in Paris 50 years ago and right now. The committee will be a couple. Thank you very much.
