At the University of Warwick. Then I'll talk about how we might go about developing more general processes, and in that case we can develop a process which is related to the plus under each day or the Pitman yor process which people have used as an alternative to the jury selection process. These follow Opossum process with intensity Lambda and the theaters once again are drawn from just some base measure H. Yeah. But which for all the observable which haven't been allocated to that point? And then we can carry on doing that. Using these particular weights, of course, once we get to a point where there's going to be some point, some minimum value of Tor for which we after which we have no points allocated to values of the time. So we have completely the same construction. But these are allowed to depend on time. And So what we imagine we observe is a whole series of observations which are drawn from those distributions of various different time points. The positions of our kind of normal kernels or or whatever we're using in our infinite mixture model to make things kind of continuous to allow the weights to change overtime, and so that's what we're doing here. There's a number of ways defining this FT, and So what people usually do is to think about generalizing kind of standard constructions, standard representations of the jury, say process. So the Chinese restaurant algorithm type representation of the jury say process. Per capita GDP taking logs over 110 EU regions from 1977 to 1996, and so these are. For the DPR we can develop a kind of Chinese restaurant type representation which may be useful both for MCMC methods and for non MCMC methods like the the. And the process defines a jump process on probability measures and therefore it is quite useful at finding change points in distribution. So we assume that the V1 up to V3 are independent and that potentially in its most general form, that the VJS come from a beta distribution with parameters AJ and BJ. So if we want to process with concentration parameter N, then that means that the VJS are beta distributed with parameters one and M. So the parameters don't depend on this index J. And the person to reach die or Pitman Yor process arises if the VJS have this form here. So one way to build to think about building time dependent random measures would be to think about how we might go about defining a random walk on discrete distributions. And so if we just think about defining a random walk. That would be down log of this one here. So if our epsilon TR innovation were to just be a single Atom at a point V to T. Then RFT is going to have this form here. We we break the stick according to the Vis that we come across going backwards in time. Point about this type of construction and this type of process.