[0.0s - 29.0s]
So if I asked you to name as many animals as fast as you can, you might say something like dog cat, hamster, Tiger, lion, monkey, and so on. Were there some pretty obvious clusters in the sequence? These bursts of semantically related words being produced together, and some noticeable pauses between these birds, and so this example has a cluster of pets followed by a cluster of African or zoo animals. And we're interested in what sorts of representations and algorithms underlying human memory search produce behavior like this so.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The memory search task I began with is called the Semantic Fluency task, and the resulting behaviors where clusters seem to appear in semantic memory recently been proposed as a analogy to the distribution of animal food sources in Apache environment. So animals search for food they have to consider the costs and benefits of staying within a Patch as opposed to searching for new Patch, and they do this guided by an optimal foraging policy. So the corresponding policy proposed for. Research is that people should leave a Patch or semantically related cluster when the instantaneous rate of finding more relevant items falls below the expected rate of searching elsewhere in memory. And this was supported experimentally by Hills and colleagues and scratch on the bottom plots. The ratio of Inter item response times to average response time and. Is ordered relative to. The start of a new Patch or cluster so the bar in the middle with the one under it represents. This started a new cluster, so using the example output it might be like Tiger and the bar next to it with the two would be then lion and the bars to the left come from the previous cluster, so maybe something like cat and hamster in this case and we see that the bars up until this Patch which increased towards the average response time, which is the dotted line and they only go above this when when it is a new Patch which so something like. For Tiger because it takes time to find a new Patch, and this is exactly what optimal foraging theory predicts, so this explanation of memories holds, but it's relatively complex. Soon separate processes for producing words from a Patch, and for deciding when to switch to a new Patch. So as an alternative account, we explored randomly walking in Apache environment, so something like the structure of semantic memory.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And in particular, we examine a random walk over semantic network. So these networks represent the relationships between words as a directed graph, where each word is a node and nodes are connected by an edge if they are associated in some manner. And we focused on a network derived from a word Association task where you ask people to list as many words that come to mind for particular Q. So then we analyzed whether the relationship between animal nodes in the semantic network implicitly encoded the clustering seen in semantic fluency tasks. We did this using distance between animals and network is a measure of similarity, which is the graph on top and by additive clustering with the hand coded animal sub categorizations by Hills and colleagues in this graph on the bottom. And since both of these contain similar block structure, it supports the hypothesis that the clusters are implicitly encoded in this network. So if the distance between animals in different clusters is greater than the distance between animals in the same cluster. As these results suggest, then a simple search process that's sensitive to this distance should be able to produce the report of optimal foraging behavior.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So we did. We explored some variations of random walks on this network, producing a list of nodes visited preparation and then proposed a simple mapping of this output to response times and with these rather simple assumptions we found quite similar results to people's behavior and consistent with optimal foraging theory. So if you'd like to hear more about these ideas, please stop by poster 86 tonight, thanks.
