Many tools are common, like program which panacea transforming sub service while opener in rest sub service as a chessable from graphic interface open Air offers pop both post and get API. Make this service also part of web leak and Wan and Language Resource Switchboards will eventually attract more users. Create a rest services and APIs but we have to take in mind that while opener is easily rapid into rest, the context panacea is not. This means that we start from the original common line tools and use a different framework to obtain rest and the point. For option one supplied transforming the common line to soap do offer API's to manage it. I mean we have to maintain the original soup and there and then you rest endpoints probably replicate shown of server and these are cons we consider option to not economical for our purpose. Panacea motivational panacea are related to overcome the language barriers through technological means. This is especially true for machine translation system and for their significant impact on management or multilingualism in Europe, automatic translation is required by millions of cities all across Europe. To automate all stage involved in the acquisition, production, updating, validation and maintains of language resorts. Essentially, the roughly play with the input and output formats, it is able to trust for plaintext into a valid TCF. There there is that. Digit code contains more than the service described it it is also skeleton to wrap other services. What is needed to do is to intercept the output or the service an convert into an internal format which will be future managed at it. We have to update the list of services offered by Klarin so they can be used and distributed. In the Netherlands, might have a humble made a application or I don't know exactly how to call it. This is a story of promises, but we are quite positive of having such services. We know we still have time. Open air created difference pipeline which cover NLP task from Lexicon creation to production of advanced annotation for sentiment analysis. Both projects implement interoperability and exploit available standards. Both projects use sort of workflow to process linguistic data. If we go and visual or virtual language survey Teran perform a simple search, we can see that there is anonymous genetix between machine translation and the other NLP tasks. These two communities seem to be differently, is represented in the metric in the number of resources available through VL.