I have learned so much from being here over the last week, so thank you also to the presenters before I start, I want to give you some perspective on where I'm coming from and basically I survived the tail of the AI winter in Japan and I just learned the error in my ways in that trying to combine a compile knowledge from humans is very difficult and I learn very quickly that machine learning and especially statistical machine learning is very important and a great way of. Enlisting knowledge from humans and from human behavior. There are three main players in online advertising. And the essentially an ad network is basically an intermediary and it serves a group of websites which want to host advertisements and it acts as a liaison between them and advertisers who want to run advertisements on those sites. So, so we have an ad network. It's basically a collection of properties where people want to monetize those properties and they want to connect to advertisers who want to advertise on those properties. So an ad agency is nothing more than an agency that has provides various services. So there's a very special type of an ad agency is called search engine marketing type client. And the idea here is that they will take your ads or maybe even create your ads and they'll figure out which keywords you should bid on and how much you should bid and. Police is the standards on line, and so the types of ads you can get online or text graphical flash rich media and that includes sound and video. Online advertising is not search and there are a variety of reasons which will I go into which will demonstrate that? So therefore it's sometimes very challenging to to accommodate everybody's needs and make progress on this front. They are the new latest craze online. There are three basic business models. There's the cost per impression, the CPM model, and generally people in the advertising game. So the CPM is basically saying well how many times was this ad shown to a person? Essentially, the cost per click is a bit more demanding in that the publisher doesn't get paid until somebody clicks on the ad and the cost per click is a very popular model in sponsorship. Search sponsored sponsored search. So you got Google, Yahoo, Microsoft. These are some of the big ad networks online. Revenue they just love to make money. This is a very encouraging trend for online advertising. And then talk about online advertising in particular. And I want to then follow by describing the business models that underlie online advertising. So how many of you here have created an ad campaign online? So anyway, if you want to create an add on line. So to create an ad online, there's a typical workflow that you follow. So generally you would go to the advertising network such as Google or Yahoo. So here's an example of a of online text Dad, and basically this creative consists of an ad title and add text Anna Display URL. Monitor how your ad campaign is done doing and this is some of the analytics that you can get on your campaign. And here we say, we see that we have 3000 clicks. One of the more expensive keywords is this one, here mesothelioma, and it's a type of cancer that's caused by exposure to asbestos. Right now the cost of a click on this keyword here is about $100. There is a high human touch when it comes to. There are various approaches that people have developed and they fall into the categories of information retrieval machine learning. So here's the general setting for online advertising. We've got a user. He said that half the money I spend on advertising is wasted. Just to get you familiar terminology, we got a user target page. The bid price is pretty deterministic, but this clickthrough value here is. Is a bit more difficult to estimate and this is I guess, the source of all the secret sources at Google and Yahoo and all the other advertising networks and so to give you a sense of what's a stake here, let's assume that the true click through rate for an ad is 5%. What I'm trying to say is that this 5% is pretty noisy and you want to make it as accurate as possible because you will be very inefficient and how you serve at. Then there are a group of global solutions. Second price auction, and you can use a variety of approaches from information retrieval machine learning to do this. Use IR, just extract terminology from both the publisher and advertiser side of things and use cosine similarity metrics to establish. Use all the keywords and use the landing page. Similar setting got a user target page creatives. And they used historical data. So the idea here is that you have a list of ads and each ad is associated with one keyboard and you want to figure out well if I show this ad when a person inputs this keyword into the search engine, what is the probability of a user clicking on it? They tried to characterize the appearance of the ad on the target page, how many words in the title, capitalization, punctuation, or there's some attention. Bad ad placements and this is an example here. Another interesting aspect of this work was that if you use many features in your modeling framework, it helps you insulate yourself from adversarial attacks. It also can help you in mining or detecting attacks also. You have to define a portfolio of keywords. That's a lot of words and phrases. There are three basic business models, CPM, CPC, CPA. There's a recently there's a category of publishers there called cybersquatters or typo squatters or domain name bandits, and basically what they do is they will go and purchase a domain and. It's a I think it's people are living in denial when they say click fraud is not a problem and I think some of the big ad networks will.