[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon everybody. My name is Jimmy Shanahan and today I'm going to talk about. Online advertising and I'm going to tell you about what it is. Some of the technologies that are. Is not on. I'm gonna lean in. OK, so I'm going to tell you about online advertising and going to what is type out some of the technologies that are currently being used and researched around it. Some of the issues that we're currently facing in this field.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So before I begin, I would like to say thank you very much to the organizers and especially to Francoise for having me here, it's. I have learned so much from being here over the last week, so thank you also to the presenters before I start, I want to give you some perspective on where I'm coming from and basically I survived the tail of the AI winter in Japan and I just learned the error in my ways in that trying to combine a compile knowledge from humans is very difficult and I learn very quickly that machine learning and especially statistical machine learning is very important and a great way of. Enlisting knowledge from humans and from human behavior. So anyway, I did my PhD at University of Bristol and in the meantime I've worked with a variety of places including Xerox, research, clairvoyance, and more. Recently I've worked at turn Incorporated which is an online advertising network and by the end of today's presentation you all know exactly what an online advertising network is. Currently I do independent consulting in the Bay Area, so if you're looking for somebody to look at your data or model it then hey.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
I mean email and we'll go from there so. I realize it's the end of the day here, and people are probably very tired and want to be elsewhere, so I'm not prepared to 1 slide for you if you want to leave after this. So basically I. The take home message. From this talk, I hope will be that online advertising is a very important. It's becoming a very important field. It's 17 billion dollar industry alone in North America. It's growing at an annual rate of 30% and there are three fundamental models that people follow in this space. There is the cost per impression cost per click cost per action. Cost per action is the more. It's a newer business model and it's getting a lot of. Pick up in the marketplace these days. So. Online advertising is not search and there are a variety of reasons which will I go into which will demonstrate that? And like in many environments, especially search people try to define relevance and. Utility functions and so on and people enter into all sorts of philosophical debates and say hey, relevance is equates to usefulness while in the business world, relevance equates to revenue. Another important point that I'd like you to take home from today's talk is that ranking is very important when it comes to selecting ads. But one important aspect of ranking is prediction and I'll show you how prediction plays a very critical role in the ranking of ads in online contexts. This is a hugely diverse area. It's drawing on experts from economics, information retrieval, machine learning, statistics, sociology and so forth. So therefore it's sometimes very challenging to to accommodate everybody's needs and make progress on this front. So the key directions as I see them right now in online advertising. Well over the last year, we've seen a lot of consolidation in the business of online advertising. We've seen all the big Giants including Yahoo, Google, Microsoft, go out and acquire online advertising networks and the main reason why they acquired these networks is that they see these networks as basically real estate, and this is a way of capturing this real estate via acquisitions and so the moral of the story is that being a publisher today online is King and this morning we saw on film and talk about his. Effort where he's trying to create content online and one potential business model for this type of activity is advertising. So one of the big challenges in online advertising is how do we estimate the click through probability? What's the clickthrough rate of an ad? Or what is the action rate associated with an ad? And I'll go through how difficult it is and how people tackle this in the course of today's presentation. There are all sorts of economic models that people bring to bear when it comes to online advertising and it's a hugely active area over the last couple of years. And of course, there's always a need for a new machine learning algorithm and a few have been proposed in this context. Today I'm not going to talk about privacy and social considerations, but there are many and I'm sure you could think of. We could spend a whole hour talking or hours or days talking about these issues, but we're not going to talk about today. In terms of applications, upcoming applications, we see widgets. They are the new latest craze online. We see them as being very important in creating more real estate. If you like where people can advertise online there streaming media and as mobile so this is the executive summary. So if you feel you want to leave now, that's all fine by me. But if you want to stay then this is what we're in for. I'm just going to give you a brief introduction to advertise.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And then talk about online advertising in particular. And I want to then follow by describing the business models that underlie online advertising. And show you how you can create an ad campaign online, if that's if you haven't done it already by yourself. And there are lots of exciting both commercial and research directions when it comes to technology in this space, and I'm going to talk about a couple of those later today. And there are many challenges, of course, and I want to summarize some of those for you. And finally, I'll finish by.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
With some conclusions. So advertising very pervasive, very noisy. This is an image from Time Square in New York and you'd say, well, where?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Message. So the the the problem with online advertising is. And you can see it here. John Wanamaker, the father of modern day advertising, put it best. He said that half the money I spend on advertising is wasted. The trouble is, I don't know which half, and that is a big problem that's been pervasive in offline advertising and. The lofty goals of online advertising is to show you which half is working and also to go from just being purely advertising, driving to providing information that's useful for consumer. And this is all possible through being able to measure various types of activities around ads online. And this is one of the driving forces that brings advertisers online. They want to measure. They want to know.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Return on their investment. So examples of. Online advertising include contextual ads on search engine's banner ads, advertising networks, email marketing, spam, even Interactive TV, and so on. So there's a whole spectrum of advertising and it ranges from brand advertising to direct marketing. Brand advertising is where people will show ads just to make you aware of certain products or services. There is no interaction required, no no feedback required, whereas direct marketing there is some required activity. For example, sign up for an email or make it.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Purchase so in an offline setting advertising we see ads everywhere, but sometimes we see some. Bad ad placements and this is an example here. We've got two ads side by side. One is advocating that childhood obesity is a problem and the other is advocating. Well go to McDonald's and go on a spending spree. So there's something wrong with this picture I guess, and some advertisers would not be very happy with this.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
This happens also, sorry. I'm sorry that I'm. I had another slide was an online setting, but I mean this will do. This is an example of another horse, say add malfunction online and last year eBay and Google had a had a contract where. EBay ads which would be shown for on terms on search query terms that hadn't any bids. So in this case here somebody typed in the keyword, Irwin Steve Dead and Steve Irwin is a famous TV personality from Australia. He's a crocodile Hunter who was killed last year. Unfortunately and somebody put the query in Google and Lo and behold, you can find Steve Irwin dead in eBay and it's wonderful. But anyway, that was last year, so this is a bittersweet moment for advertising, and you've got to figure out the sweet part of this. This ad.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
I'll tell you the solution later. OK, so online advertising. What is it? There are three main players in online advertising. There's the user, there's the publisher and there's the advertiser. And you can imagine yourself sitting at your computer, you're browsing the Internet. And let's say you're looking at a newswire article on New York Times. You go to New York Times New York Times will say, hey, here's the newswire article and then to generate money. They will show you ads on the side. So they will.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
They will go to their repository or database of ads and figure out which ad they should show you, and so they will have some sort of targeting engine to rank the ads and select the ads to show you. So this is a very Canonical or simplistic view of.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Online advertising and. There are all sorts of.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Of of. Models of online advertising that involve various different players. The first player is an ad network. And the essentially an ad network is basically an intermediary and it serves a group of websites which want to host advertisements and it acts as a liaison between them and advertisers who want to run advertisements on those sites. So this is essentially an ad.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
At Network now, you might say, well, give us an example of that and. Google is a great example of an online advertising network. First of all, it's got many properties of its own. It's got the Google search engine. It's got Gmail got frugal, then is done. Many search partners where they serve ads too. So including AOL and then it works with a variety of content publishers, varying from very large publishers like New York Times about COM and then going all the way down to blog sites or personal users so. How many people here have Google AdSense running on their websites? Just one person, two people. Any advances to going once? So so basically Google has all these properties where they can serve.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Ads now they also are hooked into the advertiser side, and so they're linked to advertisers directly. They're also links to ad agencies, and I'll tell you more about aging.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
This now. So, so we have an ad network. It's basically a collection of properties where people want to monetize those properties and they want to connect to advertisers who want to advertise on those properties. So an ad agency is nothing more than an agency that has provides various services. To create ads to plan and handle the advertising for these advertising clients. And it's a very common business model if you're if you're a big company, you will probably outsource all the creative design and planning. And scheduling of advertising. But if you're a small person company like me then I will do the creative design, probably myself. I'll do the scheduling of the the ads myself and.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And we'll talk more about that shortly. So there's a very special type of an ad agency is called search engine marketing type client. Our agency and here these guys have come into business as a secondary business to some of these sponsored search engines for Yahoo and Google and so on. And the idea here is that they will take your ads or maybe even create your ads and they'll figure out which keywords you should bid on and how much you should bid and. An example of a search engine marketing firm that leverages machine learning and statistics is efficient frontier. They use the efficient frontier algorithm from portfolio management and finance to figure out. Which keywords, how much you should bid on these search engine?

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So. The bottom line, when it comes to online advertising, it's a super modular system. Everybody plugs into each other and then you can aggregate in different ways so an ad network can aggregate multiple publishers and they can even aggregate themselves. An ad agency aggregates over advertisers. And the bottom line is. Is to take ads from advertisers and show them on publishers and monetize.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
For the publisher. So when it comes to formats, there are many agreed standards and the Interactive Advertising Bureau in America. Police is the standards on line, and so the types of ads you can get online or text graphical flash rich media and that includes sound and video. And then they're all different size.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Is as well. So here's an example from. It's a rectangular graphical ad from.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Like us here's a banner ad and what is wrong with this ad? Yeah, so so basically it's bad placement the it's a newswire article, it's about a toddler that was burnt in a fire and is dead and suddenly Iomega they have this storage device and the just burn baby burn and I guess there's bad targeting there and so it's not very sympathetic to the toddler who was.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Was killed in the fire. So anyway, that's the kind of short summary of what online advertising is about the main I want to talk about briefly about the business models and why you want to do.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Business in online advertising. There are three basic business models. There's the cost per impression, the CPM model, and generally people in the advertising game. The count in terms of thousands and Neil is 1000 in Latin and French I guess. And and. So the CPM is basically saying well how many times was this ad shown to a person? And. The publisher gets paid every time the ad is shown. Essentially, the cost per click is a bit more demanding in that the publisher doesn't get paid until somebody clicks on the ad and the cost per click is a very popular model in sponsorship. Search sponsored sponsored search. The third model, which is a relatively new model, is the CPA or cost per action. Here the requirement is not just to show the ad and click on the ad, but you must in addition perform some action around the ad. You must make a purchase or sign up for an email or something like that, so transaction oriented.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Activity. So I'm sure you're familiar with some of the names on this slide here. Here's a list of some of the big players and their roles in the online advertising game. So you got Google, Yahoo, Microsoft. These are some of the big ad networks online. Turn as as a relative newcomer, it's a company that I used to work for. Came online maybe 2 1/2 years ago. There's right media, double click and then you got a whole bunch of affiliate networks and agencies and so.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So in terms of history, very briefly, online advertising is a relatively new field and really is only in existence for the last 10 or 12 years it started off with CPM banner ads and then back in 98 go to which became renamed itself to Overture started paper. Click type business model and did very well until they were acquired by Yahoo in 2002 I believe, or three. Google originally had an AdWords based network that was CPM based, but they switched to a CPC model in 2000, three 2002. And then add sense, which is the content based network came online in 2003. So over the last number of years there's been massive consolidation. We've seen the big players like Yahoo acquiring right media and Blue Lithium, Google acquiring DoubleClick, Microsoft acquiring a quantive, and these are all billion dollars. Billions of dollars transactions. So it's a pretty happening time.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
I'm set list. So. Why would you want to be in advertising an? I guess there are two perspectives. There's the advertiser's perspective and the publishers perspective. Advertisers want to be online because you can measure things and it's all about measurement, actions, clicks, impressions. It's generally cheaper to advertise online. Compared to other forms of advertising such as direct mailing. There's a huge reach when it comes to.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Advertising online and this is a graph from a couple of years ago, but what you can see is that there are increasingly more people going online to do search to do email activities and so on in North America. And this is increasing the reach into the average American and this is a very attractive proposition for Abbott.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Geysers from a publishers perspective, the. There are. I guess 2 main reasons. First of all, they'd love to think that ads are useful for people and that they're bringing some value to the user to consumer. And Secondly, it's.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Revenue they just love to make money. So in terms of revenue, here's a. A graph of revenue for the last six years and overall you can see the trend is upwards and. Last year there was about 17 billion dollars in revenue and that was a 35% increase from the previous year and I think this year the trend will even go further up. It will be probably 2022 billion dollars by the end of the year. This is a very encouraging trend for online advertising.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So overall when we look at advertising in North America in particular, we see that. Online or Internet advertising? Is becoming a big player. The online sorry the advertising market in North America is about. Um? About 260 billion dollars and. Online advertising makes up about 5.9% of that today, and this proportion is increasing every year and it's increasing at a very fast rate 25%. And overall, the field of advertising in North America is only increasing at a 7%, so there's something good happening in the.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Field of online advertising. So like I said previously, cost per impression is that it is a non performance based business model. The advertiser, sorry the publisher, gets paid when he shows the ad. There's no requirement for the user to provide any feedback on the ad. Performance based business models include the CPC and CPA where the require users interact with the.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And they can measure that. So online the difference between performance and non performance based advertising is not very big. Both account for about 4546% of the.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Ave So this is something I found online and I'm not sure if it's exactly true, but it's saying that sponsored search for Google amounts for 60% of its revenue, and this was the Q3 of last year and 40% accounts for the contextual side of Google's revenue.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
This is a large number. So how many of you here have created an ad campaign online? Nobody. How many people here have clicked on that online? Be honest now. No, it's not everybody. It's it's it's it's great. I mean now I normally people very few people admit they click online and but it's great. As we like you too. So anyway, if you want to create an add on line. What time is it? OK, I'm just.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Through this pretty quickly. So to create an ad online, there's a typical workflow that you follow. So generally you would go to the advertising network such as Google or Yahoo. You'll create an advertiser account, your input, your name, address, credit card, and so on. You'll have some ad creatives an you will create a campaign and you'll upload your creatives to this campaign and then you'll specify some targeting constraints. So, for example, in sponsored search you might have. Keyboard constraints. And then you specify a bid for each keyword, and you allocate a budget for your campaign and then away you go and generally. You will have multiple creatives and you want to figure out which you created is going to work best and you might do some AB testing.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So here's an example of a of online text Dad, and basically this creative consists of an ad title and add text Anna Display URL. The display URL will basically hyperlinked to the advertiser. It'll generally go to a special page on the advertiser's site, which we call landing page.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
And. So if we want to work with Google will go to the Google main page, will click on the. Is this thing working? Will click on advertising programs and.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
And we'll create our our account and. So Google provides a variety of tools for you to figure out well which keywords should you bid on. And let's say that you're interested in data mining, so you put in data mining into this. Box here and then you can press this button and say hey give me more keywords which I should be done and it's got this suggestive tool. It's pretty good.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And then it also gives you the ability to figure out the search volume associated with each keyword, and it gives us some indications about the bid prices you should you should go.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Also. Then you can add some additional constraints to your campaign and say, hey, I just want to show this add on. 2 users who are invirase E and that's it. So you can have this Geo target.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Type constraint. So. When it comes, so now you've created your ad campaign and you can. Deploy it and it goes live and maybe over the next day you will get certain impressions. You get certain clicks and you can monitor. Monitor how your ad campaign is done doing and this is some of the analytics that you can get on your campaign. Here we've got four campaigns and we've got a daily budget of $3000.00 for this campaign. A campaign basically is is a collection of ads with maybe different formats. They might belong banner type ads or there could be skyscraper or rectangular or text or or so on. And here we say, we see that we have 3000 clicks. We've got 100,000 impressions. We got to click through rate of three point 2% and we got an average cost per click of $0.74. So overall, this campaign has cost me $2400 so far, and sometimes they will also provide the ability to figure out. If a user has clicked on your ad and also if they have gone to your landing page and they've done something in your landing page so you can figure out if they have completed a transaction on your site and so you can figure out that you spend this much money. In this case, here you spend $2400 in advertising for this campaign and maybe this has resulted in 200 transactions. So therefore is cost you $10 per transaction. And that's some useful data for advertisers, so advertisers generally think not in terms of clicks where they think in terms of actions or conversions or sales. And generally that's a more attractive and proposition.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
For them. So here are some of the interesting keywords online and. One of the more expensive keywords is this one, here mesothelioma, and it's a type of cancer that's caused by exposure to asbestos. And generally when it when a user types in this word into a a search engine, they are probably suffering from this and they probably are about to enter into litigation. Until the investigation, and therefore they will and Johnny. These litigations come to millions of dollars. So from a lawyer's perspective, this is a great way of getting new clients. And so the lawyers will will outbid each other and on average. Right now the cost of a click on this keyword here is about $100. And according to the Wall Street Journal from a number of years ago. Here are some of the more expensive keywords so we can see that casino has a cost per click, about $15. It's interesting to note that at Google, the average costs per click was $1.60 about two years ago. And the average clickthrough rate on a keyword is 2.6%, so that's pretty high. I think, given the fact that most people will say I've never clicked on an ad. How much is Beckham? It's $5.10 dollars. It varies. It depends on the context.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
So OK, so it's background on online advertising. We talked about the business models and now I'd like to take some time to talk about the tech.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Knology underlying. Online advertising, so the traditional model for advertising offline advertising in particular is that an advertiser would approach some newspaper or magazine and say, hey, I want to have this ad and I want to put it on the front page and the. The media person would have a rate sheet and a rate sheet looks like this and it would say it will cost you. At $12.00 per thousand papers or magazines printed, and this so it's basically it's a high. There's a lot of sales people involved. There are media buyers or sellers for the publishers, and it's all. It's a very human intensive process for getting ads into magazines and newspapers. Some of this has been imported into online advertising. There is a high human touch when it comes to. Premium sites like forbes.com or New York Times. And. But the. The bulk of online advertising at Google and Yahoo is not from premium. Advertisers are on premium publishers. It's from smaller clients like people like me or you that have home pages or web pages, or you want to advertise about certain things that are not as important or are big too as purchasing a car. So.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
So. The technology can be decomposed into two parts. There's the infrastructure supporting it and I'm not going to talk about it. Then the more interesting part, and where the money is, is how to target ads to pop.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Pictures. So there are various ways to breakdown the approaches that people use in both commercial and academic setting for online advertising. One can look at the business model. One can look at sponsored search, paid search or the other side of advertising. The con textual side of advertising. There are various approaches that people have developed and they fall into the categories of information retrieval machine learning. This quadratic programming approaches and then.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Are various hybrids. So today I'm going to look primarily at cost per click based targeting, and then I'm going to show that some of the flaws that there are in CPC. Targeting and talk about how CPA.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Comes to rescue. So here's the general setting for online advertising. We've got a user. We've got a target page from the publisher, and we've got some.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Targeting engine and the targeting engine will go to the ad database and figure out which.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Add to show to the user. So. Anne. Just to get you familiar terminology, we got a user target page. We got ad creative switch the add the ads you see online and then associated with each ad there's a landing page or an advertiser page that you will go to when you.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
On the ad. So. This is a sponsored search based CPC model and we all think we're all familiar with that. We see that Google, Yahoo, MSN and so on and the idea there is that you will. Put in a query, you'll get back a set of organic results from the web and then here you'll get some sponsored ads on the right hand side.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Here is the other side of CPC advertising and this is the contextural aspect of advertising. Here you're reading an article online and people chose to to Pepper. Ads are show ads in the. On the web.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Age also. So. OK, so the general framework here is that. We have a target page and we want to figure out which ad we should show to this user in this particular.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Target page. And there are many ways of ranking the ads. So for example, one could say, oh, I've got this. I've got 100 ads I could show on this. I could select the add a random so random selection of ads and alternative is to say well associated with each ad is a bid price. And you take, you select the ad that has the highest bid price, so it's just purely revenue driven and this is the bid to position model which Yahoo has used for quite awhile and just recently changed. The more popular and efficient model from an economic perspective is this E CPM based ranking model and this model is really simple. Let's assume that we have two ads that have the same bid price and let's assume that one ad has twice the click rate of the other. Which ad would you choose to show to the user? Guess. OK, so of course you'll pick the ad with the highest clickthrough rate because it's going to give you the highest expected revenue, and so this E CPM is basically expected cost per thousand, and this is a term often used when it comes to ranking ads in online advertising. So the idea is that you take the product of the click through rate. Times the bid price for the ad and this gives you expected costs that an advertiser will pay to a publisher when a user clicks on this ad. At Yahoo they call this click through rate. The ad quality index, they feel that click rates somehow are proxy for the quality of the ad in a particular context.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
So. Anne, I should mention that there's been a lot of work in developing economic models of online targeting, and the one that people settle on most is this second price auction scheme. And so the general idea here is that if you're the winner of the auction, you don't pay your bid. You pay the when I click is when I click occurs on your ad you pay the bid price of the ad and 2nd place plus some nominal value. So at Google you will pay the bid price. So in this case here we have two ads. He has a big price of 75. Sorry Adeas 75 at B has a bid price of $0.50 and but the click through rates are the ad quality index for add. Sorry Abby is over twice that of a so therefore if you take a product of the. Bid price times the ad quality index add B comes to the top and if I go to click on add B I'm going to pay the minimum of $0.50 or 75 + 1 and so this is the the in this case. Here I'm going to pay $0.50 to say Google or Yahoo. Somebody clicks on my ad anyway. It's rather simple model but I'm not doing it just.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
By rushing through here. So. The bottom line is the main way of ranking ads online is using this E CPM based model is expected cost per meal for an ad and is composed of a clickthrough estimate. Anna bid price. The bid price is pretty deterministic, but this clickthrough value here is. Is a bit more difficult to estimate and this is I guess, the source of all the secret sources at Google and Yahoo and all the other advertising networks and so to give you a sense of what's a stake here, let's assume that the true click through rate for an ad is 5%. Well, to be confident that this is actually true, you will have to show the ad 1000 times. In order to be confident that the clickthrough rate is actually in the range of four to 6% to the level of 85 percent, 85%. So. What I'm trying to say is that this 5% is pretty noisy and you want to make it as accurate as possible because you will be very inefficient and how you serve at. If you underestimate your going to be losing revenue. If you overestimate, you're going to be losing revenue, so you better get a spot on and so people have been developing various technologies in order to provide accurate estimates of.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Click through rates. So there are a variety of solutions to estimating this. Click through rate and there are two main families here. There's the local solution and then there. Then there are a group of global solutions. The local solution is where for every. Add call from a publisher. You conduct a real-time auction. You have a particular target page. You've got a user and you want to figure out which ad from your database of ads should you show. So you conduct this real time Vickrey auction. Second price auction, and you can use a variety of approaches from information retrieval machine learning to do this. The global families of solutions. They are more concerned with added constraints. So for example if I am running a website for Amex, there are certain campaigns I want to to run ad campaigns and various departments will say oh, I want I want you to show this. Add 10% of the time and this ad here 20% of the time. So there are all these additional constraints and typically people resolve to. Quadratic programming type approaches to solve this. All these constraints, so I'm not going to talk about the global.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Solutions today I'm going to talk about the local solutions to ranking of ads. So the general framework is is the same and and So what happens here is that will take a target page that the user is looking at. Let's say it's a newswire article. Ann and we'll extract features from that page. Terminology, features, words, phrases and so on, and then we'll just construct a query from this, and then we'll use a typical IR engine to index all the ads we have in our. In our database and will index various features of the ads. Will index the terminology associated with the creative will index the terminology associated with landing pages, and will just use traditional IR approaches to.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Lengthy ads. So I'm just going to talk about a study that was done a number of years ago by Ribeiro NATO in in Brazil, and the main idea here was to just. Use IR, just extract terminology from both the publisher and advertiser side of things and use cosine similarity metrics to establish.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
A ranking for the ads. So here's just here's a target page. It's something about fresh Flowers, and I want to figure out which adds I should show on this, and so the idea is to use terminology from the ad creative and use the keywords which are associated with this ad too, because. If you recall, I uploaded my ad to the system and then I associated with each add sort of keywords. What time is it? OK.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
The bottom line for this study is that. The approach that worked best was to use query expansion from information retrieval. Use all the keywords and use the landing page. And by doing this you will get favorable results in terms of precision and recall. For this limited data set. There are lots of approaches from information retrieval have been applied to this problem. I'm going to talk about them.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Um? I'm just going to talk about machine learning approach before I finish up here. Anne. Similar setting got a user target page creatives. We got landing pages and so you can imagine how we're going to tackle this problem. We're going to extract features from both the target page. We're going to track features about the publisher. We're going to extract features about the ads, the advertisers, and the landing pages, and we're going to put them all together and we're going to try to estimate the click through rate for.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
A particular context. And I'm going to talk about a paper that was presented in just a couple months ago by Richardson ET al from Microsoft, and here they use machine learning and particularly use.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
Just aggression. And so just to give you an idea of the features that they use in in modeling this ranking function. And they used historical data. They used the estimates of click through rates for various keywords. So the idea here is that you have a list of ads and each ad is associated with one keyboard and you want to figure out well if I show this ad when a person inputs this keyword into the search engine, what is the probability of a user clicking on it? And so they used a variety of features, so they use the click through rate estimates for other from other ads that uses keyword. They tried to characterize the appearance of the ad on the target page, how many words in the title, capitalization, punctuation, or there's some attention. Some attention capturing vocabulary use such as by an item or join a club or etc. And they tried to characterize reputation in terms of the length of the URL. And there were also various texts.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
Relevance features they also used popular unigrams from add titles and add bodies and. Use binary features based on these and if a feature if one of these terms a curd in the in the add are the body they got a value of 1 or 0 otherwise. So you can imagine that there are many other features that.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
Might want to throw into the mix here. So what they did was they use the logistic regression approach to model this. It's a very standard technique, it's been around for a while and it seems to work very well for their problem setting. They also looked at more sophisticated machine learning approaches based upon boosted decision trees, and they found that it didn't work as.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
Well.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
It's a pretty extensive study. They had 10,000 advertisers. They had a million.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
Examples and.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
What they found was the following that it was beneficial to use a machine learning approach to learn a model and use that model in the prediction of clickthrough rates. And I'm rushing here, but.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
Another interesting aspect of this work was that if you use many features in your modeling framework, it helps you insulate yourself from adversarial attacks. It also can help you in mining or detecting attacks also. But there are many issues there.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
Remain and. I'm just.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
Want to talk right briefly about those from an online advertising perspective in online advertising? Clicks are rare, especially when it comes to contextual advertising. The typical clickthrough rate for contextual advertising is less than 1%. Generally we've got hugely biased datasets. We keep showing the same ad on the same publisher over and over, and we never really get into exploring after we've always an exploit mode are tend to be an exploit mode, and so as a result you tend to gather data that's not really kind of not really allowing you to explore. Yes, that may monetize better. Generally, we're talking about millions and millions of target pages, and we're also talking about millions of ads and most ads never see the light of day, and so it's a very sparse problem space. As I emphasized earlier at the accuracy of estimating the clickthrough rates is critical, and I think as most of us know here when it comes to machine learning algorithms, they are notoriously biased. They don't generate accurate click through rates, and so sometimes you have to resolve to other means, and so foster Provost proposed an approach for correcting the bias that that's inherent in machine learning approaches. When it comes to an advertising network. It's nonstationary, there's always something changing in the network publishers are coming or going there. Adding new pages, removing old pages. Advertisers are adding ads, removing ads. There's just continuous change. There's banner burnout. And so you have to somehow capture that in your in your modeling as well.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
Finally, for for CPC, there's the big challenge, and that is well. When you upload an ad to advertising network. A sponsored search engine like Yahoo or Google. You have to define a portfolio of keywords. That's a big task, and typically today the average size of of this portfolio is about 15,000 words. That's a lot of words and phrases. And you have to manage the bids for these phrases. So it's an arduous task and a whole secondary industry has been built up around this that optimize your keywords portfolio.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
You're very vulnerable to fraud. And you might see, well, this is a strong motivation for fraud. Here you see that if you click on this, this expression here, you will cost the advertiser $70.00. So if I'm a lawyer, I may want to be. I may be tempted to click on the ads from my from a competitor and burn out their budget for advertising. So click.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
Quality is a big problem. In CPC type networks, and there are various studies that suggest that click fraud amounts anywhere between 5 and 40% of clicks, so it's an issue and this is where a CPA type advertising steps in and. It's more.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
Robust to fraud and just very briefly the difference between CPC and CPA. Is this additional term. So basically we have our click through wait for an ad and now we're adding in this action rate. We're saying, well, if something has clicked on add, what's the probability of them acting on the ad or purchasing a product or signing up for an email and then we got a bid price also. And so this is a relatively new business model, and at turn this is the companies founded around this premise of CPA advertising. And recently Google has offered an open beta version of action based.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
Vertising so.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
There are lots of this. There's an increasing amount of literature in online advertising, especially in conferences like KDD www.sigir.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
And so on.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
Anne. OK. Just to summarize. We're back to the executive summary, just in case you were sleeping. Online advertising it's a. It's a growing field. It's it's a very happening field. The market revenue market is growing by 30% annually. There are three basic business models, CPM, CPC, CPA. Advertising is not search. Relevance equals. Revenue from for businesses in this space ranking is not sufficient. You need to tackle the problem from a production perspective. Feature engineering, statistics an and various data modeling is critical in this field and. Recently, publishers are King. Accurately estimating, ECT. Clickthrough rates in action. Rates of ads is a big problem. It's unsolved and there are various systems and heuristics have been developed to tackle this. There are various economic models that people are just starting to research into. And I didn't talk about privacy and social issues, so.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
I'm done.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
Justin.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
Passing conference.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
CIKM father.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
Conference on Information and knowledge management. Gentle chair for it next year. It's an ACM conference. It's a sister conference cigar. And we're going to have it in Napa Valley, California. It's in the heart of wine country. It's a pretty big conference. Go ahead. Prediction. I think in many cases. Put your hands on my pages, but actually. Chickens that it's not realistic, but. Detect such. That's one aspect of fraud.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
So. Let me just elaborate on types of fraud. There's a recently there's a category of publishers there called cybersquatters or typo squatters or domain name bandits, and basically what they do is they will go and purchase a domain and. They domain names will be made up of common typos online when you go to your browser and you type in the address in your browser, you might have a typo and it'll just by doing that it will bring you over to this domain. They will populate this domain or this site with ads and maybe some content, some useless content and. Basically, these sites may also have click robots and so they will generate clicks on their sites and and by generating clicks they generate revenue and so sometimes it's very difficult to detect this and certainly there's a lot of click fraud that goes undetected. Anne and so. People use data mining alot to capture some of these patterns. And. It's a I think it's people are living in denial when they say click fraud is not a problem and I think some of the big ad networks will. Then I click. Fraud is a big problem. They will say it's maybe one or 2% instead of 20 or 30%. But there's no there. There are many startups who claim that they have all the solutions to click fraud. But I have yet to see a good solution. What about other things? Other markets like for example, the boy P? Services, do you think that we can? 4C or so. At my conversations with advertisements in employee for example. Absolutely. I mean, there's. So. I guess publishers you can view publishers as real estate online and people are continuously finding avenues to generate real estate. So more recently you've had a wave of videos like YouTube and this is just another way of generating real estate. Quite in the next year or so, you're going to have IPTV and there again, it's another opportunity to monetize and generate lots of real estate where you can. Present ads to consumers so that via voice over IP is also an opportunity. OK. Yeah.
