But I also worked as a lecturer at the Kenya Medical Training College in Nairobi, Kenya and Principe Lectro for the mortgage programs. I'm also a research fellow at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. OK, so I'm working with Sally, Sally's technical lead for open education for I heart program at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and Deon is director of the Community I Heart Institute at the University of Cape Town in South Africa. How does this link to SDGS? So what did we aim to do? We aim to increase access to open education on control of VR. By reducing the transactional distance between educators on one hard and the people who need the education that is the health workers like. We also know that there are barriers that prevent the patient from seeking care. OK, so patient empowerment fadley to understand the health care provider in terms of what is a multidisciplinary team, what are the barriers or health care provider may face in providing these services then to understand the health system? If you have a weak health system like in most low resource settings, then you have poor health outcomes. We already have arrangements there, but it is open to be used in other parts of the world and there will be institutional accreditation. So it was really exciting to see the opportunity and licking me with mentors. It has helped me to think of things that I would not have thought of or to see things in a different manner because I don't have expertise in the areas that my mentors have expertise and they have also linked me to other people whose expertise has been helpful. Um? Been doing the research of identified gaps that needed such a cost, so I would say it has been a good entry point to developing this. I've used appear if you have sent the materials to peers to have a look mainly to get their input and also as an aspect of quality assurance. They have raised some issues I had not thought about, so those are facilitators. When I said I've developed discussed mention was happy they said we can make more money from this course and I said no, this is going to be a free cause and they're like why they like. It's a catalyst, so catalyst that helps you to walk faster. Targeting or customizing the content for a particular audience. So it's a crucial aspect. Alot of time went into the learning this developmental learning design, not just the materials. It is something that we can share the process. How did we do it so that other people do not have to have a very stiff learning curve? So we plan to run the course. And also assess the benefits of the costs, what what, what bearing does it have on training outcomes and performance of the health workers? We we also want to develop additional courses. So we have seen that trans contextual use of open education resources is possible. But what is this diabetic retinopathy or Dr? Diabetes has many complications, and as the duration of diabetes increases, so does the risk of complications. We have blindness because of diabetic retinopathy. OK, so why this course? So we have inequities in access to healthcare. The same thing for training. OK. To further illustrate why we need this course. So access to IKEA is affected by several things including performance gaps among healthcare workers and some of the performance gaps.