This is tutorial on using different data mining techniques for anomaly detection and this is a joint work with people from University of Minnesota rivals. We will cover different aspects of anomaly detection and different applications. Also, if you have labels available only from the normal data we're talking about, semi supervised anomaly detection techniques. And in this case you usually basing your decision, your algorithms on the assumption that the normal is a very rare compared to the normal data, and they are different from the majority of other data here. Also, we're talking about three different types of anomalies, point anomalies, contextual and collective. So what actually point anomalies? So another term that we introduced this collective anomalies. So usually in this case you have to look at collection of related data instances and to consider them as a normal is for example in this case this is ECG data from the beating of your heart. So again, this is also applicable to sequential data spatial data and graph data. And finally, how you get how you evaluate these anomaly detection techniques. For example, if you have a network intrusion. The problem, and let's assume you have 99 Percent 99.9% of your data is is normal and 0.1 correspond to certain computer intrusions or computer attacks. And if you're just using the trivial classifiers saying that everything is the normal, you will achieve 99.9% accuracy. But obviously that's wrong, so that's why people constructing this confusion matrix. People construct recall, which is like the ratio of true positive over the true positive plus false negative. Most typical way is to use this formula here. Drowning in the data, but at the same time we are starving for the knowledge. It begins and however, in spite of this large amounts of data, particular instances are still quite rare and this instances may may have a dramatic influence. People also use terms and metrics like detection rate and false alarm rate, so detection rate is defined in the same way as recall. Its rate is basically how many times I predicted something incorrectly. So these are the typical curves for RC. I like to mention at network intrusion detection, their applications of different fraud detection like credit card fraud, insurance fraud. Anomalisa extremely important to detect some events like the life package at the airport and something suspicious. So intrusion detection as I said. You're trying to monitor the computer network in order or computer system. The network for certain interactions and interactions are usually defined as attempts to bypass the security of a computer or the network, and there are typical challenges in network intrusion, texture world, some of them that most of interest rebate. We did. Most of the people using signature based intrusion detection systems. They have the signatures, full computer tags that are known so far, but obvious disadvantage of this. Mention briefly about fraud detection. Insurance claim you may claim that you lossed other people stole something for you, but that's not actually the case or mobile cell phone fraud. If you lose the cell phone and someone else is trying to use that instead of you. Fraudulent transactions and misclassification cost is very high if you don't say something is intrusion, you may actually the, for example, credit card company may lose a lot of money. Rare class or anomalies can be available and in this case misclassification cost is very high. I mentioned earlier that there are extremely important problems in industrial damage detection and decisional involving engineering health applications. You don't know what is anomaly. And detecting anomalous events require usually immediate intervention, and again, the cost here is extremely high, because if you missed this certain anomaly and this really correspond to failure in this case of aviation safety, you may use the hundreds of lives. I mentioned that people tried to use recently different anomaly detection techniques in image processing and video surveillance, so. So using anomaly detection techniques can be here very, very important. OK, so this is a taxonomy of anomaly detection techniques that is also published in a survey by our group. So we try to. So we have this point anomaly detection when you're trying to basically find individual data records as anomalies. You have certain nearest neighbor based techniques. So physical approaches and you have some other techniques which include information theory based spectral composition. And of course we already mentioned all of this. If you have real time system you have to have an online anomaly detection and sometimes. OK, so I'll start with explaining briefly the classification based techniques. The main idea is to build classification model for both normal and anomalous behavior. So. Anomaly and you have to. Low. Also, since you have both normal and normally, you can achieve pretty high accuracy in detecting these events. Obvious kind of disadvantages include that in both cases you require. This is sometimes not feasible because in order to label this data, let's say you have millions of data records. The drawback of supervised classification techniques they can usually. So what is actually anomaly anomaly is better in data that does not belong to like regular behavior does not belong to expected behavior from your data. For example, when you try to catch the hackers in your computer network or on your computer, credit card fraud detection when out of millions of credit card transactions that people do all over the world. Some people steal credit card and use in fraudulent purposes. There are some typical techniques for supervised classification, so people. Either oversampling undersampling I'll talk briefly about this. People also did different kind of rule based techniques. And people also try different kind of the neural network support vector machines, Bayesian networks approaches. Either you're trying to, when you selecting the data from the normal class you are trying to do the near Miss examples. Idea and also there is a recent approach by Nokia. May characterize the normal behavior. Also some people try to associate anomalous data records that occur in fewer frequent itemsets compared to the normal data record. For example, in Decision tree learning, in this case specific feature waiting for each rare class test example you have to replace global late vector with dynamically generated rate vector depends on the path taken by that example and also in this another approach case specific role rating is. That will cover most of examples in this region in this region. This enrolls gives high accuracy and significant support, and piano can give really good results when you're dealing with this kind of imbalance datasets. He used the ripple down rules which is some form of decision tree in basically in which every node has a protective role associated with this. So this ripple down rules specialized genetic specialist genetic form. So basically in panel at the model you have two phases here basically for every of these. You're basically using this ripple down rules to cover most of the positive examples and basically by doing this you will overfit the training data and as a result you will get a binary tree where each node is. Characterized by the rule. People also use different forms of support vector classifiers to detect intrusions. This approach bystanders that normal data records can belong to high density data regions, while the data from the data basically that correspond to normalize correspond to low density data regions and then he used unsupervised approach to learn high density and low density data regions and then he used the standard support vector machines to classify this data density level. So basically they use modify classification at the model to represent normal behavior only an older version from this normal behavior may correspond to anomalies. So people use different approaches. People use neural networks, support vector machines, so Markov model based approaches, which can be extremely good if you have temporal data and you're trying to capture the transitions between the sequences. Form of neural network which is called replicator neural network. So you put your input data here this input layer. The same data is the data on the input. So the idea here is to measure the difference between. So people use different techniques and but the most common approach is basically to separate the entire set of training data from the origin here and to find a small region where the most of the data allocated. So basically specify how many outlets we expect and also you are specifying the variance of our RBF kernel, radial basis function, the criminal if you're. If your variance is getting bigger, you don't need that many support vectors, but again, your model can be two general. These are real world anomalies. OK, so we came to the second type of anomaly detection techniques, which are called the nearest neighbor based techniques, and in this approach is usually you have. Two major approaches. Roaches so as I said, the key assumption is that the normal points have. And then you're trying to analyze the neighborhood in order to determine whether the data record correspond to normally or not. There are two major approaches, distance based then. Is the point that are too far from everything else and density based methods. Type of techniques that belong to the city to distance based techniques and nearest neighbor based techniques. And the point is, in data set is considered as outlier if at least some fraction P. That especially here of the points in datasets lights greater than distance D. Also specify here from certain .0. Using this approach intensity based approach. Are computed and then you define all the instances that lie in this low density regions as potential anomalies. So basically for each data point, first step is to compute the distance from the Kate closes point. And they can be on the top of the list. However, this technique is not suitable for datasets that have mode switch wearing at the density. And if you want to compute the distance only, the distance from point P2 to the closest point is this line here something like this? The distance from Point P3 to the closest point is something like that. Here P through kind of belongs to this sparse region, so you can see that computing only the distance may not be sufficient to detect what is anomaly. First step is to compute the distance to the Kate Clauses point is the same as the distance based approach. For if you have one point and you define the Kate at the distance you are constructing the hyper sphere with radius of Cade distance for all the points that are inside of this hypersphere. The third step is to compute local reachability density, and this is defined as the inverse of the. If you live in Texas or somewhere else, your neighborhood sparse. This big groups of data N1 and N2 that correspond to normal behavior points that do not conform to this normal behavior. Some of them are using the rare class mining summarize using chance discovery. People use novelty detection, exception mining, noise removal and recently there is a book but nothing solid. So what are the key challenges when you're doing a anomaly detection? When you're trying to detect anomalous subsequences. So there are several aspects of anomaly detection that we will try to cover here. But I'll explain what this means, output what kind of output general election algorithm is providing to you and also how you do evaluation of anomaly detection techniques.