So what I'd like to begin with this talk about how I evolve the term critical spatial practice. 1003 to 6 I was dealing with the distinction between multidisciplinarity. And interdisciplinarity, so multidisciplinarity was often used to talk about projects which are trying to solve problems and bringing together experts to work together using disciplinary skills to solve a problem that still goes on. Barbara was very interested in the idea of ambivalence within Interdisciplinarity and a constant movement between what he calls pedagogical and performative address. Unconscious sorts of action that carried the groups desire. A dimension opposite and complementary to the structures that generate pyramidal hierarchy isation. He worked in a very experimental hospital called Labourd, which which critiqued traditional psychoanalysis and what he discovered. Add soldiers, work again and who I mentioned earlier and what the geographers had been trying to do in the early 90s was to reassert space into critical social theory, so a Marxist geographers would say in the West this is very much a Western Marxist project. And this was in the UK at least called the spatial turn of the 1990s. And then if we reassert time into critical spatial practice, it's stating the obvious that the spatial must be thought of in relation to the temporal. Now ambient ambulant direct DIY, instant insurgent, and of course there are many more. At detail, strategy and thinking about how do you develop a citywide strategy when you're fascinated by the detail of things? If you're driven by the urge to formulate strategic so here strategic, not tactical, but strategic proposals for the future, and she describes how months work develops the particular to the general and back again to the particular. I think very relevant for people who are involved in teaching and in practice thinking about how we operate between these scales. These kinds of projects operated at what I called a triple crossroads between theory and practice between public and private and between art and architecture and in the book I go through a discussion of where we were at and in that moment which was, you know, 2003, four, 5 in terms of how these debates were being played out, privatization of public space, which seems to be honest, pretty benign. The critical, the spatial, and the interdisciplinary.