[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you so much Ruska an Matthias, for such nice introduction. Thank you all very much for coming. Partly it took two years, not because I'm always always rushing around, but also because in the certain times of year, like I think we all need to. I try and take rest periods. I think we were very busy in the kind of culture, cultural practice and it's important to rest as well. So sometimes I go into hibernation so that I can rest and and.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I'm very, very happy to be here this evening, so thank you to the Museum of Architecture and Design and the Eagles Able Association for inviting me. It's been interesting already talking a little bit more this morning with people about all the work that's going on here in relation to the arts, architecture, crossover and also this interest Matteo mentioned of in in the political which I massively share, especially in terms of being an educator. Of young architects and. Last time I was in this museum, I was lucky enough to see a wonderful exhibition which was on the history of architecture in Yugoslavia in the 50s and so on. It was an amazing exhibition. I'm sure many of you here maybe were part of curating it or at least saw it. And that was my first real education into the history of architecture here and then. These ideas of self self managed schemes as well, which I found interesting and that was also. A time when I came to speak about Yasmina Seabats work and got to know her and her amazing work. So I'm very much excited about this new book that's going to come out and that I will be part of your fuel discussion. Really on art and architecture. So that makes me very happy. Thank you. So what I'd like to do today. Apologies as you can see, even my pronunciation of Slovenian words is not so great. It will be in English. There will be no Slovenian moments I'm afraid. I it's it's going to be a long time. I've managed to get a couple of words now, so I hope that everyone I've met you. Your English is impeccable, so hopefully the pace will be OK. And then we'll have time to talk through some of the ideas afterwards. So what I'd like to begin with this talk about how I evolve the term critical spatial practice. For my earlier introduction of it as a concept in 2003 where I was trying to indicate an interest in the critical and the spatial aspects of interdisciplinary processes that operated between art and architecture, and then I will move on to talk more about my current practice of what I call site writing and also my interest in temporality and in urban issues around regeneration, particularly in London. Housing regeneration and development. So if we just go.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Back in time a little bit, I'm not sure many of you know me or not know my background so it's worth saying a few things about that. So my initial training is actually in architectural design. I worked in social housing and I worked in a feminist architectural cooperative in the 90s. And then I moved to become more of an academic, doing a Masters and PhD in architectural history. So I think my interest in spatial construction influences the work that I did initially. As an architectural historian and then more as a as a critic and theorist. And the early work that I did I was already really interested in spatial practice in two ways in how feminist theory had shifted, it was possible for feminist theory to shift the methodology or practice of architectural history, and I feel very strongly that history writing is a form of practice, but also within. This was my first work on 1820s London I was also studying something called rambling. Which is defined as the pursuit of pleasure, and that was also a spatial practice that I discuss in the book as a gendered spatial practice and the Rambler, which I won't go.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Into tonight but still really fascinates me, was this 1820s male figure that explored the city in search of pleasure and was a kind of precursor in many ways to the much more famous Upper Isean Flanner.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Around around that time of finishing up my PhD, I was introduced to site specific practice. When I was invited to Chelsea College of Art and Design to teach on and then later direct their MA in the theory and practice of public art and design. I quickly became really fascinated by public art by what seemed to me to be a highly unstable form of practice which insisted on locating itself between fine art and spatial design. And two years later, I was invited to guest edit a special issue with this Journal. The public art Journal, and I decided to bring together artists and designers who were working in the area of spatial practice with writers coming out of geography and cultural studies who were interested in spatial theory.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
In 2003 I came up with this term critical spatial practice to try and describe projects located between art and architecture, as well as the standpoints that theory offers for playing out disciplinary definitions, and I developed the concept further in this book from 2006 called Art and Architecture, a place between what I was trying to do was explore a series of projects located between art and architecture. Defined as critical spatial practice since they both critique the sites into which they intervened, as well as the disciplinary procedures through which they operated. So in a sense, that was my criteria of selection for the projects that I discuss in the book I argued.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
These kinds of projects operated at what I called a triple crossroads between theory and practice between public and private and between art and architecture and in the book I go through a discussion of where we were at and in that moment which was, you know, 2003, four, 5 in terms of how these debates were being played out, privatization of public space, which seems to be honest, pretty benign. When we look back at it. Now from where we're at today, which is a far more. Serious situation, in fact we were discussing how some kind of activities of privatisation are actually criminal acts at this point. Debates around theory and practice of shifted massively. I think they're much more intersecting today and then the discussion on art and architecture which will go on and talk about more what I wanted to do was take apart this binary distinction between art and architecture, where architecture is somehow functional and artist, decorative and re figure that relationship.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
To do that, I wanted to put into play three different terms. The critical, the spatial, and the interdisciplinary. So for me, the critical. Comes out of the definition that was introduced from early Frankfurt School critical theorists, and this is really important because I think the critical is used in many different ways and I wanted to be absolutely specific about the definition. So for me critical criticality involves self reflection, but also an really important Lee. The desire for political change for social change so many people use the critical to only talk about self reflection, but I'm taking it also to me. Pushing towards social change and also projects that transform seek to transform rather than just describe. So I've taken issue with a lot of people's questioning or saying that quick critical, the critical doesn't go far enough. They see it as negative or perhaps quite passive, but for me the critical is always about transformation. It's not simply an action of negation or description. The spatial is also very important, and here I was drawing onto writers. French writers Michelle DeSoto and Unreal a fair few. Of course, I'm sure being in the spatial disciplines you're well aware of assaulting their work is very, very relevant today, and I wanted to make a distinction between what Michelle DeSoto calls strategies which aim to maintain and re for social and existing spatial orders and those tactics which critique and questioning. Then question them, so perhaps that sounds a little bit to binary. I actually think in his work it's it's more complex than that, and I certainly think if we were to look at, for example, military strategies that have been adopted and tactics since the time that I wrote this Berkel since the time DeSoto was writing, I think we see the interplay of the strategic and tactical in a much more dynamic way. But nonetheless, I think what I wanted to to pull out with the idea of practices that don't try and maintain the social order. But try and question them and redefine them, and perhaps introduce new ways of working and then the interdisciplinary which I will come back to a bit later. But I was very interested in practices that wanted to transgress the limits of their particular discipline and to explore the possibilities of processes that were emergent and they operated between the disciplines.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
In the book, I was particularly interested in the work of the postmodern so called postmodern geographer at Soldier, and his idea of a spatial try, electric of space, time, and social being. So I wanted to arrange this thinking about art and architecture around these terms. So.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
In terms of the spatial between, it might be between here and there, so I was interested in rustling crisis idea of the expanded field and I spoke.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Typically looked at. On questions around site non site off site, for example Smithson's work, but particularly around curatorial practices that were often dispersed across sites operating outside the Gallery, like the commissioning agents Arte.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Angel, this is what must become a very, very important work by then, which was which they curated by Jeremy Deller called the Battle of Orgreave, which some of you may know about, which was a reenactment of the minor strike from 1984, so it becomes a very important piece of Labor history.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
I was also interested in temporality and here I was working with the ideas of Walter Benjamin around the dialectical image and thinking about the exact kind of juxtaposition that happens when we intervene into urban space. Are we creating?

[377.0s - 406.0s]
The kind of shock tactics of montage, or actually is there more reflective time of something that Benjamin looked at. Another form of dialectical image, which wasn't the shock of montage, but the allegory, the slow time of reflection of allegory.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And then in the final section, I was really focusing on the social and looking at the relationship between people in the production an the use and experience of works. So of course Berio's idea. How was his work had just been translated into English relational Aesthetics at that time were still and still it's I have to say not fully taken up within architecture though artist moved quite way beyond it. I would say by now. But I wanted to tie that back. I don't think really Berio should be given all the credit for relational work. There are people who came much earlier.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Joseph Voice, for one of his ideas of social sculpture and probably.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
You know really? Key artist Merle Edelman ukulele ease. Who did a lot of this work, which these very few traces of a project she did called Touch Sanitation, where she shook the hands of every person collecting waste in New York and that was the project to make contact with with waste collectors.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
In one of the chapters I look at the work of Art architecture collaborative practice called Math, which some of you may have heard of. And this was a very early piece by Moffett was probably a kind of foundational work for them. They've gone and done many other amazing projects which you could look at their website if you're interested in their work, but what they were trying to do was adapt. Process is from conceptual art. One of the practitioners is the conceptual artist to demonstrate the architectural design. Processes are not only activities that lead to the making of products, but also that the process could be the location of work in itself. So the idea that the process is the work is not. Unusual within fine art practice, but it's less usual for that to be the case in architecture and in an early project that they did in Hanley are in the Midlands. They took their initial brief which was to make lifting barrier to prevent illegal traffic entering the town centre as part of a bigger urban regeneration project, and they started questioning whether actually this was the best way of going about regeneration and they opened the brief. Out into dialogues with the Council and planners to reveal a much more subtle way of thinking about how art could contribute to a safer and more social environment. So this is absolutely a hallmark of their practice. They always take the brief that they are given and they critique it and change it and develop it and work with people to do that and to start with. They were highly criticised for not producing large scale buildings. You know, people in the press were, oh, these these people call themselves architects, but they don't produce buildings, but actually they do now produce buildings and quite large scale open designs. But they do it in a way where they take very, very seriously. These so called. Stakeholders within a project and the process they're working in. So with this particular project where the outcome was this ceramic bench they worked in close.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Aberration with armatage Shanks so armatage Shanks are the makers of bathroom, where you know toilets and basins and so on. And the benches which were positioned around white birches and roses were patterned with oversized fragments of a dinner plate design, which was particular to that local area.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So this is the kind of pattern made larger that was often seen on plates in the area, which has a very strong tradition of ceramic production, and so they worked with ceramic.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Producers to come up with this new design. What they say about the what they say about the project, which I really like. It was called Pleasure Garden of the utility's, was we wanted to reveal this as the place where the hands of the person you sit next to on the bus, or pass in the street at the hands of the person who shaped the plate from which you eat their dinner, your dinner. And that's very typical of muff to be thinking about human relations in that way.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So when I published the book back in 2006, I try to think of these different approaches to critical spatial practice and what intrigues me today. 10 years, at least on is how the debate has reformulated in many different ways, so I just want to perhaps talk about four different adjustments, a couple a bit more conceptual and a couple are a bit more kind of practical.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So one is really around the use of the terms multi Inter and transdisciplinarity so I don't know how many people work with those terms or what your what. Your views and thoughts are but back in 2.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
1003 to 6 I was dealing with the distinction between multidisciplinarity. And interdisciplinarity, so multidisciplinarity was often used to talk about projects which are trying to solve problems and bringing together experts to work together using disciplinary skills to solve a problem that still goes on. But interdisciplinary work was very different, which was actually about trying to critique the procedures of a project, so it didn't have such a practical outcome. It was more self critical, and more critical, actually, of the ideologies that are often at work in structuring. In structuring disciplines and my interest in Interdisciplinarity was very much pushed by the work of the postcolonial theorist or me Baba and the French feminist theorist Julia Kristeva on me. Barbara was very interested in the idea of ambivalence within Interdisciplinarity and a constant movement between what he calls pedagogical and performative address. So what he means is that interdisciplinarity is a space where emergent practices can come through. And Julia Kristeva noted that Interdisciplinarity was a site where expressions of resistance are latent. She argued that there was a tendency to jealously protect one's own disciplines and that specialists didn't teach their students to construct a diagonal axis in their methodology, and I still think although the development of interdisciplinarity is pretty uneven, some places have taken it up, others not so much. I think what she's writing there is very important because it points to the emotional aspect of interdisciplinary work and how people might feel threatened by people from outside coming into their discipline. Also, how competence, which is often something that in the professions we take as very, very important specialism and competence. How that actually has to be broken apart if you're learning and you discipline, and you have to trust the unknown rather than the no. So it's actually quite demanding work and that's why I think it's sometimes quite different from multidisciplinarity, but we have to give up the safety of competence and specialism for the fears of inability and failure. The experience of interdisciplinary work produces a potentially destabilizing engagement with existing power structures, allowing the emergence of untested knowledge and uncertain understanding.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So if interdisciplinary is concerned with working in a place between disciplines in order to understand and question their edges and their borders, more recently, the term transdisciplinarity has entered the frame, and it's often described as a more horizontal movement concerned with moving across transversally, so it's derived from the Latin preposition trans meaning across. Or beyond or over and it can give this sense of a movement from one place or personal thing or state to another.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The cultural critic who's written Garrigan Osco, who's written an amazing kind of commentary really on the work of Felix Gatari, points out in a very interesting history of guitare that the interdisciplinarity of 1968 was compromised. It relied too much on the disciplines in which it was located and served to strengthen rather than question their dominance, so was very interesting to me. A lot of the times that. These different terms are used there used in the contemporary as if they don't have a history, but actually the history of interdisciplinarity is becoming a quite an important project and get Ari was very critical of the way that it was used in 68, saying that what was happening was actually serving to bound and strengthen the disciplines that the Inter was between, and so he favored transdisciplinarity because he felt that it held the potential of a much more radical critique. In his own philosophy was linked to trans verse Alati, which he described as an unconscious action. Unconscious sorts of action that carried the groups desire. A dimension opposite and complementary to the structures that generate pyramidal hierarchy isation. So guitar is obviously doing a lot of his writing with dollars, but what makes him very distinct from Dillard's is he was a practicing psychiatrist and he was a activist as well. Political activist. He worked in a very experimental hospital called Labourd, which which critiqued traditional psychoanalysis and what he discovered. There was that what was really important about transversal ways of working. 'cause they brought the sort of background of bureaucracies and ways of working into the foreground for critique. So what happened at the board was the you know, cooks, cleaners, doctors, patients would all swap duties. I think the only duty that wasn't really swapped was a very specific psychoanalytic treatment, but a lot of the other duties in the hospital were exchanged in a system called the grid. So when he's writing about this, it sounds highly theorized. But actually it came from his practice as a radical psychiatrist. So with critical spatial practice prioritizes the role of the interdisciplinary defined as a place between disciplines. That was how I titled the book in order to provide a critique of existing methods, including artistic projects, which adopt architectural prod processes. Architectural works which drawn fine art approaches as well as art and architecture collaborations. How might the between of interdisciplinarity relate to the across of Transdisciplinarity? I think I just kind of leave. That really is an open question for me. I have sort of shifted more towards the trans, but that's partly really because of my readings of gitari and the work that I've been doing in my own institution where I've become quite critical of the financialization of universities in the UK and had to be very critical of management structures. And so I found Guitaris work about what it means to bring what apparently seem neutral bureaucracies into the foreground for critique very, very important. In my own work.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
The second adjustment is really to do with time. This is the image that I'm not really sure I'm allowed to use. Yeah, I took it in the amazing museum in in Castle when I went to the last documentor, which is a Museum of sun clocks. I don't know if anyone's ever visited. It's a fantastic space. And so time I think time is very important, and perhaps I overlooked time a bit in the art and architecture book.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Back several years ago now, I was invited to do Aquino, a conference called One Day sculpture in New Zealand, which was curated by Claire Dockerty and David Cross and that encouraged me to think again about some really key spatial terms and to ask the question what occurs when time comes to the fore rather than space and what was very interesting about this program where Claire came across from the UK. She's the curator of a project called Situations in Bristol. She's now just being made curator of the Arnolfini Gallery there, but she was asked to work with a whole series of gallery's and curators across New Zealand, and they each commissioned 1 one day sculpture and what was very important to Claire was that this was not about sculpture becoming performance or becoming durational art or theater. It was actually about how do you rethink sculpture and the sculptural object within the frame of 24 hours. So there was some really. The interesting ways of responding to that which you can. There's a very good book that's come out. And so that got me thinking a little bit more about time and it.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Me thinking about. Add soldiers, work again and who I mentioned earlier and what the geographers had been trying to do in the early 90s was to reassert space into critical social theory, so a Marxist geographers would say in the West this is very much a Western Marxist project. Took issue with the idea that the dialectical process of processes of historical materialism history was the active element shaping social production. And that space was this passive background, so their whole project was really about to re assert space into historical materialism. To think about the spatial dialectic.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
And this was in the UK at least called the spatial turn of the 1990s. Many geographers like David Harvey, Doreen Massey, as well as Soldier looked to the work of LA Fave and this idea that an of the socio spatial dialectic that space creates social relations. But social relations also inform space and this production and representation of space, but I think.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
We're seeing now is much more valorization of the relational and the performative. Some people have called this robot, for example. I'm not sure if she coined the term, but certainly the idea of a performative term. Well, the relational and the performative can't really be theorized or practiced without reference to time. So I think that noticing time again, not necessarily the time of history from historical materialism, but other kinds of temporalities history. But others, too, has big implications for spatial practice. Emphasizing which I think again I overlooked in the book, that practice is a process. So it's nothing if not time based to practice is a verb. Verbs are actions they make or take place overtime, So what?

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And then if we reassert time into critical spatial practice, it's stating the obvious that the spatial must be thought of in relation to the temporal. Yeah, what we're considering here is not only time's history. But really, trying to think through other temporal modality so flow flux, duration, ephemerality event. And So what becomes interesting to me now is the temporality of site specificity. Like at what point is the IS is is a time is is a work most timely in some cases and I think with the speed up that we're seeing of neoliberal processes, particularly development in cities, this becomes very pressing. So this time based focus I think would be a particularly appropriate way of thinking through my Third Point or adjustment, which is a reflection on how the dynamic of work in this area is currently at its most vibrant in relation to urbanism, to resistance to neoliberal patterns of regeneration. The need to reconstruct after disaster, to examine alternative kinds of planning. And reflecting on the work.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And so these are maybe some of the terms that are being used. Maybe you have others that are circulating here. Around different kinds of urban urbanism. Now ambient ambulant direct DIY, instant insurgent, and of course there are many more.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Reflecting back on the work of Muff, the Art Architecture Collaborative, I mentioned the architectural critic who unfortunately isn't with us anymore. She died way too early sadly. Cath Schonfield made these very interesting observations I think on on on months work. Thinking about what she called. A formula DS very typical of the way that path would work. At detail, strategy and thinking about how do you develop a citywide strategy when you're fascinated by the detail of things? How can you make something small scale in the here and now? If you're driven by the urge to formulate strategic so here strategic, not tactical, but strategic proposals for the future, and she describes how months work develops the particular to the general and back again to the particular. And she frames this through a spatial turn. Of course, this is a you know, very much a process that's thinking about scale. I think very relevant for people who are involved in teaching and in practice thinking about how we operate between these scales. But I think it's also clear that maybe these other terms, like the ambulance, the ambient, the direct, the instant really also highlight. A different kind of need for for temporality so so cathles. Writing this in 2001 in the in the only book, unfortunately that there's been on months work or this is what we do. A muff manual but I think now we need to really think. We think detail and strategy through the through the temporal in fine art.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Debates around the critical often coalesce in the term institutional critique. Following do shrooms questioning of the aesthetic criteria used to categorize objects of art and a strand of conceptual practice which was developed most famously perhaps through Merla Leiderman nucleus, whose worker showed earlier but also through hands Hacker and Michael Asher in 60s and 70s and the art critic Benjamin Buchloh called this institutional critique. But the Swedish curator Maria Lind has much more recently put forward the idea of constructive institutional critique. And she uses this to describe the work of Appolonia shushtar sick yeah OK and others which she say offers a proposal for change based on the dialogue between the artist and the institution rather than an inherent conflict. So I think.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Colonial's work is very important here, and I know many of you know her. She's working with people here. I think she's quite an inspiration in the way that she works across our art and architecture and how opposition in her work becomes productive and generates new forms of interchange. So a whole series of projects which I don't want to run through here, but I just want to kind of flag her up. Is that what I think an important practitioner for working in this way so the different projects she did like? The Nonstop Video Club kind of interactions between people for creating alternative types of cinema, venue and collecting and watching films.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Later projects, which I'm now thinking, perhaps this is one that you've been involved in. Ask a prototype for self organized economic unit. Bonnie Dundee and meeting place in the garden and garden service. So a lot of projects that bring in gardening and economy and different kinds of activity, formal and informal, very.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
There in her work that she's interested in planning, so these aren't only projects that just operate in the particular setting, there often thinking ahead to how they could inform long-term planning process is projects like suggestion for the day, City, lounge, home design service as a whole series, and I wrote a much longer essay about looking at her work as a form of critical spatial practice in the in the monograph that was published by Sternberg Price. And probably most.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Recently, her hush that project evolves over a much longer time frame than any of the other ones that I've shown slides of, and it I think it gains a kind of credence from a slow slow time with the designed artifacts operating less as well intended props for action that are put in place by the artist and more like accretions, whether physical structures appear overtime to have grown into and out of a community. So the interesting problematic here, I think, is how an open ended artistic practice could inform and guide the more predetermined discipline of planning in ways that can allow for the unpredictability of the future.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
So just a few.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
You can look up some of this project.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Persona. Large housing estate and engage.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Different parts of the community in.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Remaking community, I mean in many ways it has strong parallels with the work of doing Petrescu, who you may know Romanian architect based in Paris in Sheffield and in fact I think Appolonia in diner have worked together so.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Another practice that I just want to mention. Who practiced very nearby in in Vienna? But I think have also done. Certainly done works on the Slovenian within Slovenia are trans parody, so I don't know if you know Trance Paradiso. So they comprise architect trained artist. So Barbara Hollow and the architect urban designer pull Russia Kovic and they do a whole series of projects using a complex assembly of artifacts and events with other professionals, clients, planners, user groups, urban citizens. And they try and engage with the roles of both artists and architects. And try and combine different attitudes to urbanism that are held by art, architecture and planning by developing new kinds of methods which are critical and questioning but also playful. This was a project in Chile where they used to get the game format. In fact, many of their projects use games as starting points for discussion.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
And this project called Commons come Tollison from 2011. They invited the public to pay a game called Tangram.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Which required all 7 flat shapes or tans to be put together in a specific shape and while people were playing this game they could discuss vital topics concerning the city in its.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Future. And they erected a pavilion in the old and licensed Town Park on Orchard, which functioned as a Commons to store.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Large 10 pieces.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
And the pieces were then sold as a limited addition of art objects, with the proceeds going directly back to Leeson and the local population to be used to support events to take place in what would be the empty pavilion. Once all the pieces had been had been sold. So for them in this project, the economy becomes really important. Part of it, what can they kind of give back? And how can money as part of the exchange work, and another project which?

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Is it also a very interesting project? But I think highlights often the difficulty of bringing out complex processes in architecture. Social processes is a project they did cost at the layer which was a urban design competition for Salzburg, which was one and realized between 2006 and 11. And this was a project that included 149 apartments for adjacent areas of public housing, but also other kinds of spaces, subsidized ground floor spaces, which would declare which were dedicated to public and cultural activity. So NGOs and Community groups, adult education, kindergarten studio building and cafe.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
To August. Show a few.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Images of this, and I think I mean it's it's something that maybe we could discuss more at something that we certainly we talk a lot about in in the courses that I teach at the apartment, this problem of how you make the list, the process of this project was incredibly complex, but it's very, very difficult to excavate that process and all the negotiations that they made to get these subsidized units for people and the social housing and so on. When when you look at the final piece of architectural design so. In a way I think I might skip along 'cause I'm aware that time is running, running out as it always seems to these days. I suppose it's projects like this and others that have made me just think a little bit more about what the role of the architectural critic should be and that really the role of the architectural critic should not simply be a discussion of the aesthetic merits of an architectural form. I don't think that goes far enough.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
So when I was writing the art and architecture book, I that was the first time I really started to think about, well, what is a critic? What is criticism? And I was writing about other peoples forms of site specific and situated practice, but I hadn't started to think that actually criticism is also a form of situated practice. It doesn't take place in a blank terrain. It takes place as a series of situations really that occur whether the critic decides to. Talk to the artist or the curator or the architect. Whether they're only talking to the users of the work afterwards, how they situate themselves is an invitation. Is it a paid piece of writing? Is it for free? Is it part of a collaborative? All these kind of background things to go back to get Ari about the economy. If you like of criticism, become really quite important, but not only that, I think what also becomes interesting is that we have to go. And this was a conversation that came out of. That discussion we had, we've been having a lot over the last few weeks, actually, in relation to Trump and Brexit and the rise of a kind of right wing fascism that really plays on the emotions is the ideological critique is clearly not enough. We have to work with the register of affect and emotion and we have to bring that in to critical writing. So something I try and.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
So in what I call site writing, which is a form of situated criticism, is try and. Interpret art and architecture, but perform this interpretation for someone else to try and remake an artifact in words and to question the terms of criticism. So quite often, the terms of criticism will be things like judgment, discrimination, and that you must be critically distant through objective from the from the project that you're discussing, which I disagree with very, very strongly. I'm interested in how criticisms of practicing gauges. Emotions as well as ideologies, concepts and also material conditions. So the literary critic Isabelle Armstrong, in writing about close and distant reading, brings up the difference between a criticism of affect and a criticism of analysis. And she says that it's actually really important to combine these two to combine the close and the distant. And this is obviously very close to perhaps the work of feminist Donna Haraway who argued for an idea of situated subjectivity or the idea of situated objectivity as well. The objectivity is not just a neutral condition, it's actually a cited condition.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
So I'm really interested in how. The judgment that we might make about a work I don't completely give up on the idea of making some kind of judgment, but the position of judgment is something that is advanced through the process of criticism. It doesn't happen in advance, it happens through the process that criticism is an imminent and immanent, not a transcendent mode of contemporary criticality. And here I'm drawing and working in parallel with Gavin, but who some of you may know his work and also influenced by Howard Caygill's idea of strategic critique. And also very influenced by work from performance studies and particularly the work of Amelia Jones and Andrew Stephenson who take issue with the tradition that the interpreter should be neutral or disinterested in the objects that they judge. They posit instead that the process is reviewing and interpreting involved, what they call entanglement in intersubjective spaces of desire, projection, and identification. Interpretation they all give like the production of works of art, is a mode of communication. Meaning as a process of engagement and never dwells in one place. So I'm going to move on to the.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Very final part of the talk now and actually give a reading of a piece of site writing which tries to be a little bit more interactive. It comes out of.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
A book that I have just come out that we launched last week that's written in three different strands. It looks at architecture, psychoanalysis and it has quite a strongly autobiographical strand called May Morn.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
And that's actually the piece that I'm going to read to you now to end with. I think just to say you probably need to move into a different kind of reading position for this, so I'm moving away a little bit now from a more analytical discussion into something that's more of a poetic register.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
Memor the house is beautiful. A1 story building with a square plan. Born at the birth of modernism in the aftermath of the First World War, in embodies the values of early English modernism of the Arts and Crafts Movement. Truth to materials and honest craftsmanship.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
From the road it looks a little unloved in need of some care and attention up close it's clearly derelict, almost in ruins.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
We enter a room with Windows at each end, curtains are falling away from the runners. The fabric has been soaked overnight and is drying in the spring afternoon sunshine.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
On the window sill and spilling over onto the floor, piles of old magazines, the pages are stuck together and disintegrate. If you try to pull them apart.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
There are some photographs of buildings. One is particularly damp. The corners are soft, the surface is wrinkled. It shows a tower block just completed, empty in pristine amoss green Utopia, the modernist dream dispersing as it soaks up spring rain.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
Longing for the lightness of spray.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
In 2001, the curator Jewels right from the Wapping Project, invited me to write an essay about the work of Elina Brotherus. The piece was called spring. Spring was composed of two installations, a backlit image, untitled, 3 meters by 8 reflected in the water tank on the roof of Wapping showed an illuminated horizon dividing Sky from Earth. The pale grey Sky of Iceland, floating above what was once viscous lava, now covered in green Moss.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
And there was also a triptych rain. The Oak forest and flood projected on screens hung from the ceiling in the boiler house.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
In the first video, the viewer located on the outside of a window watches as rain streams down the outside of the glass.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
The second shows an Oak forest after the rain has stopped. When drop still headed heavy, continue to fall to the ground. What the poet John Betjeman calls secondary.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
The third video is of a flood of forest of elegant trees. Rise silver from the pain of shining water.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
In responding to spring, I found myself returning to scenes. Dreamed and remembered that corresponded with Brother Ocys images and supplemented her landscapes with places of my own. The three places I described made spatial material and visual associations with brother. Assist spring.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
Maskrey

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
The house is beautiful are one story building with a square plan born at the birth of modernism in the aftermath of the First World War, it embodies the values of early English modernism, of the Arts and Crafts Movement, truth to materials and honest craftsmanship from the road, it looks a little unloved in need of some Karen attention and up close it's clearly derelict, almost in ruins. We enter a room with Windows at each end. Curtains are falling away from the runners. The fabric has been soaked overnight. In his drawing in the spring afternoon sunshine on the window sill and spilling over onto the floor, piles of old magazines, the pages are stuck together and disintegrate. If you try to pull them apart, there are some photographs of buildings. One is particularly damp, the corners are soft, the surface is wrinkled. It shows the tower block just completed, empty in pristine amore screen utopia the modernist screen dispersing as it soaks up spring Ray.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
White linen

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
I dreamt at the house last night. My mother's house in South Wales as a place as a child. It was a place where it always rained in the Holidays. But now as it slips away from me, I already begin to miss. I was in the dining room the rest of the house was empty except this one room. The furniture was far too big and covered in linen. The hour stick with silence with the curtains drawn. It was dark, but the linen glowed white. And as I went towards the mantle piece to look look at myself in the mirror, I saw for the first time in the reflection that the room was full of plants, so alive I could smell moisture still on their leaves.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
Bittersweet

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
In Palo fragile, a small town North of Barcelona, on the Costa Brava. Is a derelict court factory with a Clock tower in front. The tower is a handsome steel structure, elegant, robust, but the Clock on top has stopped. Inside the floor is covered in dust and pieces of furniture, lampstands, chairs, and old printing machinery. There are words everywhere scattered all over the floor. Burnt orange, turquoise, black and white bittersweet. We stay in the factory along time. We don't speak, we just walk and look. And later, once we've left the building, he brings something to show me it's a white sign with carefully painted black letters. It reads bittersweet.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
In my screen I remembered a derelict house in the Greenbelt where in spring we found photographs of A brave new world of modernist high rise housing. Just after the autumn equinox. After her death, I dreamt of the shrouded home of my Welsh. Great aren't and white Linnen recalled the presence of life in the form of plants. In this dream, while bittersweet recounted another spring visit, this time to an abandoned Cork factory where we found the names of colors scattered abandoned all over the floor. Black, white. Orange, turquoise, bittersweet. Anticipating the end of Winter Spring opened in Wapping just after the autumn equinox in the Northern Hemisphere, so Curatorial E the work faced the long decline into winter, the season from which it desired to turn away. Paralleling this juxtaposition, which poise Springs hope for. Winters retreat right at its early edge. I positioned Springs, foregrounding of anticipation as a kind of yearning that looks forward to new life. Against my own fascination with the backwards gaze of nostalgia, my 3:00 text, most green, white, linen and bittersweet connected brother Assist landscapes, which are infused with an anticipator belonging to place his tinted by nostalgia. Trying to construct a tension between life and death, rejuvenation and decay are looking forward and a turning backward.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
Memor

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
A spacious one bedroom flat situated on the 8th floor commanding marvelous views of communal gardens and the city beyond. The property is located in a Grade two listed ex local authority block with two newly installed lifts giving easy access to the shopping, restaurants and transport facilities of Bayswater. Circle and district lines and Queens Way Central line plus Overground routes of Paddington. Magnificent Kesling Kensington Gardens are close by.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
This property comprises 2 double bedrooms and offers spacious living accommodation. The property is situated on the third floor and is in very good condition. The flat would be ideal for a first time buyer or a rental investment. It benefits from being close to Roehampton University and local ameneties.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
A well presented bright one bedroom flat on the 6th floor of this grade. Two listed modern block of flats. Service by two lifts. This X Council flat benefits from spacious rooms and communal gardens. The property is offered in good decorative order throughout, further benefiting from being chain free.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
A practical FIBA 3 bedroom flat split over 2 levels on the upper level of this small block in Churchill Gardens. The property consists of two double and one single bedroom Kitchin, reception room, bathroom, separate WC and large balcony. The property requires updating but gives potential buyers the chance to put their own stamp on the property.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
An Unmodernised 2 bedroom flats there on the 1st floor. Lift of this block on the superbly located Horfield estate. Westminster Council in Bayswater.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
Another great located flat for sale. The property offers a well proportioned one bedroomed flat located on the 8th floor with great views. Don't worry about the mortgage. Most High Street banks will lend due to its excellent location.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
So this is the very final part of the talk, where hopefully things will come together a bit more screen.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
My first visit to the house I came to call Moss. Green had a curd in the spring of 2001. For the next decade and more, I was to walk past more screen several times a year as part of my weekly Sunday walk every Sunday morning. Whatever the weather, my partner and I make the journey to Waterloo or London Bruce Bridge station. We board a train, taking us to the limit of the Metropolis, London so called Greenbelt. And after about an hour we disembark the train and walk into the dusk along the paths of the Weald.

[2523.0s - 2552.0s]
And our walks out of Seven Oaks small town, we sometimes take the route down Oak Lane. Then Grassy Lane, past Fig St and along graciously drawing to a halt at the fork in the road where my screen is situated. When we first saw the house were entirely enchanted with the way of life, it represented as well as the arresting beauty of its low yet gentle decay. The house was single story brick and timber construction, placed at the top of a scarp slope, with its porch facing a view out over southern England. We're two benches faced each other.

[2552.0s - 2581.0s]
The interior was full of exquisite touches. A perfectly placed cupboard, a carefully detailed window sill, a thoughtful light switch, a door handle, a fitted like a glove.

[2581.0s - 2610.0s]
It was hovering at that point where the decay was still able to provide an atmosphere of charm and the thought of collapse could be held off where it was possible to imagine oneself into the house repairing the woodwork and occupying the rooms.

[2610.0s - 2639.0s]
We guessed it had been built after the First World War as part of the program called Home Fit for Heroes, which allowed returning and traumatized soldiers to readjust to civilian life in the comfort of a simple domestic setting with space for gardening and growing food.

[2639.0s - 2668.0s]
But over the years, the House has fallen into disrepair, and our spirits now sink. Each time we see it. When it's late roof was removed around three years ago, the rot set in, and as a structure, it's now barely stay.

[2668.0s - 2697.0s]
Able. As it slipped past the threshold of being saveable, we've surrendered our dream of living there ourselves in a modest rural retreat. No doubt the new owner is waiting for the moment of collapse when the walls Cave in to construct a dwelling which requires no restoration. I wonder whether my screen should have been heritage listed and whether I should have taken on that task myself, and if it's not valued as a piece of architectural heritage. What are the emotional qualities it holds that make it feel special enough? To want to save.

[2697.0s - 2726.0s]
On one visit years ago, when the house was open to the elements, but some of its contents were still present, we noted some books on architecture, old journals from the building, trade piles of old photographs. We salvage the few items, notably one book, new Architecture of London. Should have done this a while ago. Was trying to save the battery. Notably one book, new Architecture of London, a selection of building since 1930, along with the selection of black and white photographs which I've shown you already in the talk.

[2726.0s - 2755.0s]
Recently, in examining the photographs more closely, I've become fascinated with tracking down the buildings that are imaged in them.

[2755.0s - 2784.0s]
As well as the architectural qualities of the structures I've had text based clues to work with. Text on a board outside one of the flats, the registration plate, a street sign, and then letters over the entrances to two of the blocks so you can. You can just. So I had five clues like that from the set of photographs. Try and work out what we what these building.

[2784.0s - 2813.0s]
As well. And then this was very helpful as well. 2 to 24. Edmund St.

[2813.0s - 2842.0s]
In working between new architecture of London, the book that we salvaged, as well as doing web searches for various clues, I managed to track down most of the structures and it turns out that the majority are all what we would now call modernist icons so. The.

[2842.0s - 2871.0s]
This is the Elmington estate in Camberwell, south London, that was built in 57. They've all been built by the London County Council, which reconstructed housing after the war and was responsible for a lot of modernist innovation. So the Armington estate now largely demolished.

[2871.0s - 2900.0s]
The whole filter state from 52 to five, which was designed by Tecton Drake and last and for Paddington Borough Council.

[2900.0s - 2929.0s]
The Alton East estate. Designed by the LCC.

[2929.0s - 2958.0s]
Then Churchill Gardens, which was designed by Powell and Moyer for Westminster City Council. Also this took the longest to build from 1950 to 62 at the same.

[2958.0s - 2987.0s]
Hi I was searching for a new flat of my own to live in and buy and I took the opportunity to view these very same buildings on a website calledprimelocation.com so it's a real estate website from an estate agents perspective. These flats are described as ideal investments, not places where the purchaser might choose to live but rather by to let opportunities real estate to be rented out to students and others. And so I was very interested by the fact that the estate agents never show the exterior. They only ever show interiors because they don't want to highlight the fact that they are counselor states.

[2987.0s - 3016.0s]
Searching for modernist icons through primelocation.com is a stark reminder of what has happened to the ideals of modernism. Those are states in the West of London are often well maintained, sometimes privatized and provide with concierge scheme. So this is Churchill Gardens.

[3016.0s - 3045.0s]
Those in the poorer boroughs have been allowed to decline materially. They were not included in council major works programs, which are the large scale repair and maintenance cycles, and many are now being demolished because the Council's desire to profit from the increase in land value in areas of regeneration. So that's why this Elmington estate is being demolished.

[3045.0s - 3074.0s]
So what are the person who lived in Moss Green Ann once owned the photographs of these modern buildings? Was he or she an architect? Did they play a role in designing the buildings in the photographs? How did they compare the schemes for urban mass housing with their own rural bungalow? If the delicate beauty of Moss green points out a whole network of modernist icons, how to compare these two kinds of modernism? The earlier vernacular craft based arts and crafts and the later phase of industrialization and standardization.

[3074.0s - 3103.0s]
From Tesla to Dean's work. That critiques the heroism of modernism. Pointing to the failure of certain technological schemes.

[3103.0s - 3132.0s]
To root leaves Luxembourgs glowing photographs of London's high rise flats, which he calls Taliban towers one and two, which title Modern architecture, a Taliban, or monster. There's been a fascination with the so called.

[3132.0s - 3161.0s]
Old failure of the modern project. I'm not convinced Modernism's failed. I think the aspiration for social community in progress in bodies were driven out at least in the UK by governments keen to promote an ideology of homeownership. If everyone is way down by hefty mortgage, the capacity for dissent is drastically reduced. There's a lot at stake then when the social housing of the modernist project is sold off as a good opportunity for investment on primelocation.com, and it's perhaps not overstating the case to create, say it's created a disaster for the left. Not only because of the number of homes available to lap by the Council or a reduced for those who need them, but also because those who buy them become part of the propertied class and all that entails. I know this because I'm part.

[3161.0s - 3190.0s]
At the problem. I'll come back to this image in a moment.

[3190.0s - 3219.0s]
Vernetta and now returning to more screen several weekends ago, much of the timber work has collapsed and lying in pieces on the grass. I turned over one rotten section to reveal 2 words painted in fast, fragmenting white letters. May mourn, I remembered this was the building's name plaque, which had been located at the entrance to the plot when we first came across the house. More and more are homonyms. One suggests the beginning, the other and ending morning begins the day while morning in grieving the loss of something or someone marks an ending due to their deteriorating material states the most greenhouse, the paper of the photographs, the painted letters all three point towards disintegration or endings. And yet the buildings contained in the photographs are shown at the beginning of their life. What does it mean now to turn back and examine these icons of modernism? An early moment a springtime when hope for a better future was not viewed as a naively misjudged optimism. I wrote the first version of this essay on amame on a day before the general election of the 6th of May 2010 in the UK, and I delivered it as a talk six days later at the University of Roehampton, after I'd voted Liberal for the first time in my life. So disgusted was I with New Labour's lies over the Iraq war, and on a day the coalition between the Liberals and Tories was formed. On a day on which I discovered I'd help to deliver the country a Tory government, I was approached after my talk and asked. Did you know there are two homonyms in the title of your talk? I look back a bit blankly. May the month and may the verb, he explained. And then he added. You seem to be asking for the right to more. It turns out that May is a homograph, not a homonym. May is the month of a month in the year, but it's also a modal verb, one which expresses possibility. I hope A wish and also to request permission, may I more so, post new Labour's ambivalence towards the public sector. The conservative agenda has shown no such ambivalence. Drastic cuts are made in the name of austerity, a doublespeak for what's actually a transfer of funds to the banking elite, and in such a political climate in acting a morning for modernist housing is potentially rather regressive and romantic a project. But writing positively of nostalgia as a longing for something better, Fredric Jameson has pointed out with reference to the early work of Benjamin Orrala allegory and Ruin, but looking back to the past because it is appears to be better than the problems of the present isn't necessarily regressive, especially if it can be used to change the future, he writes. If nostalgia is a political motivation is most frequently associated with fascism, there's no reason why nostalgia conscious of itself. A lucid and remorseless dissatisfaction with the present, on the grounds of some remembered plenitude. Cannot furnish as adequate a revolutionary stimulus as any other.

[3219.0s - 3248.0s]
So it's almost seven years to the day that I wrote the first version of the paper, and in a few weeks we'll be 2 elections on and we'll have had seven years of the Conservative government. The paper and the book that it's part of were written at my desk in my flat on the 18th floor of a tower block in south London, so you can see probably it's clear that an architect there, everyone else is captain, that curtains, but I took all of mine.

[3248.0s - 3277.0s]
From the window I could see a history of London's housing design lying at my feet from the Georgian townhouses of the estate agents, newly coined Woolworth Village to the ragged holes in the ground, where the Heygate Estate used to be from the pointed end of the Shard. Why soaring skyward penthouses apparently contained swimming pools and cinemas to than you so called affordable new flats built along the edge of Burgess parks? You can just see that green there in place of the social housing provided by the slab blocks of the Aylesbury Estate, some of which had already been demolished and some which lie under threat. And this would be better. As I drew the book to a close.

[3277.0s - 3306.0s]
I discovered that my home was in what subject calls their estate.

[3306.0s - 3335.0s]
You'll say the property consultant staff.

[3335.0s - 3364.0s]
Had been advising the Council of the need to unearth the potential of public land, including brownfield sites, a term which usually means industrial sites, but here means fully occupied housing Estates according to samples and others Post War point and slab blocks were not dense enough and should be replaced by mansion blocks on reintroduced old school St Layouts.

[3364.0s - 3393.0s]
Although knew and this is a an outfit that's doing this kind of independent research on why we need to have traditional streets. Again, although new research shows that refurbishment has left social and environmental costs and demolition, the advantage of new build is the existing residents can be moved out and in turn following viability studies. The developers can make their non negotiable profit margin anything from 15 to 25%. Usually you can't find out it's under it's confidential. While providing a very small percentage of so called affordable housing in the case.

[3393.0s - 3422.0s]
Heygate Estate, which is just North of the Aylesbury tenants, were displaced from central London in two other borrowers and leaseholders were rejected from the city entirely, so this is a map obtained under Freedom of Information request. See where people were ejected from so clearly ejected right out of London. There's another map of the tenants who. They end up being ejected. My little will more. Viscaria, Dartford, Gravesend, and so forth. I'm. And leaseholders rejected entirely as the rates of compensation paid when councils issued compulsory purchase orders are so low.

[3422.0s - 3451.0s]
I became so angry by the Council's actions that I decided to use my academic and professional working skills to act and get directly involved in the fight for the Aylesbury and turn my uncertainties around my London home into my academic work. A project I call making homework, and this is a project I'm currently engaged in as an expert witness in a public inquiry arguing, amongst other things, for refurbishment over demolition and so this is an ongoing project which I don't have time to go into today. Where I've been using the research that I've done in order to try and work with activists to prevent the Council knocking down the Aylesbury Estate, so I'll end there. Thank you for your patience.
