Around March 2009, however, I'll do my best, but there now it's the time you know to think about possible workshops and initiatives that can be run and under this umbrella, and so this is the third automatic program on partial and delayed feedback run so far. Either statistical online are often concerned with this scenario, in which have you have labeled the sample. You might have some noise, but in some sense the information part from statistical estimation problems. So one thing I would have in mind for this automatic problem is the definition of models of reinforcement learning that are not necessarily. Not necessarily as simple as the bandit problem, but not not. Don't go until the full blown MDP problem. All the lightweight reinforcement learning models that would address a certain aspects that more general than bandits, but not so general as the Markov decision process. I mentioned partial monitoring, for instance in. And other examples are budget budgeted learning, in which you have a budget on the number of attributes that you can access in a whole learning problem. In which the feedback here is the result of a negotiation between the decision maker, the learner and environment which is in this case and maybe it's not neither oblivious an adverse aerial think of for instance, of user. We can think of networks of. A global measure of performance that takes into account the behavior of all the agents. And you can achieve this massive maximization of social welfare even when the single components of the adaptive system that work together, even with this single components, are a selfish behavior or every behavior that is not. Some one fixed point is the joint workshop with mellow. Besides, noise is something that is partially in several senses that we're going to talk about later is delayed or indirect in another sense. Learning models that tackle this problem of partial feedback. For instance, you can think of active or semi supervised learning, in which you. Nearly a somewhat orthogonal, maybe not so much orthogonal problem is the reinforcement learning problem, in which the utility of an action that you take at some point is known after a variable amount of time in which you come to the end of the order of your game over episode. Between to compensate for this partial feedback for this partial information that you get and this compensation that takes off in the form of an exploration by means meaning that you take actions that are not justified by your current estimate of the environment but actually are more gratuitous. To extend your modeling directions that are not necessarily the best one at the moment with information that you have at the moment and the other theme that is important is the what you do with your labeled data. In case you're in unsupervised or semi supervised learning problems, whether you use them to regularize solutions so to provide their ways of. Works several groups studied this problems in Pascal one and we had. And industrial partner of Pascal at touch clarity that commercialized and application of bandit for the adaptive content management or websites. That is now the highest rated program on the computer online server, Mogo. Of a seemingly simple technology as a bandit algorithm, and this is actually is based on a series of layers of bandit algorithms.