[0.0s - 29.0s]
So I don't know how much enthusiasm are going to be able to raise now about something's going to happen in. Around March 2009, however, I'll do my best, but there now it's the time you know to think about possible workshops and initiatives that can be run and under this umbrella, and so this is the third automatic program on partial and delayed feedback run so far. Run by me. And well.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
It's it's. It's kind of easy to motivate the need to look at. Cognitive systems or cognitive behavior. The need of. Investigating models of learning in which you don't get an indication about the optimal action that should have taken at some point the current at the last. I the last time you did something. And the. So these were the classical models of learning. Either statistical online are often concerned with this scenario, in which have you have labeled the sample. You might have some noise, but in some sense the information part from statistical estimation problems. The information that you have a carries enough carries in the information concerning the optimal action that should have taken. In in.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
In real world, the feedback that you get is corrupted in several ways. Besides, noise is something that is partially in several senses that we're going to talk about later is delayed or indirect in another sense. Anne.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
There are some examples of. Learning models that tackle this problem of partial feedback. For instance, you can think of active or semi supervised learning, in which you. You have to. Look for you have a small set of labeled examples or you have to decide which are the examples that you want to get the labels for and in the extreme case you are looking at the unsupervised learning problem which you don't have examples altogether. You don't have labels altogether. And.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Nearly a somewhat orthogonal, maybe not so much orthogonal problem is the reinforcement learning problem, in which the utility of an action that you take at some point is known after a variable amount of time in which you come to the end of the order of your game over episode. Or you under or you end up in some region of the space where you get further information. And so they.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Several common themes that. Come into play when you look at these models. One is the need of trading off. Between to compensate for this partial feedback for this partial information that you get and this compensation that takes off in the form of an exploration by means meaning that you take actions that are not justified by your current estimate of the environment but actually are more gratuitous. Actions are actions that are almost random in the sense that they try to collect them biased information. To extend your modeling directions that are not necessarily the best one at the moment with information that you have at the moment and the other theme that is important is the what you do with your labeled data. In case you're in unsupervised or semi supervised learning problems, whether you use them to regularize solutions so to provide their ways of. Scoring better the quality of solution that you derive values based on the labeled data. So these are some of the things that some of the themes that are common to these threads. So one problem there was.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
That very much look at that in Pascal one and is somehow prototypical in the study of exploration and exploitation exploration. Exploitation tradeoff is the bandit problem. Which is simply to say that you have a sequence of decision problems every time you choose one action out of K an, but you get a feedback. Concerning the specific action that you've taken, so you know don't know what was the optimal action, and in particular you don't know the utility of all the all the actions that you didn't choose at the time. So one example that might be so this is a kind of ubic wittus problem in learning. It happens in this guys in several ways. For instance, you can think of a multiclass classification of possible model for multiple, maybe a more practical model for multiclass classification. Whenever you make whenever you guess that a certain instance belongs to a certain class, you only know whether your guess was correct or not. Well, you'll never get to know what was the correct class for that distance. OK, this may be a way a more practical, more general wait. Look at multiclass problems. OK, that has a strong bandit flavor. And there were some nice.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
They said that several. Works several groups studied this problems in Pascal one and we had. There was one challenge. It was sponsored by. Anne. And industrial partner of Pascal at touch clarity that commercialized and application of bandit for the adaptive content management or websites. And this is can be with one one of the directed commercial application of bandit technology that uses this in this case is users also cite information provided by the user in terms of features extracted by the user that we visit the website. And another nice application that. And came out recently.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Close the use of bandit evolution of bandit algorithms forgo playing. And there's a bandit based program that uses Monte Carlo exploration and bandits to Explorer Game Tree. That is now the highest rated program on the computer online server, Mogo. So this is a very interesting and.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Complex application of. Of a seemingly simple technology as a bandit algorithm, and this is actually is based on a series of layers of bandit algorithms. UCB UCT that are principle algorithms. So we have theorems to prove their behavior and but yet we of course we didn't expect that these things could have such a far reaching applications and. So it's still under debate why these things work so well for problems with such a nasty structure as a goal. So.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
This does that sometimes. I mean sometimes looking at simple things that simple models might be rewarding because you have you get a good understanding you get. You can design algorithms that are simple but yet have a potentially goes beyond your expectations. So one thing I would have in mind for this automatic problem is the definition of models of reinforcement learning that are not necessarily. Not necessarily as simple as the bandit problem, but not not. Don't go until the full blown MDP problem. That might be something which is definitely worth of investigation, but probably. Bit too general for our current understanding, so I would like something I was interested to see was the emergence of intermediate models. Which we could we could.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
All the lightweight reinforcement learning models that would address a certain aspects that more general than bandits, but not so general as the Markov decision process. So there are some examples examples like Apprentice Apprenticeship learning in which you have to learn an MVP, but you're helped by the observing the trajectory done by another policy. When expert policy so we can try to learn from so you don't have your own, only your own trajectories to learn from, but also the trajectories of another policy. And there were some interesting results concerning these models. So these are. You see, these are this is a murder enforcement learning which you have additional information study information that helps you to come up with more clever and more interesting strategies. So another theme that is connected to this one.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Also, not so much is is game theory. So there is game theory as a long tradition of looking at problems with partial information feedback. I mentioned partial monitoring, for instance in. For instance, this is the prototypical problem. Here is a. Dynamic pricing problem in which you want to sell things but you only know whether you sold it or not, and you never know what is the utility of the buyer, so you never know, for instance, what was the maximum price at which the buyer was willing to pay for your object. You only know whether the weather he bought the object or not, but still you want to come up with a nice price that would get most of the users. Most of the customers. And other examples are budget budgeted learning, in which you have a budget on the number of attributes that you can access in a whole learning problem. So here I mean. Measuring attributes is a costly thing. Think of a sensor network. I think of a medical problem. And you want to. Minimize you want to trade off between the amount of knowledge that you gain and the number of attributes that you're going to measure here there are lots of interesting connections with the. An theory of Boolean functions, for instance, influence in the influencer of in Boolean functions, and this is definitely a nice. A nice way of considering limitation. Limitation in learning problem and another one is incentive based learning. In which the feedback here is the result of a negotiation between the decision maker, the learner and environment which is in this case and maybe it's not neither oblivious an adverse aerial think of for instance, of user. User machine interface and you want to you want to convince the user somehow that useful to provide feedback to the adaptive interface so that the interface can adapt better, but you typically the user has a different utility function, is not interested in, it's not going to tell you you're his utility function is not interested in maximizing the flow of information. He has his own agenda and you want to somehow to convince him that. He has to provide you feedback as provided. Adaptive system with feedback. And so there were. There are several game theoretic models that address the problem of partial feedback from different angles. And here the goal would be to try to develop a unified models, but. Especially, bringing this game theoretic technology towards cognitive applications, cognitive problems, so to provide more. If you like practical and broad range application of this. Techniques. And so, as Nello, I said that there is a.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Nice, there are several nice nice connections with the first Matic Matic program. Multicomponent learning. We can think of networks of. I mean, I'm just catching a few Nello. I'm sure eyes mind completely different ones. You can think of networks of banding players. This is an idea which basically you want to do collaborative filtering, and you are in a network of users, so you sometimes you pull and you make and select. You select the resource sometime you ask us some another user about which resource, which resource is more useful for you at this time. And so you started to learn which are the users that are more useful for you. But of course this pattern might change overtime. And the whole idea is that the system should learn. Learn how to choose a resources with making a smaller number of mistakes because they can leverage on the mistakes made by the others. OK? And another scenario is the scenario of multi task learning, in which you want to. You have several tasks that have to be solved in parallel and what you want to leverage on is the relation relatedness between tasks. So to the extent that the different tasks are related, the communication between learners should allow to get a substantial substantial saving in the hub in the number of mistakes on in the cost overall cost to reach a certain performance. And another more than. Another different. Topic is the. Anne. The phenomenon that has been observed in several network games. In when you can maximize some overall activity, which is in this context is called the social welfare, which is. A global measure of performance that takes into account the behavior of all the agents. And you can achieve this massive maximization of social welfare even when the single components of the adaptive system that work together, even with this single components, are a selfish behavior or every behavior that is not. Not geared at maximising this overall utility, but each user is after his own utility. So depending on the nature of the game, it seems like I mean Dallas. Very interesting examples in which. Being selfish doesn't hurt too much. OK, still you can obtain a cooperative behavior as a final outcome because of the game is structured in a certain way. OK, then there's clustering as I mentioned at the end with.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
All these, I mean clustering is extreme example of semi supervised learning and there are. This is again a field of extreme object of intense research research both from the practical but very also in the last five years by the theoretical community and there have been lots of interesting theoretical concepts like a concept of stability for clustering. So what is the idea here? Is we want to come up with a definition of consistency of clustering procedures that is as good as robust as the notion of consistency for classification procedures. And there are lots of interesting questions here that are worth being pursued and we have already along a stronger tradition of work on that in Pascal one, so I mean, this is still way to go and sketch.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Some one fixed point is the joint workshop with mellow. We're going to do that in early spring next next year, and then these are just a few ideas. But I definitely invite you to come up with proposals in and just send me email and we will let time and resources to organize these things and so. I'd be really happy to have a feedback on that, not partial, maybe OK, thank you.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Yes. I think that at this point it would be. It would be great to have a reason with the complex system, because when typically when you mention the fact that in some games you can reach the global optimum, whenever agents are selfish. The invisible hand. The end point is that if the invisible, this is the economist, colorful jargon. Yeah, the trembling, trembling, hand that invisible hand, they'll always have these hands that. This is the basic assumption of. Classic roller, yeah yeah yeah yeah but but. If it were true to the to the full extent, what is? Yeah, I know this truth. Is some very specific cases, but it is this I mean. At. Obtaining designing agents with so selfish behavior. Selfish behavior is easy and you can you know very well. I mean, it's something that you can understand very well. And designing the comparative behavior from scratch. That's the problem you always want to. You want something for free. You want to cooperative behavior that emerges. Sometimes you mention the fact that we might have different time skills. I mean, this is where usually Darwinism comes into play. Because if Society of agents no no no. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. OK, I see I see what you mean. Yes. Great practice addition, which is that. Send an email with program syndrome. In short, notice that they make programs for Pascal. Email is because they put more many people here. People are not having some ability access to the systematic programs and highlighting before I think will actually be very helpful for people participating and I think it was been a bit. Having them exposed here. So having exposed that, I'm giving people opportunity to interact with. I'm not gonna make it the moment to do that right away for meals because of the fact that you know it's already starting, but for the others I don't know how long it will take for the recordings around, but you know, maybe when they're up they committed. Notify people the things I want to check. OK, so the recording. We're kind of busy. People are one page. Email is probably going to work tomorrow. So one page in announcing that. In your program, you could hold off for. Skip slide. No. OK, let's see. In attachment, all the videos of the day. I was just pointing to the recording so they can actually do the session, that's why. Which I think we should do anything. But yeah, I think would be great too. I certainly think that it's something we need to do more obvious to draw people into the trying to get this more coherent story there. No, you're awesome. I was a graduate. It's true at least has the potential to connect it to the first program as well as the second. So connected actually to each other and. We did point out to me in the past that the notion of delated differential equations is different for the later work you have, but the fact is also different. I actually believe it. He's a level in which is the same today. Delator partial differential equation system has something to do with the kind of delay you have here in the label, and it would be nice to have synergy between those reports. I want I don't want to make a long story. Great great. OK, thank you.
