To the started from this motivation. Well, somehow it's a reaction to something that I hear more and more often, even from Bayesian friends saying things like I'm agnostic about base. I just use Bayes as another tool, or I use whatever works. Sema Kicker is the president. So what happens is that in a Poly or not, the sequence of colors turns out to be exchangeable, and then by the magical representation Theorem this evolutionary. Spread of contagion is probabilistically probabilistically equivalent to a static experiment, where we pick a known. It's our learning rule. So the contagion of diseases in fact. Probability and frequency of course, without equal to this. Through some probability, we want our beliefs will be consistent on merely with one another, but also with the facts, and so if we again we have the two possible interpretation or uses not contrasting. May be the focus of interest may change because we may be interested in comparing. I've been thinking if this results could be about Bayesian counterpart to frequencies that seem to ticks. I would like to mention this portal work by Diaconis and Friedman, who indeed gave a result for a cave. The posterior pie laps around the true value almost surely pitted at 0 Infinity and replace it with a finite sample results without exceptional sets or true value of the parameters. If we consider again the dice this time and we consider any interval centered in the frequency or sorry this is, I think I reported for the coin. Surely with respect to P it's for any X1 XN. I will have a sort of deviation, so this is a kind of a first deviation from my root of Orson, and so I think there is this in my comment in my deviation or that there is still work to do on final sample properties of Bayesian procedures. So going after this detour, taking again the highway of the polio, nowhere polyonax is predict is and is an example I like because it's a basic example of a predictive construction of an exchangeable sequence, where the steps are we look at. So the results of the car. They the polio would not said is an example of a predictive construction based on processes. We were informed reinforcement, beautiful review in probability service by P mantle and the most famose immediate extensions are to warn of K colors. Of color J sufficient for predicting the probability that the next step ball will be of college I then the predictive has to be of that linear form and that characterizes Edition redistribution as the prior for the exchangeable sequence and extending to countable colors. Predictive rule. The the next observation can be an old value with some probability proportional to the frequency or a new value sample from F0 with probability that depends on that constant Alpha, which implies sizing the sample, and so the sample in fact is described by random partition that says which value is equal to what, which value, and then by the this distinct values so that the sample centroid or speeches and Antonia can 1974 just after. This is the celebrated. Bayesian nonparametrics butts in Bayesian Parametrics is indeed the basis of many developments. So just give the predictive or generative algorithm, and I think a beautiful example is the Indian buffet process by Griffith and Caramani, where they gave the algorithm they gave the predictive rule somehow and DEFINITY measure was only find. I said in this interdisciplinary cross for fertilization so it has applications an impact in many from evolutionary molecular genetics, population dynamics, neutral theory of biodiversity, combinatorics and so on, and so it's not only of course, based on other metrics, but it's across visualization of ideas from different fields. Clustering structure of the DP is quite parametric as we have seen in LAX power law behavior. Some are beautiful. Is a two parameter person initially, but classes of completely random measures and a mention here. A is clearly restrictive if we have continuous data becausw we would like to spread information carried by the frequency in a two neighborhood sets, and I think this can be predicted motivation for smoothing of the Dirichlet process through mixture models, we could consider smoothing the predicted distribution of the. Partial exchangeability referees invariants under a subclass of permutations. So we have more C and. If it's pretty low, is invariant under. And my point will be that the interpretation of prediction that the probability and prediction that we take is in fact not neutral and changes our viewpoint, focus and interest. Characterize conjugate prior for the transition matrix of a reversible Markov chain. Aupperle construction characterizes. Through a predictive approach, of course there are many proposals, so they hierarchical division process I just mentioned is an example or extensions to more general hierarchical Pitman and others. So I have two hospitals and patients X&Y in the two hospitals, and one could say the pairs are exchangeable with additional process on the joint, but that is too rigid and it's it's a conjugate prior or some improvement was done by Sarah Weighted Silver Mongelluzzo. Hope they could be partially exchangeable. The game I'm saying interacting or well I I I take this comment for late an so we can consider a system of interacting sequences evolving according to a randomly reinforce scheme. But we we we have weights, so the presidents of weights that could be known, evolving with time and generate random. WMA Evolve along time or be random. In fact, is not longer stationary and time cannot be ignored. This is a special family of generalized polygons with diagonal replacement matrix. So in more general version of the same spirit could be not today to color, but infinitely many color possibly, but we still have a sort of weighted Chinese restaurant process where the probability of joining the table and if we don't want to, so the probability of joining a cluster or a table. Depends not only on the number of customers sitting at the table, but also underweight the influence authority, and indeed this class of models was introduced, studied, studied, is also expressed slightly differently by Bassetti cream. Well, this process is are not stationary and and in general, and so no longer exchangeable, so. There is a in an interesting property that this sequence is may have to and say in the above predictive rule, when I attach the wait there, I would distinguish 2 cases. If the waiter is independent on the on the color but depends only on the drone, then the process satisfies a condition that is written there. They preserve limit law of exchangeable sequences. So that's this. If it depends on the color DC ID property is not. Exchangeable the sequence. Sick person, the probability that I get contagious could seek is not always the same. It's difficult to find and of course depends. So if we consider this randomly reinforced processes well with, we're thinking that there is a competition and so that if I have this network, the capacity of attracting another doesn't only depend on the number of friends I have Facebook say, but only on how authorative I am or I. I'm thinking here of cake or multicolor rainfall soon will go to zero for the non dominant ages and all the predicted probability will eventually be concentrated on the set of dominant ages. Somehow paralleling this extension from exchange, beta, partial Exchangeability, Palace station, and go from ACID to a partially ID CI Dinos. Shaun and so we found that we have developed this and again I just mentioned that this notion we give is not just having a dependent to see ID sequences, But we want it to be equivalent to partial exchangeability under stationarity. Don't kill me that we are in the world of data science big data, so I'm not talking about a little bit of history, but for a moment I spent a few minutes just thinking back of historical background environment where people among the founders of modern Bayesian statistics, people like Ramses averaged affinity water live. Difficult concrete problems in actuarial science, economics, information risk, and decision. Another very important notion of partial sensibility is hard decision Kahlenberg exchange ability that is referred to an array of random variables, and we have notions of separatist change ability. If we can permute the rows and the columns, or jointly if we can permute the roles of the columns with the same permutation, the reasons sort of similar analog of the DEFINITY representation theorem for exchangeable sequence or so for a columnist changeable. But again, I knew I wouldn't have time to give any detail and that would be of course, maybe another foundational lecture for someone more expert than me. We had a call, so anyway, so I want us to mention something that is now fascinating and also know intriguing for many of us. And that is beautiful and fascinating theory on large graphs and graph limits developed by Laszlo Lovasz. So great mathematician and menu, great collaborators that has strict connection with all the supercalender representation. However, exchangeable graphs are either dance or empty, while real networks tend to be sparse and show power, low behaviors, and so our minds around, for example, say so. See ID or quasi ID. So if I introduce a system of randomly preferential attachment, I can model selection in the competition or other forms of nonstationarity in the graph evolution. For random graph, it is known that there is an analogue of convergence of the empirical distribution in my 2 color soon was a convergence of the composition to settle into Theta. So if I'm not sure I mean to my knowledge I don't have a clear yet, maybe I don't, I'm not. The implications say some some work already exists, but my idea is that this could be a way of modeling and evolution of the graphs and using results. It was during the war and at the end of the world that Abraham Val developed his theory of modern statistical decision theory and sequential analysis to speed up experiments, sequential design, sequential analysis. We can order the actions and from then understand. My probability believes probability and utility about getting holding the umbrella, but among the two action, this doesn't mean of course, so that the relation between probability and frequency is not fundamentally still remains fundamental. Bernoulli trials is very mentally sampling. We replacement from a two color Uno with unknown composition and I think any Bayesian statistician would agree by saying. The total number of goals and then the predicted probability of one is the number of whiteboards, they own composition, the number of white board in the owner step an divided by the total number of order of balls in the urn. How comes that we use appolyon to describe Bernalillo? Answer. This apoliona is a basic example of a process with reinforcement. At each step, her with Drawable and it's ricord its color and then we return the ball in the room together with another bowl of the same color. So at Bergen Palya in the 1923 introduces model for many reasons, but in particular can be a model for the spread of contagion.