[0.0s - 29.0s]
I would like to thank the Scientific Committee for the owner of this invitation to give a foundational lecture. I kind of regretted to take this challenge and to help to speak between two Giants of Bayesian statistics like. Peter and David. So let's see what I managed to do today. So I said it's a subject.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
To the started from this motivation. So I was thinking what should I talk about in this lecture and. Well, somehow it's a reaction to something that I hear more and more often, even from Bayesian friends saying things like I'm agnostic about base. I just use Bayes as another tool, or I use whatever works. And well, it's not only my sample, apparently. Sema Kicker is the president. This year has similar sample in a bullet in his head. Sample of user have heard this base is merely another tool, or sometimes base is equal to shrinkage and the opposite bases magic, which is also not good. So what is this K? Anne.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So I understand. I mean I can understand some some reasons for saying that now we want to see Bayesian action. This light is terrible. We want to see Bayesian solutions of difficult problems, so we don't care so much about what is behind the foundations of probability and Bayesian statistics. And but still, this is a foundational lecture and I thought I couldn't exist in trying to give a sort of reaction to this attitude, and maybe have some discussion or reactions from you. And my point will be that the interpretation of prediction that the probability and prediction that we take is in fact not neutral and changes our viewpoint, focus and interest. And we know this. We've been saying this so sometimes we forget. We remember again and there are many ways I could. One can argue about that. We know discussion of values or model selection or so, but I will try to argue about this. So that what what interpretation of probability we take makes a difference through my subjective choice of topics, so I will do a little premise and then start with the basic Bernoulli trials and polyols and then mainly I'll talk about notions of exchangeability and reinforce process is to go to something that is closer to what I have been recently doing, or randomly reinforce. Process is the last point is will be just. A little open conjecture, and I'm not sure it makes sense, but I would like to mention and.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Don't kill me that we are in the world of data science big data, so I'm not talking about a little bit of history, but for a moment I spent a few minutes just thinking back of historical background environment where people among the founders of modern Bayesian statistics, people like Ramses averaged affinity water live. So for a moment forget we are in the data science era. Let's go back in time to the 1920s, fifties and that my consideration is just that it perhaps is not a coincidence that these founders were mathematician logician probabilists that were also involved in concrete problems. Difficult concrete problems in actuarial science, economics, information risk, and decision. So.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Very technology cause latency. Picture, so we're back Cambridge, Cambridge in the 20s. Ramsey Ramsey was born in 1903, and I that's only 27, two younger in London, Cambridge was Cambridge. Sorry Ramsey was at Cambridge, Cambridge imagining the 20 Center of Knowledge. The place where economic economies like periods laugh is refund or minor case where living so Ramsey starts is through some probability that was written in 1926 and published after his death are going on kindness, vision of probability. So is now interested in logic and as the science of rational thoughts and looks for a notion of probability and decision in this perspective. Define.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Betty Definitely was born. Few years ago this day we happy birthday to Brew definitely today. So definitely was a mathematician, but initially worth at the Italians, Central Statistical Institute and Secure Attorney General Reinsurance Company. Very important insurance company interest, so the problems he was facing where problems of where actuarial problems, life insurance, credibility and definitely did write about economics here. I don't know if you can see, but it's. His work oil problem at a Peony that scooped the work of Markovits, for which Mark was Marco. It's got a Noble price, so he was doing important work in this kind of problems as well, and RAM say, well, you see there is the the war, so we had the Second World War. We're moving from the old Europe to the US center now, at least for some part of the world, become the US Jim.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Savage when he was initially worked in several places initially at the Institute of Advanced Studies and Princeton, where he was interacting with people like for Norman and Mr. Friedman, later for Summerson again from the scission Theory and Economics, and I put a war also to remember that this little. Picture of the world to remember. It was during the war and at the end of the world that Abraham Val developed his theory of modern statistical decision theory and sequential analysis to speed up experiments, sequential design, sequential analysis.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So I finished with this little history, but I thought that since we are somehow despite we are Bayesian but we are used to probability and frequency fired said at the beginning, let's think of probability as a tool for measuring information risk and decision. Maybe it was too different from what we are now used or still used. So this way you see that we have another vision of probability, not as frequency, but really related to problems. Of prediction risk evaluation decision. So just to underline these changes, but our perspective too. Short summary of Savage work annoys axiom. Savage was starting from actions you know from actions with the people like human being, human Agent, take decision, take action. We can order the actions and from then understand. So if I did the same as example if I take the umbrella or leave the umbrella to underlines. My probability believes probability and utility about getting holding the umbrella, but among the two action, this doesn't mean of course, so that the relation between probability and frequency is not fundamentally still remains fundamental. And this is just, you know, to start with changing our entering in this perspective no probability as related to prediction risk and decision. And I would like just to mention that, but maybe because I work in a School of Economics, I'm surrounded that I like it or not. I'm surrounded by economists. So there is indeed active research still on the lines along the lines of Savage work is kind of also mentioned. Just two Nobel prizes. The Sergeant and seems in economics. And it's a bit weird. I find that we Bayesian kind of forget about this. And so I wanted to take this opportunity of the foundation elector to to just mention this. And indeed I am happy to see that even in fact there are recent works on. Modern problem like intractable likelihood and high dimensional applications. Data that in fact start from Sam seems to take this decisional approach back.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So after this introduction, let me go to bit more. You know little example in probability, so I said I want to talk about notions of exchangeability and enforce processes. But also I want to do this again underlying how the way we look at these problems depending on our interpretation of probability can change our viewpoint. So I start with this basic example. Bernoulli trials is very mentally sampling. We replacement from a two color Uno with unknown composition and I think any Bayesian statistician would agree by saying. OK, statistical model IID Bernoulli, given Satan data usually as a conjugate beta distribution. This implies that the probability of picking one is given by A1 over Alpha initial compositional for one is the number of white ball Alpha. The total number of goals and then the predicted probability of one is the number of whiteboards, they own composition, the number of white board in the owner step an divided by the total number of order of balls in the urn. But this is the probability law of sample from appolyon. What I just wrote, so my question, if we don't care about interpretation of probability. How comes that we use appolyon to describe Bernalillo? Answer. You know it. The physical experiment is but no Lyon sampling with replacement. But we use Appolyon to describe it.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
This apoliona is a basic example of a process with reinforcement. We all know how it works. We have an order that initially has Alpha Balls, Alpha. Well, yeah, white. At each step, her with Drawable and it's ricord its color and then we return the ball in the room together with another bowl of the same color. So this I said white and black and this is a red and black. But this is an evolving project but a process. So at Bergen Palya in the 1923 introduces model for many reasons, but in particular can be a model for the spread of contagion. And the interest is what happened of this contagion with what? What will be the limit fraction of whiteboards, say Lt people in the population and well known results, is that the proportion of oddball converge to a random limit. So the surprise here is that the limit is random, and of course his anger because it's a tower on Little Omega, because it depends on the little Omega. That is, it depends on the history of our drawings or how the contagion spreads and has a beta distribution. So that's appolyon. So we should use.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Apoliona for modeling and in evolutionary phenomena such as the spread of contagion. And if we take it this way then we should do Bayesian inference, perhaps on the spread of contagion. So an exchangeable data because is that happen to be exchangeable, but not for Bernoulli. So what happens is that in a Poly or not, the sequence of colors turns out to be exchangeable, and then by the magical representation Theorem this evolutionary. Spread of contagion is probabilistically probabilistically equivalent to a static experiment, where we pick a known. Yeah, so we pick a known composition Theta from beta and then we sample ID from that order so the processes evolutionary. It's just the property of exchange ability that makes it probabilistically equivalent to static sampling from an order with with random composition. And in if we take so, why are we using the polyon to describe Bernalillo? Nice, because we take subjective probability and apoliona is not a physical description of this phenomena. In a way, it's a description of our of how we learn. It's our learning rule. So the the process the experiment is started, but we learn from experience. So the contagion of diseases in fact. Spread of information. So is is the rule along is our learning rule and we are saying that observing a wild boar enforces our prediction that the next ball is white. And then by exchangeability we have their political model that we are familiar with. So you see that it doesn't. It doesn't matter what interpretation of probability we give if only we accept that probabilities. Our subjective description of the phenomena. The little guys in our mind, we can use the polius or musky measure learning scheme for Bernoulli trials.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Probability and frequency of course, without equal to this. Little centers from Ramsey. Through some probability, we want our beliefs will be consistent on merely with one another, but also with the facts, and so if we again we have the two possible interpretation or uses not contrasting. Of course a Bayesian can be interested in spread of contagion. Of course as well. If we look at if we're dealing with the spread of the spread of contagion, then the main interest is in the own composition, and we saw that it converts the random data, has a better distribution and we may be interested in results to say a bit more to refine these results with central limit theorems for the scale difference between the own composition and the limits. Notice that as you distincts are well known but understood, the foundational lecture is really kind of. Overview of non things in my end, so it's a random rescaling. We are with things such as the usual central Limit theorem, but it is random and so roughly it means what is written code. It's a conditional convergence to the normal if we said we take a subject we we look at this party's own scheme as a subjective learning rule. May be the focus of interest may change because we may be interested in comparing. Well, of course we are interested in results as before, but we are also interested in comparing probability and frequency, so maybe we want. But it's also true. We know for the polyon that the frequency also converge to the same limit as predictive as the composition that iron and the central limit. And we are maybe interested in Central Limit Theorem that now compare the frequency. Say the prediction that iron and the frequency. So how far with our prediction are from the observed frequency? But also give central limit theorems about this or central limit theorems about this prediction error. Our predictions that are in. OK, our predictions at 10 and the next survey shun prediction errors. I.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
I've been thinking if this results could be about Bayesian counterpart to frequencies that seem to ticks. Don't have so maybe that's that's my view. I think they could be an. The fact is that also these results are stated. Almost surely we respect to P&P this changeable probability law of the sequence Excel. So it's not we respect to a true models respect P. So maybe we are could be happy about this. But I would like to mention that. People have tried to go further. I would like to mention this portal work by Diaconis and Friedman, who indeed gave a result for a cave. Guys that goes in this direction. In my understanding, said Reformulates the usual statement frequent is consistent consistency. The posterior pie laps around the true value almost surely pitted at 0 Infinity and replace it with a finite sample results without exceptional sets or true value of the parameters. The results is like that. If we consider again the dice this time and we consider any interval centered in the frequency or sorry this is, I think I reported for the coin. So we consider an interval plus minus plus H -- H around the frequency. Then the procedure out of being inside the interval against being outside is bound as this bound and the right hand side term doesn't depend on the on the sample. So this is an equality that also for any X1 XN, so there are no exception and that is not a normal. Surely with respect to P it's for any X1 XN. Absurd fraction stands for the true parameter. Well, it depends on the sample through an.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So that said that this is a subjective tool, but I'm not going through an iway. I will have a sort of deviation, so this is a kind of a first deviation from my root of Orson, and so I think there is this in my comment in my deviation or that there is still work to do on final sample properties of Bayesian procedures. Efron recently wrote about frequentist accuracy of Bayesian procedures, but I see that I would like to. Keep in mind my interpretation of probability is not neutral and I would like to take my interpretation of probability. Otherwise I don't understand why I use Poly or Bernoulli own and find keep thinking somehow. I mean, people have been thinking about this kind of problems since ever, but I think there is still more work to do. I just, you know, valuation of forecasters scoring rule merging an opinion fact, some notion of. Is my Bayesian procedure exploiting the formation I have, or do I have good information in another word? In other words, and I just some posters by Steven or Italian, another poster by Sarah Wathen Nicola Peruzzi Sama will go in this direction.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So going after this detour, taking again the highway of the polio, nowhere polyonax is predict is and is an example I like because it's a basic example of a predictive construction of an exchangeable sequence, where the steps are we look at. First, we express the probability on observable facts and autumns on parameters, and here if we have a sampling with replacement for an order, we say they X this weekend. Except to say the observations are exchangeable, order doesn't matter. Then we do another step. We express the predicted distribution and the sequence of predicted distribution always characterized probability law under mammal conditions on the process and after under some conditions this probability low P will be exchangeable, and then by the representation theorem we have the equivalence with the usual model and prior the sequence of empirical distributions. Which is the analogy here of their own composition from the owner. Pollio would not occur appolyon converge to a random distribution F. It depends on the little roaming on our mind. Independent reputation, which is called terminology Wilders, the directive measure and give enter the data sample. So peak in F and then I sample IID from F. And just like to mention that notions of predicted sufficiency have been studied. So the results of the car. And if I think that the summary of the observations TN say, is sufficient for predicting the next one, then the limit of that PN. Other condition under condition will go to a parametric directed measure so I can index about the the directive measure through a parameter that will be the limit of the sufficient statistics under conditions. Just mention this, because now that we have big data and we want to somehow since either we improve the computations or we try to simplify the mothers trying to suggest no obvious story to try to. Maybe what reason unpredicted sufficiency we maybe we don't need all the data there.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So I will hurry up now. They the polio would not said is an example of a predictive construction based on processes. We were informed reinforcement, beautiful review in probability service by P mantle and the most famose immediate extensions are to warn of K colors. And we know by Johnson sufficiency if we accepted Johnson sufficiency postulate. And we say that the frequency. Of color J sufficient for predicting the probability that the next step ball will be of college I then the predictive has to be of that linear form and that characterizes Edition redistribution as the prior for the exchangeable sequence and extending to countable colors. So we have Poly sequences Blackwood and McQueen, 9073, where again if where we can extend with a sort of. Extension of Johnson's officially postulate arrive and arrive to this pops. Predictive rule. Where that on? The next observational maybe that and you value from F0 or come from the empirical and again then X is as changeable. The sequence XN is a changeable, the predicted distribution converge to a random F which is discrete, and it's additional process. This I mentioned for his most famous. I just take a little one little deviation, but not to gasoline. So we have to take the predicted distribution seriously. So it's very natural to say the predictive is a weighted average, as here between my prior guests of zero and empirical distribution. But so we are saying more. We are saying that.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
The the next observation can be an old value with some probability proportional to the frequency or a new value sample from F0 with probability that depends on that constant Alpha, which implies sizing the sample, and so the sample in fact is described by random partition that says which value is equal to what, which value, and then by the this distinct values so that the sample centroid or speeches and Antonia can 1974 just after. It said it was on paper in 1973 NE. The importance of this discrete and discreteness implication. The implications of this craziness over issue roses, computer probity, love the random partition, which as you see is very parametric, depends only on Alpha K number of class of distinct values and then and when just considering a slightly different way of expressing the partition. This is the celebrated. You in sampling formula you insane. 1972 and.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Just mentioning this to say that predictive construction also maybe now you are a bit dripping and say what is she talking about? It's indeed a very rich approach, a very fruitful approach, and for just have this slide to say, just thinking it's not only nonparametric. Bayesian nonparametrics butts in Bayesian Parametrics is indeed the basis of many developments. My impression is that it was perhaps because of this common predictive approach. That we had the. Impetus the can I say the growth of fresh and sound constructions from the machine learning community in Bayesian non parametrics more than non decade ago I just missed so this predictive distributions are seen as generative algorithms to generate sequences and then. People even forget can propose this generative algorithm, even forgetting about what is the priority implied. So just give the predictive or generative algorithm, and I think a beautiful example is the Indian buffet process by Griffith and Caramani, where they gave the algorithm they gave the predictive rule somehow and DEFINITY measure was only find. Pryor was only fine later on the other end, it's not the I mentioned. The urine sampling formula, because that's a very well known famous celebrated formula results a beautiful result. That is a beautiful example, how. I said in this interdisciplinary cross for fertilization so it has applications an impact in many from evolutionary molecular genetics, population dynamics, neutral theory of biodiversity, combinatorics and so on, and so it's not only of course, based on other metrics, but it's across visualization of ideas from different fields. Anne.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
They are hard so. This predictive approach is fruitful. On the other end, of course, is not only the rich reprocess and the client. I just three remarks here. Clustering structure of the DP is quite parametric as we have seen in LAX power law behavior. Kingman 1978 beautifully explained that, and I just hear a jam just giving references, not entering in any details, and so we need extensions of perhaps the most. Some are beautiful. Is a two parameter person initially, but classes of completely random measures and a mention here. Not only are if you, it's it's a discussion in this paper, but going hand with the predictive approach we can think of and welcome earlier, gave a characterization neutral to the right processes via an extension of Johnson sufficiency postulate. I have to say that of course what we are saying through Johnson sufficient supposed to lay that the probability that the next observation is in a set a only depends on the frequency of that observations in that set. A is clearly restrictive if we have continuous data becausw we would like to spread information carried by the frequency in a two neighborhood sets, and I think this can be predicted motivation for smoothing of the Dirichlet process through mixture models, we could consider smoothing the predicted distribution of the. Judicial process so that the frequency Nesset gives information about the frequency of neighborhood sets. Anne. I mentioned.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So this so this story was what approach we take makes a difference, or at least we should be clear about what is the physical experiments that we are facing and what are our statements. Perhaps in a predicted making our assumptions in a productive way. I mentioned some exchangeable constructions and of course we have more complex dependence structure in the data, so we may want to look at notions of partial exchangeability. In exchange abilities, invariants under any permutation. Partial exchangeability referees invariants under a subclass of permutations. And maybe the first no show was due to DEFINITY percent ability in the sense of DEFINITY when we have multiple experiments. For example, sample of patients in different hospitals. So we have more C and. This the array, so the samples from different hospitals, say is partially exchangeable. If it's pretty low, is invariant under. Separate final permutations of the role on the corner, so in a way we can the data from each hospital. The sequence from the different from each experiment is exchangeable, but the sequences are not independent and Moreover they became. They become a syntactically independent if we can observe the infinite sample. Porter notions I'm going to go back to that. And Marco exchange ability. They also the cornice and Friedman or separate column exchange ability on which are returning a moment.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So this is just to say that people have taken a follow following this predictive construction of proposed interesting processes for partial exchangeable. Sequences, arrays. So here is just mentioning. Some important construction, the diachronic corpus mitama Diaconis edge reinforce random walk on a graph where we have a graph with different vertice is and there is a random walk alone. This vertices and an edge is rainforest so when I cross it and this has many application and here we may be interested in and the fact that this edge reinforce Rhonda Walker. Characterize conjugate prior for the transition matrix of a reversible Markov chain. So again, it's a predictive construction that characterize and mark office changeable property law for the process and implicitly also characterized. We're also explicitly the prior distribution, and this price distribution is conjugate. Annmulle, Aaron Volker Muller, second work characterized introduced the beta Stacy process that has had that had so many applications in Bayesian parametric survival analysis and Malcolm the other phase of the beta process of short on the distribution function. On the survivor, and so they also have a predictive construction through a system of reinforced on processes that generate some archivist changeable sequence. Then they look at the sequence of the O blocks, which is exchangeable, and so the probability law or the prior of this order Directive measure if you wanted that exchangeable sequence of length of X0 block is a supplier that has distribution that is called better Stacy process. And also this generative models have been proposed by Bell Ghahramani Rasmussen. They put they. Construct a very sound. Here are chical polio hope soon, so we have. Ann is getting it's a predictive construction where when you need to generate new colors sampling from an owner from once we generate them here are chical from another Oracle orner on top. Anyway, that's applicated. This construction is used for building an Infinity. The Markov model where we can have an infinite number of states. So if we are interested if we want a hidden Markov model, we don't know how many states we can let the number of states. Unbounded and so that this here are chical. Aupperle construction characterizes. A prior distribution Markiewicz changeable sequence and the prior distribution on the transition matrix is a hierarchical Dirichlet process that has been proposed formalized by ten others.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So those were just to mention three construct important construction for generating predicted construction for generating market exchangeable sequences. Anne. Yeah I would like to. Say a comment on DEFINITY partial exchangeability. So can we? Construct predictive can we characterize prior distribution for definitive partial exchangeable sequencing experiments in different hospitals? Through a predictive approach, of course there are many proposals, so they hierarchical division process I just mentioned is an example or extensions to more general hierarchical Pitman and others. They had huge number of applications, for example in topics models, language models. Is it possible? As far as I know? No, I can't. And so I mean I want to have some dependence, so I have patients in different hospitals. I would maybe I have big data. I would like to have some things. All the constructions that I mentioned, even they hierarchical Dirichlet process is a archical model and I have. So the computations need Markov chain Monte Carlo or need variational inference or need some clever computational strategy if I have something analytic again, I can try to simplify my model and maybe deer with bigger data set a bit easy. Maybe it more easily. But I don't know about predictive construction. That generates a partially exchangeable sequence. A simple, so it's simple analytic and there's some prior I don't care about what prior, at least I want to have the predicted construction, for example, an idea would be to say that XNYN. So I have two hospitals and patients X&Y in the two hospitals, and one could say the pairs are exchangeable with additional process on the joint, but that is too rigid and it's it's a conjugate prior or some improvement was done by Sarah Weighted Silver Mongelluzzo. Me is defining and reached the conjugate prior using the notion of rich conjugate priors for the exponential family. But still I think this. Is something open and I know if it can be sold, not even sold in a parametric case. There is work by bakkala, domes and Diaconis also that I think we know notion of approximate partial exchangeability which is different but not too far from this kind of problem. Mentioning and in fact if we think of some construction that on. Predicted construction and we.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Hope they could be partially exchangeable. Well, unfortunately they fail to be exchangeable, so think of and then we go to last. So we said a little bit of history notion of you know probability in polyols and general rainforest processes for building exchangeable or partial exchangeable. As probabilities model. So in this. Predictive approach generalization could be to consider randomly renforce processes. So now I have predicted this if I may have one, or I may have a system of interacting sequences. The game I'm saying interacting or well I I I take this comment for late an so we can consider a system of interacting sequences evolving according to a randomly reinforce scheme. So suppose I have a sequence X1's on distribution and then we have predictive rule that remains the rule of the division process. Say this would be. Interacting delicio processes, but we have weights. So the we don't. But we we we have weights, so the presidents of weights that could be known, evolving with time and generate random. But this can be a natural construction. So we have a system use imagine particles or observations. And we create some physical interaction or probabilistic dependence by letting some contagion not only along one of population but also across population. This could be a natural construction, but in general is nonstationary, an not partial exchangeable, so I like to spend the last few minutes discussing what kind of processes are. These are extensions of the processes we saw. Starting not with this general interacting sequences, but from a univariate case so.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So here I go back to the first slide on the Horn apoliona two colors. Imagine now that the addition that enforcement is random. So every time we pick a ball, we observe the color and we returned the ball along with a number WN essay of balls of the same colors. WMA Evolve along time or be random. This process may be a spread of contagion, but the individuals may have a different resistance. Or a capacity of being contagious? Or are surviving the disease so this process is not longer exchangeable? In fact, is not longer stationary and time cannot be ignored. This is a special family of generalized polygons with diagonal replacement matrix. Maybe more. OK, and as many applications, for example, for example in adaptive clinical trials so.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So in more general version of the same spirit could be not today to color, but infinitely many color possibly, but we still have a sort of weighted Chinese restaurant process where the probability of joining the table and if we don't want to, so the probability of joining a cluster or a table. Or it could be another network or being sick. Depends not only on the number of customers sitting at the table, but also underweight the influence authority, and indeed this class of models was introduced, studied, studied, is also expressed slightly differently by Bassetti cream. Ideal Asian has generalized pitches, sampling model and and this is a general form, but we have to specify the distribution of the weights. Of course the properties depend on how the random weights are defined, and so I rolled in the others. In my city, raising a rolling window near studied Ottawa, sequencing better ghost sequences where they specified probability law of this W and these are interesting processes because we can imagine all the applications of Chinese restaurant process use something formula or digital process and now introduce this sort of selection and competition mechanism through the weights.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And what kind of property have? Well, this process is are not stationary and and in general, and so no longer exchangeable, so. There is a in an interesting property that this sequence is may have to and say in the above predictive rule, when I attach the wait there, I would distinguish 2 cases. If the weight is Turner. If the waiter is independent on the on the color but depends only on the drone, then the process satisfies a condition that is written there. So the probability of the next observation or the probability of the next observation in case steps predicted probabilities are the same. So in this sense of the sequence are conditionally identically distributed. It's interesting that this property is a sort of marginal probability property. And is equivalent to. Exchangeability if this so this C ID property and stationarity together are equivalent to exchange ability. An you know way what we're saying is that, well, it doesn't matter. I skipped it.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So there are some properties I just don't go through this slide, but the story is that also this processes are not exchangeable. They preserve limit law of exchangeable sequences. So if we go back to my initials lights, we have the predictive distribution conversion to a random limit and conversions of the predictive implies the sequences are synthetical exchangeable, and then we can have again, for example, central limit theorems for the prediction errors and so. So that's this. Interesting processes to study, so I said there are two in the. This is when we have other enforcement the weight that doesn't depend on the color. If it depends on the color DC ID property is not. Exchangeable the sequence. It's not to see ID, but still a synthetic exchangeability. Another limit properties hold they would like.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
To mention that so we have a process is we are again predictive construction. If you want where we have an evolution, but will say the spread of a contagion or the spread of information 1005. OK, now I'm done spread of information spread of contagion. It's not symmetric that the path of Salvation don't have the same weight, they have different weights. So if I meet. Sick person, the probability that I get contagious could seek is not always the same. Whatever person have different with selection of competition. So the again we have. However this in touch. So what will be the limit on composition? What will be the limit the distribution population? So also these processes are not exchangeable, we can study their limit behavior, but the limit low unfortunately is not generally known. It's difficult to find and of course depends. On the structure of the weights. There is a result that I would like to mention because in a moment I'll go to my last slide with the conjecture that will be somehow inspired by this result. So suppose that I have. If you want to have a network and I'm considering instead of 2nd Lt I have nodes vertices in the networks and edges, and then this preferential attachment scheme that I was describing as polio wondering force process says that the probability that picking. A vote that the next to know there will be attached to an existing node depends on the degree of the degrees, the frequency know the degree of the node. So if we consider this randomly reinforced processes well with, we're thinking that there is a competition and so that if I have this network, the capacity of attracting another doesn't only depend on the number of friends I have Facebook say, but only on how authorative I am or I. Beautiful or whatever, so introduce schemes of contagious attachment, preferential attachment or or learning where we have this weights and this theorem is saying that of course they limit behavior. Depends on how the ways our weights random weights are constructed. So if we have a set of dominant call Orser edges or tables in a Chinese restaurant, that such that the expected value of the attached weight is mu bigger. Then all the others, then this tables edges or color, so will dominate and indeed the predicted probability of picking that color. I'm thinking here of cake or multicolor rainfall soon will go to zero for the non dominant ages and all the predicted probability will eventually be concentrated on the set of dominant ages. So they will be the only one to survive.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So I I mentioned this work that I'm doing with Sandra Fortini, so we said we saw we have we know we have exchange ability and partial DEFINITY partial exchangeability. We have this. Only reinforce processes with this condition identity. See ID properties. So natural question was to extend. Somehow paralleling this extension from exchange, beta, partial Exchangeability, Palace station, and go from ACID to a partially ID CI Dinos.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Shaun and so we found that we have developed this and again I just mentioned that this notion we give is not just having a dependent to see ID sequences, But we want it to be equivalent to partial exchangeability under stationarity. We give a synthetic result Central limit theorem for the frequencies or the joint sequence frequencies. So it doesn't matter. So I of course in 5 minutes don't will not go into this further. Last thing that I want to mention.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Ann, just want to arrive to the conjecture. I was pensioning before so I mentioned this sensibility definitive partial exchangeability market change ability and. Another very important notion of partial sensibility is hard decision Kahlenberg exchange ability that is referred to an array of random variables, and we have notions of separatist change ability. If we can permute the rows and the columns, or jointly if we can permute the roles of the columns with the same permutation, the reasons sort of similar analog of the DEFINITY representation theorem for exchangeable sequence or so for a columnist changeable. Sequences that is the basis of many statistical models for network. Random graph and so. But again, I knew I wouldn't have time to give any detail and that would be of course, maybe another foundational lecture for someone more expert than me. We had a call, so anyway, so I want us to mention something that is now fascinating and also know intriguing for many of us. So the reason is relation between the notion of. Row column exchangeable arrays jointless changeable arrays and random graphs. Random graph vertices. VND is exchangeable if its distribution is invariant under every permutation of the vertices, or equivalently adjacency matrix is joint leader column exchangeable?

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And that is beautiful and fascinating theory on large graphs and graph limits developed by Laszlo Lovasz. So great mathematician and menu, great collaborators that has strict connection with all the supercalender representation. And this is a well explained by, for example, in Diaconis and Jensen. Doors in the recent review by Urban Surroi. And then.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Urban. There is an issue that is now debated and haunt that despite many more, there's also one minute are. Exchangeable there. However, exchangeable graphs are either dance or empty, while real networks tend to be sparse and show power, low behaviors, and so our minds around, for example, say so. That means that the exchangeable models we use for networks are not realistic, and these are stimulated. Now, this problem is stimulated very interesting work around, and folks and others. So again, I hope that there will be talks in this conference that will be on this contributions I just finished.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So we have a little what is the English expression to censor my way of looking at this is related to the idea of randomly reinforce preferential attachment that I mentioned. See ID or quasi ID. So if I introduce a system of randomly preferential attachment, I can model selection in the competition or other forms of nonstationarity in the graph evolution. For random graph, it is known that there is an analogue of convergence of the empirical distribution in my 2 color soon was a convergence of the composition to settle into Theta. Here is a notion of chalkboard sayings and analogous for random graphs or convergence and empirical distribution. So if I'm not sure I mean to my knowledge I don't have a clear yet, maybe I don't, I'm not. Expert enough of the of the problem, but I don't have a clear analogue of convergence of the predictive distribution, but if we have so that we can use all these predictive schemes that have been bothering you with and maybe in this setting, maybe there are. The implications say some some work already exists, but my idea is that this could be a way of modeling and evolution of the graphs and using results. As I said about show that we indeed have an exchangeable limits, but on a set of dominating vertice is. And that suggests a conjecture. Maybe in this config.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
And so you will give me comments or just saying makes no sense and that's my last line. Thank you very much.
