[0.0s - 29.0s]
Ha. An application of Gaussian process temporal difference learning to a difficult control problem, high dimensional one, and if theory is the salad, then applications are the dressing and without dressing. The salad is a bit dry, so that's.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
That's our octopus. It's a pretty clever animal, but I'm not going to go into that because that will take me another hour. What's going on? How long one?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, my collaborators here are two undergraduate students. This was actually their undergraduate final project. In the Technion in Israel.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And you know all about me already. So let's let's go on South. The octopus Sam. It's it's quite a remarkable appendage. It can do you see the picture. It can bend and twist at any point along the arm, not just in. In joints like our arms, it can do it in any direction. It can be contracted and extended. It can change cross section both in size and shape, and it can grab using almost any part of the arm because it has those suction caps distributed along the entire arm and affectively, it has virtually infinitely many degrees of freedom. So as a robotic control task it's it's. Probably is difficult.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
As it gets. That's a the Physiology of the octopus arms, so the the way the octopus manages to do those incredible feats is by having an arm that is completely made up of muscles, intentan tendons with. There are no bones in the octopus arm, so this. White H from here. Is a bundle of of transverse muscles along the plane of the picture, so they sort of can contract the arm in the transverse directions. The white ligaments here are cultural bakola and they connect these transverse muscles to the outer surface of the arm and the dark patches between the trabecula are longitudinal arms that acts along the long axis of the arm. So these are the muscles that allow the arm to contract and. Yeah, to contract and extent on top of that there are oblique muscles that are on the surface of the arm and they allow the arm to do this kind of motion right? So it can do this if muscles on one side are contracted more than muscles on the other side it can extend and contract and it can.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Rotate. So we built a simple 2 dimensional model of the octopus sound which is based on a masses and Springs architecture. So the points here are point masses. They are connected by Springs, the Springs of the muscles in our model. Each compartment here is is constrained to maintain a constant volume because the octopus arm is made of solids and liquids in their uncompressible. And and. The way the octopus arm works, I mean, how does it manage without any any skeleton? Well, this constraint of the fixed volume that it has to be maintained locally in the arm basically. Substitutes for the skeleton, because if we if we look at my arm. For instance, if. If I want to, if I contract this muscle. Then my elbow. Sort of does this motion. And so this muscle there's an antagonist muscle, which is this one here, which does the opposite thing. So muscles can only apply force actively by contracting muscles don't sort of expand actively, so for every degree of freedom we need to an agonist and antagonist muscle and hear The Agonist and antagonists in the octopus are it doesn't work. Are the transverse muscles and longitudinal muscles, so. When a transverse muscle contracts the arm, the longitudinal muscles at least one of them has to extend in order to maintain this constant volume constraint. So that's sort of the analogue of agonist.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
To target his muscles in the octopus arm, muscle model is a simple spring based model where we are able to modulate the spring constant by turning the activation nob between zero and one. So when it's one we have maximum activation, maximum spring constant, and when it's zero we have some passive. Spring constant here and there is also. A dampening element to that. Expands energy.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Other forces that we model in our in our simulation now is gravity, buoyancy, water drag forces internal pressures that are required to maintain this constant volume constraint. The dimensionality of the control problem well, for instance for a 10 compartment, which is what I'm going to show you in the movies soon has 22 point masses for each one of those you have four variables, XY position and the corresponding velocities, which amounts to 88 state variables continue. State variables, so that's pretty high, at least in reinforcement learning stack.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The control problem is basically phrased as follows, starting from a random position. Bring either some part of the arm or the tip of the arm into contact with some target region, and this has to be done in. Sort of optimally, and what I mean by optimally, well, first, this time we wanted to do as quickly as possible, but we also want to wait in energy expenditure and in some cases we're going to have obstacles in the environment and we would like to avoid the obstacles. And the what makes it a reinforcement learning problem is that we only have access to sample trajectories. We don't have a model of the environment, although we do have a simulator. But we don't have a true model of the environment. And and what we do is basically to define this problem as a Markov decision process and solve it as a reinforcement learning problem with.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
GPS algorithm. So that's the sample task. Here is a goal region. This red circle here. That's the arm that's the base of the arm. This remains stationary. That's the tip of the arm, and we want the arm to touch with it. Steep this.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Goal region here. The actions here, the actions are. There's a finite number of actions, so there are six basic actions where the thickness of the line signifies how much the corresponding muscle is activated. So we have this action here. This action here Uniform action, a passive action and an action that sort of does one thing in the base of the arm and does something opposite in the near the tip of the arm and on top of that in some of the experiments we also add duplicates of actions 112. Four and five that have talk applied to the base of the arm, either positive or negative, so that adds up to about 14, I think 14.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Actions. The rewards plus 10 for reaching the goal state something large and negative for hitting an obstacle and minus one otherwise, and we also factor in. Quantity that quantify the energy expended by the arm. So, so we sort of. We want the arm to also be and.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Energy efficient. And now let me show you the movies. Hopefully it's going to work. OK. So that's the. First task a simple task. Oh OK, that's that's really the easiest task. The goal is pretty close. All the arm has to do is to swing the base. Here is fixed so the action space is rather small and all the arm has to do is to learn how to reach with its tip to the goal. So that's that's an easy one. Stop. Oh, come on. Then there is a slightly more difficult task. Which is. Which is this one where the. Oh, where the. Target is somewhat. More difficult to reach because it's further away, so the arm actually has to stretch itself to extend itself in order to reach the goal. And it does that because we didn't include an extending action, we just it was an oversight. So the arm learned to stretch itself simply by sort of whipping itself and then reaching the target. And then. And then we added obstacles. So that makes it a bit more interesting. So there is for instance. This one. Come on. OK, so here that the black circles are obstacles, so the arm has to avoid them. While also reaching the red target here, and it does that. Pretty well, surprisingly well actually. And finally, I'm going to show you one movie where the arm also fails occasionally. So you won't get out of here with the impression that we have a perfect learning algorithm. OK. So the black circle again is the obstacle. The red Circle is the goal, and you see that on some occasions the arm hits the obstacle. Here, for instance, that's a failure that was a failure. That's a success. That's a success. OK and one. Final thing that is interesting to show. Hopefully. Is a. So in the last few months I sort of continued working on this project with some with a graduate student at the University of Alberta. And we built a 3 dimensional model of the arm of an octopus arm. Here the number of degrees of freedom is in the hundreds already. And here's a. Short movie can you see something? Or is it too dark? So the red, the the white circle is the center of the goal region. And that's the arm here. Think it has about 20 segments, the hundreds of degrees of freedom, and this is while it learns. So in the beginning it it doesn't do very well, but as this movie progresses it improves. That's it, thank you very much. I hope you. Any questions? Yes. No, just searching around delete it for the first time and then gradually improving from there. Colonel do use. You'll have to ask my students. One announcement. The slides of this tutorial are gonna be available on online shortly. Possibility that will be that they recorded, but the slides are definitely.
