First talk with this morning is on discriminative parameter learning for Bayesian networks by chance to Harry, John, Charles, Ling, Stand My Twin and Genghis giving sort OK. Good morning everyone. The parameter learning is usually it's inner loop of their structure, learning. We'd like to see what's that was really know the difference between frequency, estimated discriminative frequency estimate and coded dissent method. What's the accuracy is different? And both of them their better than frequency estimate and add a boosting. Discriminative learning, discriminative frequency estimate is around 250,000 times faster than you are. Our experiment only some small data set with very strong dependency. And also the overfitting problem you called for the grid is a Mesa, you may. Generative learning does not have advantage of discriminative learning. In this paper, we introduce a private and learning method for basic network classifier. At this time, the method is very competitive with greedy discimus inaccuracy. I don't need one iteration to converge, and it's also insensitive to the overfitting problem. Actually, we mentioned the structure learning. The traditional private lending in based network classifiers. However, for the classification task, we know the objective function should be some discriminative function like generalization accuracy, conditional likelihood. And yeah, use the frequency estimate to learn the initial way instead of some random or just zero. They also use controller, grid, dissent and the line search to spit out there. Hi work graded. May be computationally expensive and Grossman in 2004. So this one called frequency estimate also much more likely. For example, the frequency of smoke equal to an or or Y equals to their frequency of gender equal to F, both of them the frequency there 3. And the frequency of smoke equal to end is not great. So our motivation is we try to discriminate if count frequency in data. Anne. For example, after this proceed discriminating frequency estimate procedure, the frequency of smoke equal to N or Y still equal to the frequency of the gender equal to F and the frequency of smoke equal to N is not great. This pattern is mean Diffie and every both of them they are influenced by the frequency information in data.