I will introduce a special class of matrices so called line distance matrices and study properties of their eigenvalues. How to find some similarities and differences between sequences and it is well known that finding optimal structural alignment between multiple DNA sequences is NP hard problem. Let's now LB align distance metrics defined by a vector T. And let again Li denote its principal submatrix is, and if we sort the eigen values so that the Lambda one is the largest and then Lambda two, Lambda, three and so on, the Lambda I. If we take vector T123, four and six, then the corresponding client distance matrix of size 5 is this matrix. And if we calculate the eigenvalues of its principal submatrix, we get first from the for the metrics zero of size 1 * 1. Discuss in the further work on the subject. First, let T be a vector of increasing elements T1T2TT N. And then we can define a line distance metrics as a metrics of differences between vector elements. So in the similar way we define also element Ji. We can study partial sums of eigenvalues because we know the largest eigenvalue is positive and then if we sum up. This also has have to be done to compare the existing methods and our method on some real life data and see how this results compare. If we take, for example, the first exon of the human beta globin gene, it starts as ATG GTG and so on. And for example, let us consider positions of G in this sequence. So we can tell something about the obvious properties of line distance matrices. Let a be symmetric, tridiagonal irreducible matrix and let A1A two til AN denote its principle. Sub matrices of dimension 1, two and so on till N. Then the eigenvalues of. Or from the previous level? If, for example, we want to determine the number of negative eigenvalues of the symmetric met symmetric tridiagonal matrix, then we can. Just easily count some sign changes in the given sequence, and this sequence is the sequence one determinant of the first principle submatrix determinant of the second principle submatrix, til determinant of the last principle submatrix that is in fact equal to the original metric A. If we calculate the corresponding diagonal determinant, we get 1 -- 1 -- 3 and four, and now we count the number of sign interchanges. Again, we have pushed interlacing property. And now it is known that the eigenvalues of two consecutive principal sub matrices interlace. So we do not have strict interlacing.