[0.0s - 29.0s]
People I'm presenting today is a more conventional view on what the work will look like in 10 years. A colleague of mine will present in the afternoon or more non conventional view on that. That web of within 10 years. So what do we think the web will look like in 10 years? It will be a truly readwriteweb, OK for machines as the next generation web. And why do we think that? Actually if you look at the evolution of the web, it's straightforward. The first version of the web was human readable and then the second version of the Web there. Humans could write and collaborate with each other. Currently we are pouring semantic technologies into the web so become machine understandable. So the natural evolution will be that machines could write to your data and that do we see as the next version actually of the web. But there.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Awesome prerequisites before the web becomes actually truly retried.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
First of all, we need the link data principles. At this moment they're only focusing on how to make actually the web machine readable, but not how how you can actually update that that information. So what we believe is actually that those principles will need to be extended with information on how you can actually modify that data. And this is actually what the linked data Platform Working Group is actually working on. The preferred way will be a restful way, of course.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Next is actually data provenance and trust. The moment actually data changes alot. Provenance will become very important at the moment. Machine start writing to your data. You will want to know actually what they did it and why they did it. And that's where actually provenance comes into becausw at the moment. A lot of those datasets are actually quite static, but once you allow actually machines to write to your data it becomes very dynamic actually and it will change. Yeah, under the hood and you want to know actually what happened to your data. If you look at it and it has changed and why. And once we have that actually you could have like independent proof checkers or provenance checkers who actually are actually able to do some whatever metric they use, But they're able actually to give you some indication of how trustworthiness actually your data is, and that will become very important at the moment. Actually, let machines actually interpret an right to your data. Now, of course we also need.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Some data permissions. You cannot allow every anything to write to any piece of your information. You need actually data permissions. And actually if you look at, read, write semantic Web, it's actually a tree fault problem. First of all, you will have to be able to discover your resource you want to tell something about it. Then you need to discover actually OK. Can I actually reuse that data? And if you can reuse it, then you can actually write to that data, but you of course you need to know how can you access that piece of data. And then finally, when you write that piece of data, you have to actually enable to enforce or this discover what people can do on machines can do with that piece of data once it has written. So it's actually about the data permissions. And we will need actually functional descriptions.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
There are at this moment alot of a lot of yeah web services out there and they were actually yeah lot of web APIs but they don't always describe actually the functionality they do in a machine readable way. So we will actually need functional descriptions and they will need to actually support rest APIs and they will need to support actually. Yeah, the functionality they will have to describe this functionality in a machine readable way, and this will also allow to compose it. Actually any any number of actually web APIs. So we need actually to grab the functionality of certain web API's.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Now, what is actually the impact of truly readwriteweb?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
First of all, datasets datasets will become highly dynamic at the moment. There are quite static and there are some errors in. There aren't kept up to date. Some of them lack some links to other data sources and actually when the web becomes the semantic web truly becomes read write. Those datasets will become actually highly dynamic. So that's actually something that is changing an. In an ideal world to the human, the human readable, writable web is actually a view on the machine. Readable writable web. An if you can keep that up to date. Actually what you have is actually a uniform interface on the web.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So even more static than the datasets today are actually the ontologies we are using, and we believe that in the future even ontologies will become writeable. Machines will be able to correct ontologies or maybe based on some ontologies. They will at runtime just compose their own ontology for certain application targets. So this is what we also believe that ontologies will also become writable and will also become more and more dynamic. And not as static as today. And then the web server.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Is at this moment. Web services are more and more being replaced by the more lightweight web APIs which claim to be restful, but actually there are more like functional function oriented and actually that has to become resource oriented. And once you have that you actually don't have a gap anymore between wrap resources and web APIs, it all becomes uniform and you don't know anymore if there is something in the back calculating your result or it's just out there in a database and it just pops up so so actually that gap won't exist anymore. So we believe that actually in the future the web services will need to be resource oriented fully restfully. And then reasoning.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
What happens if your datasets become highly dynamic? At the moment they are quite static and you can do some monotonic or non monotonic reasoning on it. But actually what happens with your datasets becomes highly dynamical. Lots of people they will think. OK, I will use the nonmonotonic logics to do some reasoning on that, but we believe it will remain monotonic. But in order to keep actually monotonic reasoning in a non monotonic environment like that. Damaged datasets you will have to reason on a snapshot of that data set, so actually you will need to be able to if I refer to the provenance you will need to be able to reason on a certain version of your data, so actually and that way you can keep actually reasoning monotonic in a non monotonic environment. So this is what will happen to reasoning then. So.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
What happens we? I have taken actually 2 at.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Vacation areas right where that read, write semantic web will have a huge impact on. First of all, I've taken a web of things at the moment. Machine agents they are actually interacting with lots of data that's out there on the web, but with the web of things. Actually, that information could come off real real things in the world like a temperature sensor or something like that. So at the moment that happens. Reason is and stuff like that will be able to count in real world information that's being poured in, and even those things they will come. Also Rep resources and if you have something like a temperature sensor it will only need re taxes. But for instance if you have a light bulb you want to turn it on and off and then you will need to write actually also to a team resource so so actually by a truly readwriteweb. And the web of things. Anything will get integrated to each other. So actually it will become more and more uniform. You don't know anymore whether all that data will actually come from, but you will actually use real world information in your reasoning tasks. And this is. And this is actually where this is actually where the web of things will come into place. Another thing is actually advanced personalization.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Information is becoming very scarce is becoming overabundant, but if you look at the economics of attention then the attention that information gets will be become more and more scarce. So how do you? How do you solve that? Actually, by using actually advanced personalization. For instance, if you have a look at at this moment at all different social networks, everybody has a profile in all these networks, but those profiles they can actually not be used across social network boundaries. What if you actually are able to combine all that profile information? And you can store it actually on one place and machine agents from different social networks can write to it, and you give actually permission to those social networks to use certain pieces of your profile, and they can update certain pieces of your profile. You get a much more which profile information, and if you look at for instance recommendations, they will become more powerful. Because they will have a lot more information than they do have now. Now they only have like information to small piece of your overall profile information. But what if you're actually machine agents could could write to your static data? Like OK, your gender the the place you're living at and things like that. But they can also right through. They can also write actually too, so you know more dynamic information. For instance, the tweets you are doing, your click behavior on Netflix for instance, and it all becomes stored in one place. And actually, that's the profile that you are actually managing. But other social networks can use it and can write to it, or even your social graphs. Everybody has some LinkedIn connections. Everybody has some Facebook connections, but your total social graph is actually. Very disparate at about. What if you can all bring it into one place and this is actually where truly read? Wide semantic web can can help in. Actually, in empowered, empowering the user in his profile information. So this is actually. My talk actually. It's a very conventional view on the future of the semantic web. But we do believe that it will have a huge impact on many different areas and it will help actually in making the web more uniform as it is today. So if there are any questions, thanks.
