[0.0s - 29.0s]
So I'll be speaking about the integration between gene expression DNA copy number like unit for speaker in session so.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Jump right into it, so I assume you know everything now, but the DNA copy number data in the gene expression maker. I'll be assuming that it's measured with the old platform Sir. Just erase like array CGH Anna expression ranks. I'll be interested to integrate integrating those two data types, which is kind of straightforward in the sense because they are linked by the central dogma theology and from the central bookmark theology. I've been told biologists kind of deduced that they have expected certain relationship, and that's it. If you have a increase in a copy number, you will see increased expression levels and vice versa, which is reducing a copy number you. See reduced expression levels if you look in today that is more or less is the case for most genes, but there are exceptions to farm before. Mention the type of experiment that I'll be considering, and it's very important to mention that there is no experimental design underlying these studies, and So what actually happens is that they have somehow collection of samples which either is just selected by venom patients that come into the clinic and everything that's available, they stop. They put in this study or raise a tissue bank from which they have taken samples, but there is no particular order designed and. They have a certain number of samples for each sample. They measured both molecular levels.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Very few issues. Before I still available, I want you to keep your mind. One is that if you're analyzing a copy number data encoding just pointed out and is that you use the genomic order. So Indiana copy number data you want to find the breakpoints or where on the genome is a change point. So changing to the end copy number aided by taking the spatial structure into account. As far as I'm aware, this is not something that happens. Any emails with gene expression, or at least. Early in this integration analysis, where you also use expression data, I will take this into account for speaking. Very important, very handy too.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
To exploit. Another issue I want you to keep in mind is that she can do analysis you integrative analysis on three. Well let's say levels, uninsured levels to correct work, but perhaps statistically this the correct word and the first level that you can use is it can analyze your data at is at the level of the gene. Simple univariate analysis. An alternative and this will be focusing on is at the level of the region. After them define water region is only find it as a set of contiguous genes that have the same DNA copy number data over all the samples in your data set. So this is something that is that you have to determine from the data at hand and may vary between different datasets. How did they find the regions? That's not something I will discuss about their several algorithms out there and mark after me will work will give one of them. You can also analyze data at the level the pathway this is just to contrast pathway. I'll be fine instead of jeans that originate from all over the genome and there are determined by literature or previous knowledge from experience. So, but I'll be focusing on the regional analysis, and perhaps you could summarize the main message after talk. Is that if you wanted to do integrative analysis to find these relationship relationships running by not focus on regions, but there has been a learning curve that I.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
I went through and I want to see what I can convince you of doing that. So the first time I work with asked to do searching data analysis of such a data set, I'll just ask doing the University analysis and we have a problem that you have to solve. In the beginning you have to match those two datasets if they are from different platforms without this more. Detail overall can be very yeah, very terrible to go through. But then the real which is mainly wanna look at search for, is potential new tumor suppressor. An uncle genes and uncle. These two you can more, let's say an rate to the original hypothesis they have is that an Uncle gene is more less defined by an increase in the DNA copy number and an associated increase in the gene expression levels. Whereas the tumor suppressor gene is then defined the other way around. If you have and decrease in the in a copy number day today. Expect the decrease in the gene expression data, so this is more or less what they wanna look like. Or you could formulate the statistically you want to find a monotone relationship or concordant relationship.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
On the way round. Let me show you the results of one of such an analysis. Here you see from the top to the bottom you see all the chromosomes. Remove the sex chromosomes and and those horizontal bars. Then represent the line there. The length of the chromosome and all the protocol intersecting bars are features on the array. Answer It could be safe. Let's say jeans right in those vertical lines there. Again, if course they degrade red or green an if they're great. They're not significant analysis. If there green, their potential uncle genes, or do you have an increase in DNA copy number and increase associated increased expression and the right ones are then potential tumor suppressor genes. So one thing is really striking is that there are a lot of. Red and green ones, but the more I think more important thing is that phrase. If you look at the one cube. So at this point it's so weird it's arm. You see that there's a lot of green going on. Also some grades of course, but if you look closer into the data, it's really one. Q is gained in 40% of the samples an it's a normal. So in that almost all of the other samples. This is kind of suggestive, but we'll get to that in a second if I've been quite a few of these analysis Re ologist an he got a long list back as a realist and there was always fine until this rheologist came up to me saying, OK, thank you for the long list, but I have a problem. And then we showed me in his list going his favorite gene and is not significant. Then it was due to this horrible multiple testing correction. So well here again today and got it all my empathy together and it's at, you know, shit happens, so Lucas said, well, you know now I understand you right? So he was he was with me still we didn't want to do anything that I do really didn't want me to sell my soul with him. He said look at the data carefully right there is this small region. It was really looking at an application. Anne. Edward, bless it engines will us an out of those jeans 9 role significant except his favorite one is for the favorite genus of work, indeed striking instead, I have World Series evidence that this particular gene is actually driving this is region or this amplification that is this one that humor needs to develop certain favorable properties except this is not possible to kind of tweak your analysis. Can solar solar say, but it's your answer, so you can actually say that this indeed is included in the analysis hold. There would be nice in my paper etc. So OK.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Start thinking and the first thing you can do is you can look at such a Regency. OK, there is a one thing underlying so they all have the same DNA copy number, signature. Those jeans and amplification and what you think and think. So I'll let those jeans in the analysis borrow information from one another so you can do some kind of shrinkage there. This was what I kind of an ad hoc approach to solve this problem. Right at the moment you need to be pragmatic in consultations and so this is at the time solve the problem, but I did the analysis and it was all just was happy, but then you continue your thinking. Isn't it possible to do one analysis rather than you know, done analysis where you borrow a little bit from each other so that possible to do analysis off of the region itself, right? Especially because almost all the genes major origin jeans in regions are affected in a similar way here. This kind of motivates this this whole thing. Today

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Then let's let's look closer at the data, and I looked at two amplifications in data set. And what I did is I took an amplification Anna few genes around there and it took the only expression data I have and what it is for each pair of jeans in these applications I correlated their expression and that's what you see here. You see on the axis you see the genomic order. So this is Gene 1, Gene 25 or something. And this is the same order, right? So what you see here is actually a correlation matrix and you see. These and correlation metric has been color coded, an high correlations that close to one are like Blue Ann to correlation at zero are black and the negative ones are yellow 20. Clearly see you set around the amplification. There's a real blue box and all the genes, their highly correlate and outside they don't correlate with those jeans in the amplification. Same here similar story. This is nothing new. I don't read much of the biological literature, but then I started searching and many people really notice that that. I wasn't aware.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So if you don't go on to work and of course is up. So I thought if that happens. I want to see that in a virtual patient at the then it's very difficult to see that it's very noisy data. So what you see here is a copy number. Profiling here gene expression profile. But if you look closely, for instance at an amplification and think this early 2 amplification, you'll see that on average, right? If I think this is the copy number data of taking the segmented data from computer, use the same definitions and average expression in those segments and you see that these. This copy number data gene expression 8 times rather concordance. So even if in one sample these kind of average, you'll see that.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
This is the case. So now in summary, so one thing I hope to have kind of make possible is that you can have regional Co expression and that may be due by the name, copy number changes. Other things may also causes the common transcription factor or maculation. It's another goal of what I want to do is can I develop a test to test for regional codes function associated with the unique copy number data while they can go?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
I'll show other reasons, so I will show you the three ingredients of the model, then do more but more formal things. One ingredient is you can assume that if the older jeans have the same DNA copy number data, so they have the same signatures there. You want to assume that they had a share. In fact, they are affected in identical way. This is of course too stringent, but this is the first ingredient to relax.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Honest, you allow that. They vary around these shared effect. So if you see here, June one has a particular effect between two has a different effect than G1 and so on, but on average they vary on this around this share effect. But individually they may go different way, so that will be the second ingredient.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The third ingredient is that there are other causes, like the common transcription factor and activation order. Them assume is that the residual gene expression sodas corrected for DNA copy number data. There might be correlation structures in there also, causing regional coach pression. And those might be attributable to common transcription factor, but I assume that these error structure I have is and correlated in the model. So looking at this now we more.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Formal. Alicia, I'll start pretty simple. So if you know about linear regression you should be should be fine. So I have here to gene expression data and conditional on the design matrix and the design matrix contains DNA copy number later, but possibly also intercept or other things that are constant over jeans in the region as a model built by a simple linear model incorporate the prior knowledge of the biologist. And there was concordant relationship written relationship between DNA, copy number data, gene expression. By including linear parameter constraints. So can I do that for one gene I can do to fold the genes in regions and this is just cosmetics, right? I'll do stack those linear regression equations, but fitting them. I only do it one by one and assume that the error is normal and is uncorrelated between those.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Alexa equations. So that's nothing yet, so I want to do multivariate analysis. Want to do analysis of 1 region rather individual genes. Well can say the first step will be. Let's correlate the aerostructure so wanna do here is I have the errors in our correlate them, but I'll leave each gene to have its own effect size and there. I'll be out there now, specified at those residuals I had before. Recording through particular covariance matrix. At first I thought you had to do simple by doing a unit uniform correlation for all pairs of jeans, but later discovered you can do anything you want with first rate illustration purposes. I'll stick to this one. So moving on, so did you still? I mean sure model or something that is well known in econometrics. You unfortunately don't get any gain much in this particular setting. We only gain more efficient estimates of your beat us up here and it's due to the fact that you assume that the design matrix for all genes is the same. So we have the same DNA copy number data and so OK. I can do this will be very thin eligibility. Don't game much. So can we then modify this Model 2?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
At least game something. Yes we can. Voting. For this I will replace those effect sizes I have here those Vita Chase. My this particular expression, which is an fixed effect which is this beta bardis, represents that the shared effect I had before both random component and is represents the heat rejection ET you can have any effect sizes of the individual genes within this region, so this typical here. So you have to fix effect sizes beta bar and you have to random things that jeans. Differ from each other in effect sizes too. The DNA copy number to all. I have to tell what I do with my primary constraints. They're still there, but I'll keep him only for the fixed effect size only in fixed effect size. I'll make sure that there is a component relationship on for the random effects. I don't right, so I've just assume a normal distribution and they may then have negative effect sizes. This is not something necessarily know who is also doing. If you know yet humans work on the global test he this is at the basis of his test 2. So if we do this right to be in Co.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Operators in the shore model you get such a model it looks horrendous, but yet your attrition data here you get your fixed effect size data. Here you get the random effects thing and you get your correlated error structure here. It isn't it terrible because see if you now calculating the covariance matrix of this model after some linear algebra, you can show that it's actually expressed relatively simple as a chronic of some, and that will be helpful later on. 301

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Estimate this model. Don't probably with the details, but it's a lot of linear algebra. You first have to deal with the prominent constraints. That's just a nuisance. You can do, thereby creating programming, and we also run into the problem that the coverage matrix incredibly large. It's as a science of the numerous samples times the number of genes and the number of samples. Can these days easily 100 and the regions can be 200. Say my desktop computer couldn't handle it, so I had to work my way around that, and unfortunately that's where the chronic or some comes in. You can kind of. After some linear algebra you can decompose it tricky manner, but it also after an after death I ran into confessional problems. Considerations were relatively long before it converged, so also did some tricky things there to come up with two step procedure to speed up this convergence. Afterwards you get a maximum likelihood estimate that is still consistent. At least thing you can require from estimate, but it took a lot of. Annoying idiot linear algebra.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So the. The final thing I know, you suppose you fit the model. What is it you want to test? Ride there free hypothesis I think are of interest. The first day that there's a new DNA copy number effects. So that means that the fixed effect is zero. That feature genie individual. The random effects are also zero. First is that you have shared effect and 1st as you have a shared effect and jeans may have individual effects so. One of these equals course have to be strict there, but. We test this with a likely Rachel statistic and unfortunately we have to the P value calculations with sampling. That's why we had to speed up the estimation procedure as basically due to the fact that you have all these inequalities. Here is that synthetic distributions become may in some cases maybe come into intractable. Resort to resort.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So let me give one example for fishing is that this is a birthday to breast cancer data set at 85 samples in there, both copy number data and gene expression data. First racial profile pic. The region on 16 P which has almost 150 features and this region is gains in almost let's say 1/3 of this happens if you make this coalition matrix again, it's. We see that I've made previously. See that's predominantly blue. That means that there is a high correlation between most of the expression in the jeans. There are some some yellow bars or some jeans, not fee. Coordinating with the rest, but.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So, you know, analyzes the the main result you get. This is stable down here. These are just several estimation methods that we tried and let's just focus on one right? So here we have 3 CR 3 tests that you have. You see the old bill really significantly in this particular region what you have then as you see here is all the you see here. The 150 features in your region. You see that. UNA variant effect sizes, so that's a University analysis that our product here. These effects scientists and their red bar here is to fix the facts I so that's really kind of average of the individual effect sizes. This is not necessary confidence interval these dashboards, but it's taken as random effect parameter which is. Variance component I've taken that standard deviation from it an multiplied by two and you get kind of a confidence interval, but it gives you more less variation in which the individual effect sizes may vary or you expect them to vary. And indeed this kind of aligns nicely with the University of Analysis. The last thing I want to remark is that what you also get back is this role here. That's the remaining residual correlation that you get from your covariance matrix, and while you see it's not zero, so there seems to be some remaining Co expression, but I have no indication whether that's due to anything, but it's at least something you get back from your analysis.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And then we also hope, convinced you that you can do the analysis at the level of the region and that we grew up. Thank you. Questions please. Paul. So really nothing wrong. Guys was really nice talk. Hoisted up to the chair now what do I ask? So what other competing methods do you have that you could compare against? Him. I don't want to be seen show simulations as well. The reviewer wants to see in and think you care. You care much about Italy compared to Gene set test code, global ancova by German guys. And it's a we did it in a simulation setting because there you know exactly what happened. So I want to show it, but I didn't know. Didn't expect at first. I didn't think about it, but later logical is that gene so fast is really good in picking up the fixed effect size and not hit Regina D. So random effect sizes today was kind of thing. You could show that were better. By doing a better job in finding the fixed effect size and then also picking up the additional thing. Good if there's no other questions. Thank you again.
