The first part is going to talk about linear algebra and vector spaces and this stuff. An obviously your usual basis in RG is an Arsenal in the North, so normal basis. For example, in L2 of zero 2π, then we've seen that this is a basis, and it's actually an ortho normal. It's absolutely sorry. Is that if you want to find the coefficient of the decomposition, it's really easy. For example, the equation of the hyperplane or the distance from a point to the disciple plane or. Minus one that products to compute to compute the projection of X on the hyperplane. On top of that, you can see that because you have this nice property that the the square of the norm is too. The last thing that is written on this transparency, which is actually the first thing, is that because when H is in the neiper pain, then using its supplementary you may find an equation of of eight, which is really easy. This makes here is the distance of X to my hyperplane, which is exactly the length of this dot product of the projection on the Y axis, right OK? So the main matrices matrix in R. With MM Rosen D column D columns is an array of numbers of real numbers. It's actually an array made made of. Actually, you may also see a matrix as your as a representation of an operator that goes from our D2 RM OK. And the first writing tells you basically that the output of the operator applied to X is a vector that is in the span of the column vectors of you OK. So I write matrixes with timelines and D columns as in in in in a more compact way as you see on the right side there and what you can see is that basically the set of matrices in with emeralds and the current is a vector space OK. I haven't, I didn't write it there. The product by a real real number is multiplying each entry of the matrix by the Screener number. When the matrices are square, so there is the same number of rows and columns, then you may find matrices that are invertible for the product. Some some matrices are easier to understand, for example diagonal matrices. Other matrices that are easier, easy to deal with are upper or lower triangular matrices. Also, symmetric matrix matrices are are of importance. When can you invert a matrix? OK now you can see for lower or upper triangular system the same condition apply. Then you can easily check that a is invertible if and only if AD minus BC is non zero and that the inverse is the one that I gave you up there. If you want to know if it if a matrix or dividing matrix is invertible, you have to find its determinant which is written this way. Then this formula says the determinant is the sum of AI. So the eigenvalues of a matrix or. She is the eigenvector associated to the eigenvalue. Obviously the eigenvalues are the diagonal element, and it's not true for triangular matrices, right? Um, Zero is an eigenvalue if and only if it is not invertible, and we think that is diagonalizable if there exists a basis of eigenvector which can be written as if you put your, your eigenvectors are columns as columns of a matrix P. Then the products P * D * P -- 1 is actually exactly equals 2, eight or. In addition, we say that a symmetric Smith symmetric matrix is semidefinite positive if the dot product between X&Y axes always positive for any vector. And the matrix is set to be definite positive. Only strictly positive I can values again the diagonal matrix with positive entries that are not serious then is definite positive an if. If it can be written as a product B, transpose B and is invertible, then it's definite positive. It gives you a new norm on H. And so you can think of everything as your you can think of your vector space. Let's say B is an M by the matrix and using for example B transpose B or B * B transpose, which we've seen are symmetric semidefinite positive matrices. You can also write the same thing for B * B transpose in RM Now. This this writing is the singular value decomposition of B and that the value Lambda 12, Lambda key or its singular values. Then X = B may be solved in two steps. Yeah, the first the first step is to solve for LLZ is equal to be where you look for the and you have be your your target vector. Um? For symmetric semidefinite positive matrices there. Now the last decomposition here is the QR decomposition. If you have a set S, it's called a vector space. If the addition is a stable operation. SMS Seven element 40 addition. Or any scalar I wrote? Similarly if you take a family of vectors in S, you can generate a vector subspace from this in these vectors. 1/3 of V. 2 W is equal to the nerve vector. The The Cardinal of the largest family of vectors that is linearly independent in the subspace. OK, some subspaces that may be useful, or hyper planes and their define as subspaces of of your origin vector space, which have a supplementary of dimension exactly one. So now basically a basis of a of a subspace is generative and linearly independent family. So the DOT product in Audi is the usual dot product we've seen before and it's linked to the Euclidean norm in already. OK, so if you have a vector space with the dot product then any subspace of it as a unique orthogonal supplementary. So a Hilbert space is a vector space where you have a dot product and Additionally the space is closed for the norm that is yielded by the DOT product.