[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you for coming and my name is James Garner from Sony Corporation today directly introduced new recommendation algorithm with great originality based on graph mining techniques and we called tangent and this is joint work. Hampton and Christmas follows us from Connie University.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So, effective recommendations are arguably have been studied for many decades, and some of them, such as collaborative filtering, have been already deployed on many services, and most of them are focusing on their improving the accuracy of recommendation. But our motivation is something different from this viewpoint. For example, let's think about recommender system for movie download services. If we can recommend movies which are close to you that preference, but also and also broaden users, Verizon, they can create more chance to increase sales of movie downloads. So this algorithm is trying to. Surprise users by going off on a tangent, which algorithms transform?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And this PDF shows what our algorithm aims for an we are going to recommend movies for user A. This is a comedy fans and. Conditional recommendation argument will recommend movies which have been watched by multiple comedy fans, but. Are tangent is trying to find movies that have been watched by other movie fans as well some committee funds? So because there they have high possibility to introduce other category movies for user.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Solid graphite

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Program on this program definition and we assume that there is a movie rating information. This information tells us that who watched that movie and how interesting this is there, and given this information, we can construct such bipartite graph. Nodes are no dripping present. Users and movies and edges are weighted based on rating information.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And the problem problem definition would be if we are given an ETA weighted undirected graph G with urgency matrix A and the set of query node queue. In case of this bipartite graph, the query would be a user who gets recommendation. And the goal is to find the node that which. It is close enough to query Q and also high potential to each are each other.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So let's go to the details.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This algorithm. So here is the outline of tangent algorithm. First we calculate the ribbon score of each node to query Q. Beat. And next we complete the bridging score of each node and reaching score represents the degree of connectivity to other groups. And finally we merged these two criteria and compute Tangent score. So which means the load with which has High Raven score and also high bridging score get the high tension score.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So first step is computing driven score so. We can apply any any algorithm to compute ribbon score, but we'd like to claim that random work restart, which is proposed by appearing in 2004, is a good solution. We might use other methods, like shortest path that show this person recounts the one single path with the fewest steps between nodes. Random Walk Research takes into account or possible paths between nodes with penalizing their father plus. And another automatic would be be there is there are various scalable solution to get the ribbon score matrix R.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And the second step is computing breathing score so. Between this proposed by framing, 1977 will be one of the solution, but it requires a completely different computation, so we'd have to get it in a fast way. So our idea is to reuse the ribbons coremetrics out, which can be obtained in the first step. And the intuition of the this method is to reuse by this reducing driven score. And this idea is. Inspired by the work by signing 2005 and this. The intuition is that if node is connected in one group, the neighbor relevance score of its neighbors are largely 'cause they are in the same group. So which leads that small region score? But the node is connected to various groups. Ravens score among neighbor among its neighbors are small becausw. They're in a different group so quickly, and this really large breaches.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Or so the detail is pick up no Dan take the extracted Raven score of its neighbors and constructs such sub ribbons coremetrics among neighbors and take the mean of all non diagonal elements of its subregions coremetrics and get the bridging score by inverting.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And then final step is complete tangent score. So after several trials such as linear combination in Skyrim, querying and so on, we found that simple multiplication works very well and we'd like to mention that this this score means that the ratio between Ribbon Squad to query node. And the Ravens score among neighbors.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And a drag to show hydrated. So explain how tangent works by showing the. Showing the score on this synthetic graph. In this case, the query node is not one. So first ask for even score and know to have the highest variance score. And that's for a bridging score. Note 5 has the highest bridge score Becausw notify based connecting these two groups. And putting these or scored into tangents, core nodes three and four has a high standard score, which means the Note 3 and Note 4 is in the same group. The query node and also they have a connection to other groups.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Now let's move on to the experimental results on synthetic data and real data. And. Because of the time time constraint is we, I'm going to skip the blpi data. The result of GPS data set. So if you're interested, please check Omar.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Power paper. So first we try on a synthetic bipartite graph and. This has four groups and we try 3 queries. First we run query on node one. The node 16 has a higher standard score. It makes sense. And we if we try a query on Note 5, the node 20 has the highest tangent score, not know the 16 decodes, no. 20 is breaking more groups than node 16, so no 20 is considered to be a better bridging load. And finally, and we run on. Run a query on North 2012 and no twenty had his highest_

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Also makes sense. And let's move on to the real data so we try ex experiments on movie length, which is real movie rating data distributed by Group Group Group Length in University in Minnesota. And we built a bipartite graph with 900 users, 6000 movies and 55 rating information. And we also assume that there is a user who love horror movies such as. Nightmare on Elm Street, the Shining and Joes.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And here is the result. Here's a rank list for both riven score and tangent Square, and we use ribbon score as a reference algorithm. As you can see. The long long list by Raven Score has a 6 horror movie out of top 10 movies. On the other hand, the tangent is giving 3 horror movies on out of top 10 movies, so content is still keeping horror movies, but. Target is recommend is recommending four other cross category movies such as Star Wars Fargo got further in context, so this result shows that tangent is still keeping some horror movie, but try to introduce some cross category movies. And we also try exponent on the imaginary user who love slapstick movies such as Robin Hood, Men in Tights, Young Frankenstein and Fire Incident. So as you can see, so ribbon score gives 8 comedy movies out of 10. The tangent is has six comedy movies, so also still have some comedy movies, movies. But surprisingly content is trying to recommend 88 new cross category movies such as Star Wars, Return of the Jedi Princess, Bride, Toy Story and so on. So this result is a more drastical than the previous result. But it still has a. Target is trying to keep them in their concept. Trying to have a say, some saying comedy movies, but trying to introduce some other category movies.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So let's move on to the conclusion. So we define a Nobel recommendation problem of how to make a recommendation that program the user horizon. So, and our approach is to find the node which is close enough to user preference and also have high connectivity other groups and we also introduce algorithm which is composed of computing the relevance Score rating score and this is carefully designed to have effectiveness and efficiency. And we also try experiment on see the synthetic data set and release to set an it so it meets our goal.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So thank you for coming again and code is available on my website, and if you're interested if you have connection, please come to my poster tonight. Thank you very much. Try again. So this looks like an algorithm to ensure diversity in recommendation. Is there some? Is there a formal optimization function you can write that it's trying to optimize? Oh, you mean? What's the formal optimization function? It's this is trying to optimize actually this?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
This argument is trying to have less parameter for for this argument, 'cause it doesn't take, I mean. Tedious work to find the right parameters, so we want to try to. Harbor less parament parameters. So in this viewpoint, so we don't have so much flexibility or. Make the tuning so so it's kind of different viewpoint I think. Any other questions? Happy by user but. It's very hard to evaluate, and so yeah, we have to think about it a little more and we're going to have to work on the variability of variation. Parking for future. Question. Oh cool. So so for our data set we. Proposed we show this a little more than that and we also try some larger data set and it's the same. The result is the same but mean. Order

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Care baby, it depends on this sunny here with solution. So it depends on learning their shape or structure of the graph so. We have all going through. You have to think about this theory be having more. Easily random rule based algorithm, so it's based on available easy algorithm based on the relevance score. So is I think this different argument.
