So we've heard a lot over the past few days about statistical relational learning and it's alphabet soup and question is what all these formalisms have in common? My answer today is that they all took a lot of sweat to implement. Now that's probably not the answer you're expecting, so I'll give you another one, which is none of these formalisms is the last story. So when somebody has a toolkit or if they have, you know a system like alchemy for mark of logic networks, they are usually trying to get you to design your system in a particular way. It's one level down. It's one level lower you could build. So there's a bunch more beyond this talk. So I'm going to start with a quick sketch here. See if B or C changes than a will change as well, OK? OK, so so let's get a little more interesting. Here we have scalar multiplication, so this is now pointwise multiplication of two vectors. OK, pointwise multiplication. Well, if we Levi off here then a is a sum overall be a vittime see of high I is free on the right hand side so we sum over it's possible values. And it's useful that this might not have to be integers. OK, good, so you probably see now if you know Prolog, what we're up to. Prolog has horn clauses means there's one thing on the left, several things on the right, and if you prove these things then you can prove that an all we're doing here is replacing these by what I like to call Horn equations. So AIK is proved if by J&CJK is proved, but not only do we prove it, but we prove a value for it. This plus equals is maybe aggregating over zero or one or many things if it aggregates over 0 things, then this hasn't proved, so it has no value. It's unlike prologue and the terms have values. OK, so I want to say just a couple more words about these aggregation operators, so we've seen plus equals. Right, there's no backtracking, so we don't have cut for example, so I'll show you in a minute how we get around the need for something like cut so every ground term has a single aggregation operator, so you can't mix these. The program is important, so: equals is like is like override the last thing wins and this is particularly important if you want to be able to replace values of axioms at runtime. There are many intellectual debts here, so in natural language processing there's been a lot of work on deductive parsing and weighted deductive parsing, where you have a bunch of words and you want to make them coherent two phrases and eventually into a sentence, and I'll show you how that plays out, and I know soon, but that was kind of my starting point. There was a tradition of deductive databases in the 80s and 90s. Not much work on that anymore, but I'm also indebted to that there's been a lot of work in theorem proving where you start with facts, and again you do some kind of forward chaining inference. A lot of work in probabilistic programming languages, some of the things we're doing for efficiency like mode system have been done elsewhere. OK, so now I'm going to show you some examples, but first I want to give you the big picture of why I think this is a good abstraction level. This problem isn't limited to SRL. But for other kinds of structured models, so our models tend to be various kinds of probabilistic grammars, and our algorithms generally involve dynamic programming or approximations to that. So here's how I usually think about building a system. We want to come up with some equations to compute. And the observation is that well, beyond our community, what most programs are doing. At least programs without side effects is computing some values from other values, and the order in which you do that is immaterial. You're just computing values from other values. OK, one thing you have to do to make this sufficient is to quickly figure out what influences what, so maybe you've got some big state space and reinforcement learning and you want to figure out quickly what moves are available to and what states you can get to. These equations could be cyclic. Some programs also need to update the outputs of the inputs change. So what I'd like to do is by using these mechanisms is to support some of the common threads in NLP SRL knowledge representation and reasoning, data mining, graph mining and so on. These are structured objects and you need to be able to structure them. So the easiest one is, you know, tag, you're it were approved. So now you're approved also, so that's just that's bottom up inference. There's probabilistic inference, so in something like Prism you are trying to keep track of the total weight of all proofs of a proposition. Good, so that's a long list. One thing that's very important is deciding which messages to send and when, so you can do bottom up from the data that's forward chaining. Then you have a problem of which messages to pass first in the unweighted fragment, like Prolog. Then you have to decide what to memorize and whether you memorize it forever. OK, so in the prototype that we had a C++ API to this, and here's how it worked. So here what we're doing is we're stating the facts that don't that aren't actually defined by the program, so these underlined axioms here. To sum to one again, these things aren't necessarily probabilities, so there's no change to the program. Things run efficiently, so there's a bunch of problems that arise from the fact that these NLP systems are so big. It's just you have to tear up too much code to put it in. Now you've all studied Gaussian elimination, so you know that there are lots of ways to rearrange a system of equations to make it easier to solve. In fact, a lot of linear algebra is about, you know, decomposing and rewriting systems of equations to make them faster or. It's about 6 lines and there's the magic templates transformation. Or give you a few more details of a language. To give you a few details of the language just so you'll understand the example, so I'll skip some of this. So one thing that I do want you to understand is that the database is only defining values for ground terms, and what these variables do is it lets us define values for infinitely many ground terms. So Edina base can appear as a subterm of another term, or as the value of another term. So the situation outside NLP is maybe a little bit better at president. These are just a few random things I pulled down in computational biology, music analysis, graph layout. But these systems are still pretty big and they will get bigger. So who wants to share more about shortest paths? OK, so here is neural networks, so for any of these nodes, the input to a node we look at the output of its child. So summing over all children and we multiply that by the weight of the of the connection from that node to the child. And you'll notice that this no longer has distribution semantics. So in the case of context free grammars for parsing, it was the case that the value of a of an item was the sum of the values of all of its proofs, but that's not the case here because we're passing through a sigmoid squashing function at every level. It's the AI systems are currently pretty hard to write and modify, and in thinking about how to simplify our job in NLP systems, I think I inadvertently hit on a layer of abstraction. That I'd like to build, or that I see other people building and I'm envious of. Then again, they don't do everything you want, so one tool that I use quite a lot and I love is a system for working with finite state machines done by the best people in the field. In principle, we could write out the equations, but it would be a lot of work to get them into the system. For different modeling languages, presumably there's some level of abstraction in computer science is always built as a stack of abstractions. What shared by? That weighted deduction could be expressed by weighted logic programs, and it's implemented by something like truth, maintenance on equations.