Yes Infr people for organizing this summer school. On the one hand, and mainly from the past, from the industrialization days we have operators which had various structure, various structure work with a lot of procedures, control techniques, compliance policies. But nowadays most of the people in their daily work. It's taking forever for notebook, then basically workflow is finished set of sequential parallel activities two year by event. We know what I'm business process is, but where our knowledge process while we gave our first definition and we said that knowledge processor collection of loosely defined and ramified activities necessary for protection of user relevant data and to achieve user user relevant goals. This table certain main difference between the between a business process and knowledge process. Sometimes business processes are we. On the other hand, knowledge process can trigger business processes. OK, and how this knowledge process can evolve overtime. If we look at this example, we at the beginning when we are starting the process, we there are a lot of tasks available from T1 from the seven depending on the context the user has to decide which is the. And in this case in T1 Hillside, Bob decides that T one is the. OK, so in T1 he selects the Wan the first time frame he he takes 212. To run whatever whatever the task is that asks about. Bob can prepare representation and he go to and REL, then identify some information, copy that information over the PowerPoint, passed information to another person, and save the presentation. Of how he prepares them a presentation instead of, for example, identify information she, as a second step, she he will talk to another person. We can somehow extract templates and patterns of what the user with the users do and give this information back to the user as a suggestion as a recommendation of how the process should should look like. We integrate the social software and Web 2.0 applications in active, how we understand. I'm going to focus on what we understand as knowledge processes inactive. So basically the idea is OK, we can, we can do it manually, maybe because we have some kind of domain expired or or maybe from the mining process analyzing the logging we can say OK, there are a lot of people. Somehow I can play this standard to be reusing the company, and that's something interesting from the from the company point of view, because it can improve. OK, so having in mind these different features within knowledge processors we we can say that the knowledge processes are loosely defined and structure ramified, collection of activities which was the initial definition. But we can say as well that is not fully defined in terms of structure or the order of activities depending on the knowledge and depending of depending on external events, an even internal events, the order on the structure of the knowledge process knowledge process can be different. I'm basically the final. Is scheduling a meeting and preparing or preparing a bit. And there's a clear net I need. It's a need for having tools for supporting informal processes. We context aware. And we finally came up with definition of knowledge processing active so. Basically. Of the main worlds in activities, support, knowledge processes. And we will try to use several tools tools to identify recurring sentence sentences or sequences or patterns or templates within within a process to help the other knowledge. Is the framework for knowledge process? It provides methods to create and restructure processors during the runtime. It offers facilities to create and manage processes. They can edit and modify the the recording process according to what he understands. In coordination with these elements, we have a task. But at the same time, it connects the top down and bottom up. Approach the top down provided by the knowledge by the knowledge process framework and the bottom up approach provided by the mining stuff. As I said, it's the user oriented top down approach to deal with knowledge processes. It provides the the search facilities econnect. We can divide this approach into four a framework for knowledge process which is a top down approach to model in a very flexible manner knowledge process and we have several tools for that so that this has been introduced by you got this morning. The second approach is knowledge filters which offer. And their final worries about security and privacy around knowledge workers around knowledge process. The second element is the context visualizer. Which was also shown by this morning and the idea here is that you can visualize the relationship between the different elements within a context in terms of the different resources, tasks and users in the context. In the context, the icons have the icons have different side. It's more likely to be easier to perform some taxing guideway. In terms of some specific steps to create a process template to select a particular process or to modify the privacy or the security. And the and the interaction given by the user and they have developed 2 main tools as the wiki and the Office Smart Tag plugin. The first step where the user query the user type some keywords, in this case publication semantic web search. Are complex and complicated sometimes and can be executed in several ways. So the point here is, how can we compare knowledge processes and how can we increase the efficiency of performance? We have defined a set of metrics to compare knowledge processes. Do you sign and unique value to compare knowledge process and then we have implemented to tools around the idea of refactoring knocked in optimization? Because it contains subjective information like the quality of the result or the satisfaction with the process from the user perspective. Taking from the from the programming field, refactoring means that we can apply a series of transformation within the code. With no impact in the final goal of the of the of the goal, but providing in the case of knowledge process, providing a new kind of structure or new structure with better design or perform performance. If I was going to be presented by Gregor. But we have more, more modern definitions around the term Thomas of import define knowledge workers as people who think for a living and discuss who they are they do or how they number. Then the relation with companies. The typical situation of a knowledge worker, I would say that. Carry out the process which are the steps for scheduling a meeting or for writing a proposal for the next call. People who from people who may be interested in the project. Basically this this gives the opportunity the opportunity to have particular definition of knowledge worker in the project inactive, and we say that knowledge worker is a specialist or an expert in the process. It could be on at ministered unreceptive assistant dedicated to knowledge intensive work, as I say. They take decisions to create new knowledge out of existing pieces of work and basically a very important thing is that they need to interchange ideas with others sharing this knowledge with other colleagues to improve their knowledge processes. On the one hand we have business processes. It mainly depends on the experience and skill and judgment of the knowledge worker to be carry out. The point here is that expressing all this process is complicated because they are maybe less repetitive.