I'm working in the old group in the Department of Computer Science in University of Sheffield, and there is a bit of background to this talk and initially about a few weeks back with you. So to the entire mailing list of the group. As far as I remember correctly, and we've collected 1001 emails and the total number of users were 40 and the number of active users who have been sending more emails and receiving. So in order to extract features from these emails, we look at a service which is called Java automatic term recognition. The two, so we've asked participants to to provide their perceived similarity with their colleagues and from a professional and social point of view, and also looking at the points or topics of interest. So we've asked people to say that, do you think you are similar to this person, and how much similar do you think they are? These examples include informal emails, meeting requests, meeting records, things we discuss while we meet on the corridor of chats. We've generated semantic user profiles from textual content generated by users, and we've made used of Barrett knowledge within an organization. When we when we think about it, we've we've decided on working on a lot of future directions, so we are planning to work with an organization with knowledge workers on long term trials of the system. And we we are also looking at ways of exploring new visualizations to facilitate real time visualization of dynamic networks and profiles. And then we generate user profiles on the basis of that features and then we use these profiles and in in a in an organization and. When we talk about collecting features from emails, we've looked at some. They look at things like absolute frequency thresholds. Have looked at contents of these emails and look at how we can determine expertise or how we can analyze relations between content and people, or how we can extract personal information like name, Age, address, contact and so on. While generating user profiles, what people have also looked at is by monitoring user activities on the web. Our geographical features, location, age, interests, social interests or even Facebook friends, Facebook interactions, likes, pictures and so on that are shared between two people. And while using this profile, people have been looking at making use of profiles in on the basis of information retrieval. So can we customize search results and better provide better results to users on the basis of their profiles? So when we gather all of this information together, we want to answer one simple research question that does increasing the level of semantics in user profiles outperform current methods.