[0.0s - 29.0s]
If you open my book on rational decision making, you most likely encounter the following message. Good reasoning follows the laws of logic. The rules of probability, or the maximization of expected utility. This message is not what you will hear today. I will talk about how people make decisions under uncertainty, meaning that not all alternatives, not all consequences. Not all probability distributions unknown. And this is the question that Herbert Simon Post. So how do people behave? If the. Models of Neil Classical economics are not meant so in plain words. How do people behave if we are not omniscient? If we cannot optimize, that's my question. And just to give you an idea about the resistance against answering this questions in many fields. For instance, economics still works on trying to model certain worlds. Certain worlds means what Jimmy Savage wants. Once called a small world in which everything is known and so called behavioral economics. Is not really dealing with very few exceptions to start from scratch to model how humans behave, but retain the expected utility framework and add a few parameters and that's in prospect theory or hyperbolic discounting or inequity aversion theory. So we are still in a world in the social Sciences where optimization, rains and everything. Else is considered as not really relevant to or not beautiful enough. So today I will invite you into some glimpses into our research on how people make decisions when optimizations out of reach and one tool to make decisions in an uncertain world is heuristics. It's not the only one. We can also make decisions by analogy by other things. We will not talk about those today. Heuristic is in channel strategy. That ignores part of the information. Even if the information comes for free and its power is in in the fact of ignoring avoiding things like overfitting and others, I'll start out with an example. Is anyone of you here who is who plays baseball hands up? One OK cricket none soccer. None. OK, here's the problem. Aghbal is coming high, like a fly ball. An experienced player wants to catch it. He knows intuitively where to run. What's the mechanism? So how does he know where to run? So did you could ask an intuitive and experienced player. Good luck, it's intuition. Yeah, they know what to do, but they don't know how to have it in language. They don't know it. So here are two theories about how it works. The one is the standard theory, sorry.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And which is? I'll be seeing the theory is it's a complex problem. You need a complex mechanism to solve it, and this is a quote from Richard dockings this Alpha chain where he basically says a man do in order to solve this problem, calculates the trajectory of the ball. So. And he puts in the term as if which you can see in the second line, because he's aware that nobody can you compute the trajectory of a bull, but your unconscious somehow does it somehow. That's distinctive explanation, much of psychology, like it's now more Bayesian unconscious, somehow Bayesian and can do all these things that we really can't do by hand, and so that's the standard explanation. Complex problem needs complex solution. And if he can't do it deliberately, then somehow the unconscious does it. A number of experiments have shown that experienced player do something completely different, which is nothing to do with the calculate.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So for trajectory and I'll show you the simplest of these heuristics, which I call the gaze heuristic. It works if the ball is already high up in the air. And it has three building blocks. Many heuristics have building blocks. The first is. Fix your eye on the ball. Second, start running third. Adjust your running speed so that the angle of gaze remains constant. This player is doing that it keeps.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
English of.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Gaze constant.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And he ends up with the ball is do you want to see it again?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The point is the display.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Can ignore.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
All the information.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Necessary for computing the trajectory like the original English original distance and so on, is spin. Ignore everything by focusing, but just on one thing, which is the angle of case. It does all the work. That's an example of a heuristic. And even if it's not as beautiful as calculating differential equation, that's the best model we have. What actual players do?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And here is an example about the predictive power of these heuristics. Here we have two models. They are safe model. You just saw calculating the trajectory somehow. The gays heuristic interesting already. The goal appears to be different, namely from the as if model. The goal is to compute the landing point and run there. That's not the goal. From the heuristic, it's to intercept the ball. You don't need to compute the landing point. So heuristics sometimes is not just another means to the end, it also makes us more clear to us what the end is. And here are three predictions about behavior, not just about the process that fall out and are different. The Asif model predicts you run to a landing point and wait there to adjust to catch the ball. That's not what the heuristic model, which is a process model predicts. It predicts the player will intercept the ball while running because he has to adjust to make it linear. The optical angular and that's what the evidence shows. Second prediction to player runs in a straight line according to the as If model. But you can show which I do not do here, but the heuristics will imply that sometimes the player runs a slight dark. So do dogs. For instance, if you have a dog at home, throw the Frisbee, watch it keeps the optical English constant and the third one is the player somehow should know. Where the ball is coming down. And often in the literature in cognitive science, not knowing something is called a bias and error. That's not the case. You need to 1st know what they what heuristic process is, and here it's clear you don't need to know where it's coming down. You just need to hold him no.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
To get there so you may Remember Remember the miracle of the Hudson River and the two pilots had to make an important decision whether they make it towards the next airport LaGuardia or not, or try do something risky like going into water. How do they? How did they do this disposition? So there was no calculation involved?

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The copilot Jeffrey scarves makes it clear what they did is used to gauge juristic. Here you fix it, your eye on the Tower of LaGuardia, and if the tower is going up. You will not make it there in the water, so that's a simp.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
But it's only example about a heuristic. Consider logic, probability and heuristics as three important tools. The human mind has, but most of the research into cognitive Sciences goes after logic and probability theory considers often heuristics, not so much in AI, but in in economics. In psychology, heuristics are considered something second best. This is where the errors are. Whereas using logic is always here, it's like godly decision making. So here are the three questions that I will address. One is the descriptive study of the adaptive tool box, so the vision is that each Organism human or as an animal, has an adaptive toolbox to several of this Euro 6, not just in case heuristic better consisting from building blocks that can be recombined to adapt to new situations. And are anchored in evolved cognitive capabilities. For instance, the gays heuristic needs an Organism that can fix it. It's I and keep its eye on on a moving target against noisy background. That's very hard. For some artificial organisms, but we have an evolved machinery. So the heuristic is simple, becausw the cognitive capacities are deer in place. So the first question is a descriptive one. But this study of heuristics is also normative, and that's the big difference to most of the users of heuristics in the social Sciences, where they always second best in the normal equation never emerges be cause it's over some optimization model. But in the real world, optimization models or not. Tractable, often there, or you can't estimate the parameters without too much error, or you just did, just worse than others him and so we asked a normative question which is not an optimization question. We ask the question in what world will a given heuristic do better than another strategy? That's the question its comparative. We can answer question of the kind which does better, not. Which is the best one. And the third study that we do, we call this intuitive design, that means how to design decisions, the systems that fit the natural intuitions of people. For instance, doctors, doctors are very hard put about weighing and adding evidence. That's the classical model. That's not what they do. They think they think in order do something first, do something 2nd, and probabilities rarely, if ever, play any role in their thinking. If you don't believe that, ask your doctor. So I will give you some glimpses from.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Each of these readings and 1st this study of the adaptive toolbar. That's the descriptive question, and some of the questions we address is the following. What core capacities do heuristics exploit? And they will differ from species to species. Second, what are the building blocks of heuristics? Since there are many heuristics, the hope is to arrive on a smaller number of building blocks that compose the larger number of heuristics. And how do people learn? To use heuristics in adaptive way.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Let me start here with giving you 6 examples of core capacities we study on which heuristics which you received. Exploit one is recognition memory, another one is the ability to make equality judgments, which also has often moral components divide equally 2nd order and interesting order is not part of expected utility theory. Reciprocity immitation trust. I will today only deal with the first 3 ones.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And let me start out and give you an example about one of the most simple touristics we have studies. It's the recognition heuristic. Assume you are in a TV program who will become a millionaire and here is 2 one million.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Ola question, which American City has more inhabitants, Detroit or Milwaukee? Who a few things? It's Detroit. Who if you thinks it's Milwaukee? It's about equal. So we did a study Ingles in and I this was when I was still at the University of Chicago the our undergraduates at the University Chicago think there is smallest in the country. 60% correct, correct? Is Detroit. Then we asked Germans, Germans who knew very little about Detroit and many of them had not even heard of Milwaukee. What percentage of Germans do you think got the right answer? Yeah, you're socially smart. You know, if there wouldn't be anything surprising, I wouldn't show it, right? Yeah, right 90% correct. Now how can that be? Here's the answer. The Germans could use a simple heuristic called the recognition heuristic. You've never heard of Milwaukee. You've heard of Detroit? That's it. You go with Detroit Americans. They had heard of both. They need to use recall, not recognition, recall and what? All that? What they got out at the end where 10 percentage points above the 50% chance so they knew too much and this is an example about a very simple heuristic that can lead to what we call less, is more effective and you can.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Analyze that he is the recognition heuristic if one of two objects recognize the other one is not in further recognize object is the higher value and the question of equal logic. Rationale is now in what world does it work and where does it not work? And the answer is if the recognition valid is larger than chains, recognition related is very simply calculated. You take all the cases where recognition leads you to the right answers divided by all the cases and.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Hello. Here's an illustration. Assume you watched the game mentions the United Place, Shrewsbury Town, who won? You know it? If you're British, it takes you longer to know.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Because they know something about Shrewsbury Town. A little bit calculation can now analytically show when a less is more effect will emerge and what you see here is basically the first term is order cases where recognition heuristic can be used. So where you recognize one and the other one not, and it's just a number of cases that lower case N is the number of recognized cases. Total cases, like all the teams in the FA Soccer. Cup, and that's the cases where you recognize none. So it's changed 1/2 and it's recognized when directing us both. And you can't use the heuristic.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
If you do these equations graphically, here's an illustration. If you recognition heuristics .8, so above chains and have certain knowledge is and the less is more effect is defined as the following. So the function between the correct inferences and the knowledge here is number of officers recognized is not monotonic. And so the two points here. One here that's a person who recognizes all the items. Like all these cities or all the soccer teams and on average gets .6 right will not do as well as the same person in the state of recognizing only about half the other.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Point show you one illustration of the power of this simple heuristics. So this is a study about predicting the outcomes of the 127 games at Wimbledon. So Gentlemen's single games, so 128 contestants who makes 127 games. And these are three of the key strategies you take the ATP entry rankings Vault rankings list and in this year you got 66 percent, 50% will be chance. There's another world ranking list that are 68%, and the Wimbledon experts who do this seeding and know all these they got 69% correct. OK, that's the benchmarks for the moment. In order to apply the recognition heuristic you need semi ignorant people and in this study there were two, namely laypeople in Berlin where I live and amateur amateur players are more interesting because they recognized half of the. Players and had never heard of the ozone delay. People only recognize 10 or 15%, so that's as you saw the curves for that's the ideal thing to do. What do you think? How good were the predictions? The actual predictions of these outcomes, which were done the week before the games were compared to this bench?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Books. So you see the board about as good or better then the Wimbledon experts and this is the power of ignorance in the minds of semi knowledgeable people that.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Electric words so this was an illustration of the first question, so the descript this descriptive study of the adaptive toolbox. So what's in it? How do we get along in our lives? And you find the same mechanisms. I've shown those conditions you Ristic in both. The recognition is rustic in animals. So when animals make a decision between what to eat, what to not eat, and rats, for instance, recognize the smell of some tasting doesn't don't recognize this one. Guess what they do not always, but in 90% of the case they go with the recognized one, even if the smell the food on the press over at wisp of fellow red who has been experimentally made sick, it still dominates. And what I'm getting now is into the study of ecological rationality. Now the normative questions so normal depression is. How can we make statements about when it's rational to use what recognition Ristic that's the question. So how to pick from the toolbox? So in this theoretical few, in your mind, so it's not a Bayesian big Calculator or an expected utility Calculator, but isn't adaptive toolbox. Of heuristics you've learned that have been evolved that often. You don't know like the gays juristic, the players don't know what they're doing, but you just use them. And you can extend this work and some of us have done this to the adaptive tullberg toolbox of CEOs. So how do they make decisions of doctors? How does the doctor know what's wrong with you? Often the doctor doesn't know, but you can figure it out. So how can we approach? Do normative study of ecological rationality input before going into this, I want to mention that the in psychology the study of heuristics has never before, as far as I know, be linked to normative because it was always considered as something that leads to error and it still is so. The term heuristics and biases is one thing, and biases means not something that does you good, but something that. That's an error. So when are?

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Juristic successful and here are some of the sub questions that I ask what environmental structures, social and physicals can heuristics exploit? We have seen a few answers so if in the world outside the recognition is linked to performance like in the tennis players, that helps you. If it's not linked, it doesn't help you touristic. And how do simplicity, robustness and bias let lead to better decision will get to this. Some of the power of heuristics in an uncertain world is that they are simple and thereby are a little bit unflexible, and it prevents you from learning too much. And finally, do. Analysis of Smallworlds tell us what's rational in an uncertain world. That's a question that keeps me sleepless. So when we do like many of my dear friends who spend their lives on experimental games, so Ultimating gamer so there all games done there, all a certain crowd, you know everything. The only thing you don't know is how the other one will react. But you can do a tree. And that's like chess, you know it. The question is, do we learn anything? From behavior in such a simple world about the world outside, and it's totally unclear. And I do not think we really can have an answer. It yes. Or directly know and it's a problem why this research doesn't go and try to answer the question. How do we get from a small world to a large world? So.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Let me use the same core capacities in heuristics before and I give you a second example about a core capacity like the ability to just make equality church.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Divide equal. So how assume you have too much money you want to invest it? How do you do it? You want don't want to put everything in one basket but to diversify, but how? How do wages and hear remarkable? It's from the University of Chicago, got his Nobel Prize for finding the answer. The answer is the so called mean variance model. I'm not going into the model, but basically the mean is the gain you want to optimize and the variance is the risk that you want to minimize. And depending on the one, you will find the optimal answer for the other one. That's the idea. Oh and when Harry Markowitz made his own investments for the time after his retirement, he used his Nobel Prize winning optimizing model. So we think, no, he did not. He used a simple heuristic that is known as 1 / N.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
It's means allocate your money equally over in funds. If N = 2 is 5050 and so on. There are behavioral economists who make fun out of this big cause. It's not optimal, so it can be good. That's the conclusion. You can read articles by Dick, Sailor Banarsi, and others who find everything wrong on what's not optimal. But again, this research, which looks psychologically, doesn't there. To take on the normative question still, in behavioral finance, the normosol was given by the old fashion models and psychologist. Now to explain why we deviate. So put it differently. If we all would be rational in this sense, psychology would be no longer necessary, and that's why I don't think this is really psychology, but I'm the 1% outlier. So the interesting question is now the following. How good is 1 / N in what world? That's the question and there are a number of studies I just give you 1. Which how would you test this? You take a number of investment problems, such as a 10 American industry funds, and now you divide you money. Or wait, you're using mean variance or 1 / N one over in simple using mean variance you need data because you need to estimate the parameters and in this study there were ten years of data available to estimate the parameters and then they were used to predict one month. So that's optimal for the optimization model. Under what was the result according to a number of financial parameters like Sharpe ratio, none of these optimization models could do better than 1 / N one over ended better than the mean variance model and doesn't does a Bayesian non Bayesian models. Where could not beat 1 / N so? That's 21 result and the 2nd result. The second actually question is the one that really interests me. I'm not interested to find a situation where heuristic does better than a complex model that's just necessary in order to shake some peoples minds. The question is in what world? Will 1 / N do better than mirror then mean variance and when it will be the opposite?

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Now the answers to this questions are not entirely clear, but we have three variables identified. We do not know how to hang together. So first 1 / N is ecological irrational, meaning doing better according to some criterion like Sharpe ratio, then mean variance if the predictive uncertainty is large. That's the case in stocks and fonts. If N is large, that's easy to see because if you have an optimization model, the larger end IMO parameters you need, the more error you will introduce and 3rd if their learning sample is small. Small here name means 10 years. Now when King asked the question. How large would the learning sample have to be so that the mean variance model actually does better than one away in and assume there N = 50? Then by means of computer simulation, you came. Try to answer this. What do you think? How many years of stock data would you need so that the mean variance model actually does better than this simple 1 / N any intuitions here in the room? 10,000 oh, I've never had this higher. Mostly people say, yeah, 11 years or 1250. Oh, the best estimate is 500 years. So that means in the year 2500 the children of your children and their children. Here they might rationally switch to the mean variance model and giving up their intuitions. If the same stocks are still there, and if the stock market still exists in the first place. Do banks understand this?

[870.0s - 899.0s]
I show you something anyone here can read German. I'll translate. This is a German Internet tank that sent me and their customers to following letters with Nobel Prize winning strategy to success in investment and then the text read of the letter. Do you know Harry Markowitz? Know you should know him and then the story is told that he won the Nobel Prize for solving this big important problem. Now the bank uses the same procedure and there's a warning about using your intuitions. What this bank has not understood is. They sent the letter 500 years too early.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
So. I'm still in the question of ecological rationality, so this study about how to understand when heuristic works and why, and simplicity fosters robustness. I used the term robustness here in a channel term that this strategy will work in a prediction as opposed to fitting that can be out of sample prediction that can be out of population prediction where statistics it is it's end. Or the Camping World were really surprises. Me may be up there. And how to simplify? That's the question. And he.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Here or. We'll use a few others from this core capacities and heuristics, and two one idea to simplify is to assume you want to make an inference which of two objects is the better one? The number of queues one of a way to simplify is to do not weigh the queues and weigh them equally. That's what telling is, just count. And another way to simplify is different. It's introduced order telling his no order. Multiple regression is no order. That's a heuristic called take. The best you just tried to order the queues in a very simple ways. Simple means that you ignore dependencies between queues. Another way to safeguarding against overfitting. And then just go with the first one that makes.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
It allows you make it decision here or the two heuristic. So take the best has building blocks, like all heuristic a search rule. It orders cues by validity. Again, validity is just a simple count of how often this cube work to predict the criterion in the past. That's the counter independently of all others. To use it in dependently is typically considered an error in psychology. Dennis stopping rule, which basically means in the case of binary queues here plus minus the first Q that allows to make your decision stop, go with it. That's the decisional. So it's a simple Lakers lexicographic role. Bias is that it ignores cues, ignores cues in two ways. It just may go with the first one or and also that it ignores the dependencies between cues. Telling goes another way to simplify. It takes all the queues and there is no order, so their search rules just looked him up in brain in order and it stops after a certain number of cues is again so it use equal way and just goes by contact. So there are two ways to simplify. If you think in terms of multiple regression, then the one would be throw away all your better weights or just two plus or minus one. It's telling and the other ways just go with one variable. But it will not be the one necessarily not be the same one as the better weights, because the ordering is done simply.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Here is a summary graph of 20 studies we've done on economic, educational psychological predictions. For instance, at this time when we start this researcher lifting Chicago, a key problem is Chicago High School is dropout rates. How you want to send your child into either high school A or B and you worry about dropouts. But these schools don't publish their rates, so you have to make an inference. From cues like the composition of Hispanic and others. The salary of the teachers and so on here writing scores. And how do you do this here? For methods one is take the best, take the best orders to cues in a simple way and just goes with the first one, ignores all the others. Tallying looks as all the queues but ignores any weights. Multiple regression is the linear optimization model here, and minimalist is a heuristic that, as you will see, is too simple for this task. It just picks a queue randomly and goes with it. And the result here. The important thing is the difference between fitting and prediction. Now you are from artificial intelligence. I don't have to tell this, but when I give talks to economist or sociologist or to medical people then I have to explain the difference between fitting and prediction. Because if you look in these studies published in these fields, most is fitting. So fitting means you know the data already and then you figure weights on it. Prediction here is defined as you fit your data. You feed your parameters on half of those data and predict the other ones and you do this thousand times or 10,000 times to avoid. So and the key result here is of course in fitting. More is always better. But in prediction then you have to crossover. And both ways to simplify, namely tape. Take the best, just base your judgment on one. Thus better and as well as just throw away your better weights and the minimalist here under fits. That's also important to see that less is not always better, but it's usually a curve in between. Kim relying on just one reason is take the best us also do better than nonlinear, most sophisticated. So I agree.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
And here is 1 example which is very typical. Out of this 20 studies. It's the Chicago High school examples. You see the queues. Some of the cues, attendance rates, and so on. Writing scores, social science, this core, and what you see here is the sample size on the. Axis and the predictive accuracy on Divi axis, meaning that, for instance you had a sample size of 20 schools here. And on which the models are fitted, their parameters you predict it otherwise. At this time there were only 57 schools, so there is no way to get really great ratios that you would want. The interesting result is the following that across the entire sample sizes. Relying on one reason in the sense of take the best. Does better predicts better then cart? Which is classification and regression trees, an example model and a neural network back propagation model. I want to point out two things on this study. First, we use this study in order to try to identify what intake the best makes it so robust, so predicting action. And This is why created where we created a take. The best version that is the reddish thing here where we ordered the cues. Conditionally on one another and you can prove that in a world of fitting where everything is known, a conditional ordering that would reflect if your base and the conditional probabilities of course always does better. Then a simplified. But this is not a world where you know everything. It's a world of out of sample prediction. Nothing more complicated and still here the effect is that by ordering in a more sophisticated way, the predictive accuracy goes down. It's actually at the level of all the other models. And what's the common denominators of the back propagation model of card is that they try to look at all the information and all the conditional information and work something out. Even if it simply is in the cart. So so here is some of the insights that surprised me. I had believed in the past that the big benefit of take the best is that it just takes one variable, ignores the other one, but that at least here doesn't come out. The big benefit seems to be that it uses a very simple ordering procedure, so it's in the search field. It's not so much in this stopping rule. Another thing, just to point out, you might say, but we can always use a multiple regression or something. Just stop with the first few ones. The policy implications of this research are different. Becausw multiple regression will come up with another list of top cues. Then take the best becausw of the conditional versus unconditional ordering. And if you do multiple regression then you think what you should do in in school. Is to pay attention to the percentage of Hispanic and black students. Students with limited English. That's not what an analysis by a simple heuristic such as to you for take the best and most important thing or what what's happening inside the classroom attendance rate, writing scores, and these things. So that's an illustration.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
That first we can analyze. How well what's going on here? How well a heuristic is relative to complex models in out of sample predictions, and what I'm going now. A2 is to use the bias variance dilemma to show you how one can actually analyze why less is more. Before I do this, I want to introduce another. Trade off, that's very popular. It's the accuracy effort tradeoff. The usual justification by people use heuristics is the so-called accuracy effort tradeoff. Let's buy those people who are more friendly to heuristic the others say because you are stupid, you use you Ristic. So the accuracy effort tradeoff says the following. A heuristic is simple. It saves you effort, you can do it fast, you can react immediately. But you pay some price in accuracy. And if this is taking as a channel of cognition, it's wrong. As you've seen now in several cases. So there's of course the heuristic is simpler, and it saves you effort in, and you can define this in some ways, but it may be that you do better or worse, so this trade off is not the point. There's a different trade off that is actually, I think, a better foundation of why we use heuristics, and that's from the error decomposition into bias variance and noise. Noise being the irreducible measurement error. Bias. Bing, the difference between the true function and your models function and variance being the flexibility. So that means if you base your estimates on different samples. And then you plot the variability of all the solutions over the mean solution. That's variance and about get to this in a second. So the tradeoff here is being stubborn enough. Having a buyers not being able to learn everything. So take the best will not learn the conditional dependencies between queues. It refuses, so that's a bias, and having variants being sensitive to this particular sample, you got being able to learn. That's much more the issue.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Issue here and I'll show you how this works out in an example about weather protection. What do you see? Here are 365 points, 2000 London. Each point is the average temperature and there are two polynomials and that could be used in order to find out what's the underlying structure of temperature, what's going on in London? And the degree 12 polynomial can fit the pattern better then the degree three polynomial that's clear. In channel you get. So one might think that the degree 12 polynomial is the better one.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
The relationship between error. So here on the Y axis is low is better, lower error and the degree of polynomial. Is this that it just the error gets less and less and if you have a polynomial of three and at 64 degrees and you're perfect, so you see that's fitting Cano PD answer. The question now is I want to post to you if we take now the fitted model in 2000 and predict next years. So that's something in between out of sampling. Out of population prediction, that's in the reality. The concept don't work exactly, so how will these? The curve now look like the curve of predictive accuracy for each of these fitted models. We will now have. A predictive accuracy. First question, will the particular accuracy be above or below the fitting curve? The red curve who thinks it will be above? Who thinks it will be below? Below one you most of your socially smart. Yeah, they know it's above because I left more space there. And prediction is harder than fitting, so the error is higher, so it has to be above. But the big question is what shape does it have? Why's this a big question? It helps us to understand the fact that in prediction in an uncertain world, less can be more. Is the curve also monotonically decreasing? Is it just a horizontal line? Is it going up? What does it do? It has. Yes, yeah. You are also right, but just the inverse.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
So that's what you see here. What you see here that the polynomial of 1st degree a line of course is not a good model. And a polynomial of 3rd force degrees gives you the best thing, and 12 is worse than 1 degree. Why is this the case? On the bio.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Variance Dilemma came analyzed this precisely in order to define bias. We need to know the actual true function. Let's assume it's a 3 degree polynomial. The red line we add some Aaron is we get a sample and now we predict with this sample.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
The entire years and what you see here is the decomposition of the error in Tobias invariants for a polynomial of degree one align. The error is huge and it's almost all of this is bias, so that's the green. Point bias it just not a good model. It only starts to be a good model or three degree polynomial because it has to come back to weather. Yeah, and what do you see here from a polynomial of 3rd degree? Body bias is 0 because you do. It is often time and then you get a zero bias but. You get more and more variants the higher the flexibility. That is the polynomial is, and as you've seen it before, it then gets straight up, so that's a way to understand what the mind has to do to find a tradeoff between buyers not being able to learn and variants learn everything. So an extreme variance mind would be one who basically reproduces the sample. It gets.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
So let me get to my last point, intuitive design. So how do you use all of these to design decision systems? And I give you one example and that's about the following situations. We work with doctors. And one of the situation that happens in every emergency room is the following. A man is brought in with severe chest pains and the doctors in the emergency room need to make a decision. Send him to the coronary care unit. Or into a regular bed with telemetry. That's the decision about life and death, because if the person has or gets an heart attack, he should be in the coronary care unit, otherwise not because it's one of the most dangerous places to be a friend of mine died in such a situation from the virus. He had not brought in, but got there. So that's the situation. How do you do this? Michigan Hospital the doctors did defensive decision making. That's the key practice in medicine that meant they sent 90% of all patients into the ICU. That protects them, not the patient, against being sued, particularly in the US, and which the result was the quality went down costs up, and it was a danger for the patient. In this situation, the hospital asked researchers at the University of Michigan to do something about that and their first did the usual complex problems. Complex model.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
The complex model was a logistic regression which consisted of a chart that the doctors got and a pocket Calculator where they put in the numbers here.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Here's the chart. You don't have to understand that you only have to understand that the doctors also don't understand it. And you put these numbers in about 50 probabilities into pocket Calculator. The pocket Calculator has a logistic regression in it, and then you push enter and if the number is above a threshold, then coronary care unit, otherwise not, that's the thing. Now what happens typically is that's not intuitive to a doctor, and as soon as the medical researchers left the pocket calculators, everything went into the wastepaper basket and back to defensive decision-making. At this point, the medical researchers learned about our research on heuristics in Berlin, and they designed a heuristic for heart attack protection. How do you do this? You simplify.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
And the heuristic is shown on the left side here. It only asks 3 questions. Is there an St segment change that's a segmented electrocardiogram? If yes immediately coronary care unit no. First questions being asked if no, a second question is ask with primary complaints are chest contains if no regular bed and otherwise a third question is asked, which is composite. If one is one of these factors there and that decides everything. Note all 50 probabilities are gone and the decision can be based. On one on the 1st, on the second or third one. This is a game lexicographic decision making. We call this a fast and fruit tree. I'm. I will get to the right one immediately. So how good is this tree compared to the logistic regression, which is all the information and more and compare to doctors decision making. So if you would have your dearest friend bring in the hospital and the hospital would give you a choice, do you want us to make the decision by doctor or by the logistic regression or buy a faster through the tree that we got from Mr Gigerenzer? What would you do honestly? Logistic regression. I can send you the article. So of course it's done. It was done in Boston. You know it's now used in Michigan, have out of population prediction. You know basically nothing.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
That's the idea, so I'll show you the result of this study. Here is the sensitivity. So the proportion of patients correctly assign that means correctly assignment proposal patients are actually got a heart attack and the proportions incorrectly assigned to the ICU. They got no heart attack. What do you want to have is a system that's in the left upper corner, but it's too difficult problem, but you don't want to have a system that's at a diagonal. This is chains or below. I show you know 3 result how well the doctors defensive decision-making did. Second, the logistic regression. Third, the fast and frugal tree. Where do you think are the doctors? These are rarely studied. So it's here. Slightly below chains, so they send about 90% of those who should be in the ICU into the ICU. Anna sent about 90%. We should not be there. That's the defensive decision. Making how good is the logistic regression scheme doing now you will not see one dot B cause you can adjust the threshold to everything you see in our OC curve and it's on the right side and it does quite well. As a little bit problems about sensitivity up there, but it's clearly better and now you see the result for the fast improving pre that's done. All this research by the missing researchers. Usually one dot again and it has the highest sensitivity. It's outside of the orosi curve here and a reasonable false positive rate. This tree is still used today in the hospital is now 12 years later and they have modified that they have understood the principle how you set it up.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
And the last thing I will show you is. How do you design such a tree and one way to understand this tree is to use an optimization model. Here, signal detection theory and map it into it and then understand, for instance, the question where is the decision criteria. So I've showed you another tree which is has also three variables. It's a tree that is now discriptive, and that's for British male, British magistrates who do bail decisions. And this is the three questions they ask, by the way, none of these questions is anything directly to do with the defendant. It's all passing the Buck, whether they have to shoot the defendant, be punished, or put into prison, or. Orbell, that's the question and. The reason I show you this, in contrast, this is a decision tree that's passing the back where you defend yourself. A magistrate can be shown to make an error if he sends someone on bail who commits then another crime, but it can not shown to have done a wrong decision if they imprison someone. That's it, so you have a kind of you want to minimize one air.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Now we map the two systems. What do you see here and top is signal detection theory, so it's basically two hypothesis as two distributions, noise and signal. And then there are two errors and you can shift the criterium the question is. What is the structural similarity between signal detection theory in the fast and frugal tree was now heuristic model and the answer is here, or 4 threes. The all possible trees for three variables in an order. They differ by the exit structure with it's a signal or noise and you can show that. These trees map into exit structures that minimize misses on the far left, or minimize false alarms on the far right to 2. Three as you have seen, or the two on the left. So the the most left tree is the magistrates tree, so they Max. They risk lots of false alarms, but they don't want to have a mess, and the doctors have a slightly less conservative tree. That's the second one, and that's a way to analyze the structure in the understanding of how different of these models map into another. That's part of our work on theory integration, I think that's one of the most important areas how to understand heuristics from the point of view of an optimization model, and vice versa.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
So let me end with three misconceptions about this study of heuristics. The first one is heuristics produce second best results. Optimization models are always better that you can find implicit or explicit in most of the textbooks of economics and cognitive Sciences and beyond. It is wrong. It only holds in a small world where everything is known, then is a strong second. People rely on heuristics because of the accuracy effort tradeoff. So because you risk are simple, you pay some price. We've also seen this is wrong. It's still the traditional message of the heuristics. Biases program in psychology. Third, more information time and computation is always better from.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
And let me summarize. I tried to give you some glimpses in our work on rationality in uncertain world, uncertain meaning, going beyond risk beyond where probable is unknown, and the key argument was humans and other animals use heuristics with good evidence for that. That mean they ignore part of the available information. It's not just about. Information storage costs. That leads to buy us by us. On the one hand protects against variance against the variance being too sensitive on this specific center you got. On that together helps us to model when less is more and when heuristics actually make better inferences than complex models and the study of this normative question is the study of the ecological rationality, and I hope this introduction has made a few of you interested in contributing on shaping out the question. So how do people make this decisions when optimization is out of reach? Thank you for attention. Affluence have very little time to make decisions and some of them have characteristics I think, and some of them don't. Where where food learns Paris tricks and how. What do you think? So the again degression is athletes are very little time. Yeah yeah, OK, yeah. And is very short time period. I will look at the football Oregon football quarterbacks, throw the ball very tiny time frame and some of them are very much better than others, and how each people difference you. Listen what makes them? How? How did you think coming to paper so that someone is better than others? Yeah, the. Things like that. So there is certainly a mixture between both. So what we know is that there is a heuristic like the case you Ristic, and very similar ones is probably the preconditioned are genetically there. We can do it is, and many animals can do this. Computer of Robot has problems with that and the. But it also needs some training to get this. And second, what we know is that if the heuristic is applied intuitively that usually better. So for instance, if you ask a, we've done studies on handball, players experience handful players who got a video about the top game and they were told you will see this for 10 seconds, then it will freeze. Tell us then what the player should do and I would do say I'll pass to the left here or try a loop. In the control condition. They were then given another, closely inspect the video, still frozen, and one player, for instance, so I didn't see the guy on the right side. That would be a good option to pass on there. And at the end we asked what would you do now after much more time, much more deliberation. So what do you think? First about almost 50% of them change their minds from their immediate intuitive. Option they picked to the after reflection and what do you think which one was on average better the immediate one, but that only holds for experienced players. It is not the case if you have between us. So these these are some of the things where if you have this form of intelligence in the unconscious, so heuristic that works unconscious and you better don't think about it. Under the same holds for golf players, another very. The question is if you have some idea of how humans learn heuristics. You have a drink for general decision revealed that there is more like compiler with Christy or other learning Christies yeah this is a big question. I have not said very much about this today first. Basically three ways. One is, you don't have to learn it, it's you're genetically endowed. Probably you could, for instance, called the. Still, the smile of a baby's a good heuristic to stay alive. They don't learn. Have to learn that. Some of the heuristics need to be learned in practice, and there's also an interaction for instigates heuristic. If you have a 3 month old baby at home, the baby will start at this time to fix it. It's eye on a moving target like a mobility. And practice to become a baseball player. So practice too used to have the preconditions of the gays are resting. So there are some interactions between learning and being endowed. And then there is the possibility of social learning so you watch others, and it's not in language and you just do whatever the others do. And that's also very often. Finally, there is certainly reinforcement learning, so one of my colleagues has formulated a reinforcement learning models about the. Questions or how do people learn to use a heuristic and its basic ideas? Traditional reinforcement? You need feedback, but the unit is not behavior, it's a heuristic. So these are some of the ways to to answer your question.
