I'll be talking about new theory for compressed sensing, and before I do that, I would like to motivate this with some applications. I have a list of problems where compressed sensing is already heavily used, or some of them can be used. And the first one is probably the flagship of compressing, so so far, namely MRI and then we have X Ray computer tomography. Then you have electron microscopy, which is very different from the other setups, but mathematically reasonably close. The location of the coefficients is arbitrary. In particular, inverse problems are like the MRI problem suffers from this. If I take a matrix which is the discrete for transform combined with a discrete wavelet transform that has coherence one for all dimensions for all the machine wavelets and then you may think, oh, there's something wrong with the job, she wavelets I should cook up a new way with it or something like that that will actually be incoherent with the complex exponentials, but that was bound to fail and it's a very. Alright, so a quick little recall of what compressed sensing is now. So compressed sensing is traditionally a finite dimensional set up. You could absolutely have a look at the Siemens report. You have S, which is the number of nonzero components or the important components in the vector, and then you have the incoherence parameter here, which is essentially just the matrix. So this is all good. And that's quite serious. And we are now in the process of signing a contract with Siemens, so we'll see where that takes us. However, the use of compressing compressed sensing might be slightly different from the initial thought. It is more likely that it will be used as a resolution enhancer that in time saver. We're all working now, sort of on volume two of compressed sensing, where is all about structure. The concept of uniform random subsampling. Why on Earth does this happen? And to be able to see if that's the case, we're introducing what we call the flip test and the flip test is very simple. The whole point is that I want to check if the success of the sampling is independent of the location, and then I'm going to run L1 again, and if it indeed is the case that the success is independent of the location, I should be able to solve that and then flip back again and get roughly the same thing.