We trust science of value to a set of vertices. That's what we want for applications. If we set G&H to be the logarithm function and Alpha to be one, then we get the dense subgraph problem. If you take G to be the identity function and age to be concave, this is polynomial, then our problem is polynomial time solvable. But The thing is because of the concavity, it's not well suited for approximation since it will turn. So let's see if you there is this well respected conjecture that if you have a planted clique of size 1 to the 1/2 minus Delta for any Delta positive in an Erdos reyni G and 1/2 graph, it's a hard problem, so this is reduced to our problem. We gave it's not in the paper, but we have approximation algorithm for a shifted objective whether not suitable becausw the optimal value of the objective can be negative in general, so other types of guarantees are more suitable. So we try to give approximation algorithms with additive guarantees, and we give an adaptation of the Charikar approximation algorithm, which goes like this. The running time of this algorithm is linear, but the problem is that since graphs tend to be really big, we'd like to have algorithms that run in time, which is a function of the output and not of the whole graph, so. So you start by initializing your settings with a random vertex and then until you reach a maximum number of iterations you keep expanding the set South with Vertex V. That gives you an improvement for your objective. In practice, however, it's not what we want for many applications, and here's why. You initialize a set S instead with a random vertex with the set Q and you never remove any vertex from the set Q and degree dissimilarly never pulled software vertex from your set cube. So suppose we have a set of set queue of computer scientists and we want to organize a workshop. So we have a microarray data set and we have a set. Of jeans Q and want to find a set of genes South that include Q and they are all highly correlated among each other. So there exists a standard methodology in the literature of how you do this. You create a correlation matrix among the expressions of each pair of jeans and you add an edge between two genes if their correlation exceeds some threshold. Other algorithms with additive approximation guarantees are desirable. For instance, Gibson, Kumar and Tompkins found that dense subgraphs in the web graph correspond to thematic communities and also to that can be used to detect spam. There used in graph visualization applications in real time story identification motive, detection in DNA, predicting epilepsy. The cake or is we say that a set S is a cake, or if every vertex has degree at least K induced from that set S? The average degree, which is 2 times the number of edges divided by the cardinality of the set. We introduce a general framework, which subsumes several popular density functions. We introduce a specific objective which we call optimal quasi cliques. And finally we give two applications successfully information from my computer scientists and finding highly correlated genes from a microarray data set. Work the maximum clique problem as everyone knows, here is an NP complete problem, and actually it's hopeless to approximate. It has that showed that unless P equals NP, there cannot exist a polynomial time algorithm that gives a better approximation factor than order enter the 1 minus epsilon for any epsilon positive. For instance, you can try to maximize this density function, But this is a very bad idea and the reason is just a single edge achieves the maximum possible density, which is 1. This is known as a kaydence subgraph problem, and there exists two more versions that dances at least K and the densest at most K. So there is this distinction.