[0.0s - 29.0s]
Let me begin by saying that this is joint work with.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Francesco, Bonchi high risk journeys Francesco Gulan Maria Charlie.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So I would like to start by justifying the title of the paper which is denser than the densest so the densest subgraph problem which I'm going to define in few slides from now is a very popular problem. In practice, however, it's not what we want for many applications, and here's why. So in this table, let Delta be the edge density. How many edges you have in the set S divided by the cardinality of the set, choose two. Let D be the diameter it used by the output vertices and tauby the triangle density. So these are notions of how dense subset of vertices and you can see in this table two columns. The first column corresponds to the densest subgraph optimal solution, and the optimal quizzically column corresponds to our optimal solution to our solution. And you can see 4 toy graphs. These are small graphs of several tenths of vertices. And what you can see is that the densest subgraph problem which is solved using maximum flows, tends to return a big fraction of the vertices of the graph as output. For instance, in a pronounced example, foot in the football graph, the densest subgraph returns the whole graph as a dense subgraphs, which is not so informative. Veg density is .09, the diameter is 4, and the triangle density is .03 hour. The method returns just 10% of the graph as output with edge density .7, three diameter, two well if it's not a click, the diameter has to be at least two, so it's optimal conditions on the set not being a click and triangle density .3 four. Another example that you can see here is adjust network, for instance where the densest subgraph returns half of the graph with edge density .34. Diameter three and trying density .08 our method finds a click which spans 15% of the vertices. That's why we call it denser than the densest.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And. When we say then subgraph, intuitively we mean a set of vertices which has many edges. And it's a key primitive for finding communities in networks. There are many graph mining applications which use dense subgraphs. For instance, Gibson, Kumar and Tompkins found that dense subgraphs in the web graph correspond to thematic communities and also to that can be used to detect spam. There used in graph visualization applications in real time story identification motive, detection in DNA, predicting epilepsy. Finding correlated genes. And actually there are many many more applications.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So the prototypical then sub graph is a click. That means a set of vertices which is fully interconnected. So for instance, you can say click on four vertices here, but since this is too restrictive as we dim and all possible edges, there exists a notion of an Alpha quasi clique which actually requires that the set S has at least Alpha times S choose two edges. The cake or is we say that a set S is a cake, or if every vertex has degree at least K induced from that set S?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And how do we quantify the density of a graph? There exists different measures, the most natural one is the density, which is the number of edges divided by the cardinality of the set. Choose two. Of course, this is a number between zero and one. The average degree, which is 2 times the number of edges divided by the cardinality of the set. The triangle density, which is how many triangles are spanned by this subset of vertices divided by S, choose three.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
No, in our paper we have several contributions and I would like to say a few words about them. We introduce a general framework, which subsumes several popular density functions. We introduce a specific objective which we call optimal quasi cliques. We introduce an algorithm that gives additive error guarantees, and we also give a local search heuristic. We introduce two variants. We say the first one, top K, optimal quasi cliques and successful team formation applications we.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Valuate our methods on synthetic. Actually random graphs, paragraphs and tell those training graphs and also real datasets. And finally we give two applications successfully information from my computer scientists and finding highly correlated genes from a microarray data set. But first I would like to briefly go over some relate.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Work the maximum clique problem as everyone knows, here is an NP complete problem, and actually it's hopeless to approximate. It has that showed that unless P equals NP, there cannot exist a polynomial time algorithm that gives a better approximation factor than order enter the 1 minus epsilon for any epsilon positive. Notice that if you return just a single vertex, we always have a guaranteed approximation ratio order N.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And there is approach of trying to maximize some density function. For instance, you can try to maximize this density function, But this is a very bad idea and the reason is just a single edge achieves the maximum possible density, which is 1. So there exists. Other versions are trying to optimize the average degree which is called the densest subgraph problem, and there's this other versions where we restrict the card and we have some restrictions on the cardinality of the output. So if we restrict our settings to have K vertices, then we're trying to maximize the number of edges overall case sets. This is known as a kaydence subgraph problem, and there exists two more versions that dances at least K and the densest at most K. So there is this distinction. The densest subgraph problem can be solved in polynomial time, and there exists very fast also approximation algorithms to this problem. However, the other problems are hard.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So as I said, the densest subgraph can be is maximizing diverge degree. It can be solved with maximum flows and by careful rounding of an LP relaxation of an integer program and sharika gave a fast 1/2 approximation algorithm. Actually, I think this algorithm is first introduced by a subzero and others, but typically it's attributed to Charikar.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
The cadence of subgraph problem is NP hard and group of excellent researchers have worked on this problem. You can find more in our paper references, but five day course at spelling and many others have worked on approximation algorithms and caught another theoretician ruled out the possibility of Iapetus and their well respected complexity conjecture.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So the for the Alpha quasi cliques we say that said this is an Alpha. Basically if it has more than Alpha Time says choose two edges and Uno introduces an algorithm to enumerate all Alpha quasi cliques in a graph.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So let's see our framework. We define a potential function parameterized by some positive parameter Alpha. We trust science of value to a set of vertices. This value is equal to some function G which takes as argument the number of edges induced by the graph minus Alpha times some function H which takes as argument the cardinality of S and we demand in our framework. It's not. That's what we want for applications. We looked at JTH to be strictly increasing. Why? Because we're going to give reward to having many edges and we want to penalize large. Sets of vertices. So the optimal edge Sir plus problem is to find the Settings star which maximizes this objective.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So let's see a few instances. If we set G&H to be the logarithm function and Alpha to be one, then we get the dense subgraph problem. If we relax a little bit the monotonicity property, and we set G of X to be the identity function and H of X to be 0 if X = K and otherwise plus Infinity will get the Cayden subgraph problem. So it's a very general framework and you can see that we can have both efficiently solved solvable problems and very hard problems as well.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So the objective that we introduce comes out from introducing G as identity function and age to be X * X -- 1 / 2 and this results in maximizing this objective, which is the number of induced edges by S minus Alpha. Times eschews too, so we say that this problem is optimal quality click problem and we ask ourselves whether we can find actually family of objectives for which we can that we can solve efficiently. And actually we gave one example. If you take G to be the identity function and age to be concave, this is polynomial, then our problem is polynomial time solvable. But The thing is because of the concavity, it's not well suited for approximation since it will turn. Tend to return big subgraphs.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So with respect to the hardness of the problem, I believe it's hard and we give some indication why it's hard. So let's see if you there is this well respected conjecture that if you have a planted clique of size 1 to the 1/2 minus Delta for any Delta positive in an Erdos reyni G and 1/2 graph, it's a hard problem, so this is reduced to our problem. You can see that the planted clique has. Positive value and every other set of vertices actually is negative in expectation and this can be formalized further.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So what about since we believe it's hard? What about multiplicative approximation algorithms? Well, they're not suitable. We gave it's not in the paper, but we have approximation algorithm for a shifted objective whether not suitable becausw the optimal value of the objective can be negative in general, so other types of guarantees are more suitable.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So let's see. So we try to give approximation algorithms with additive guarantees, and we give an adaptation of the Charikar approximation algorithm, which goes like this. So you start with your whole graph and you generate a sequence of graphs with one vertex less at every iteration, and this vertex that is being removed is the one that has a minimum degree in the graph. So after you find all these graphs, you compute for each graph your objective and you return the one that gives you the maximum value and we prove that the output of this algorithm is not far away from the optimal. You have some small things here, times the size of the output graph, which tends to be small. The running time of this algorithm is linear, but the problem is that since graphs tend to be really big, we'd like to have algorithms that run in time, which is a function of the output and not of the whole graph, so.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
For this reason, we came up with local search heuristic which goes like this. So you start by initializing your settings with a random vertex and then until you reach a maximum number of iterations you keep expanding the set South with Vertex V. That gives you an improvement for your objective. If you cannot find one, you try to remove one, and if you succeed you go back here. If you cannot find one, then you stop. So it's a local search algorithm.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And we evaluate our algorithms on this collection of datasets. In the paper there are several small, medium and some graphs with few couple of millions of edges.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And here are the results. So this is the table from the paper and I know it's very hard for you to read, so I just zoomed into two rows of this table which are indicative of the flavor of the results you will see in all of the rows. So let's see that Wikipedia 2005 graph. DS refers to the densest subgraph problem. Method One refers to optimal quasi clicks using the greedy additive approximation algorithm and method two to the local search. Heuristic so the 1st three columns refer to the cardinality of the set South which is being output. So for the Wikipedia 2005 graph you can see that the density graph outputs at sub graph which spans 24,005 vertices, which is pretty big. Our algorithms return sets of vertices which have cardinality's 451 and 321. Which density in the densest subgraph is .26 for our methods is significantly larger. The diameter of the density graph is 3 for our method is 3, two respectively and the triangle density is also significant also. Pronounce compared to the dense subgraph, you can see similar results hold for the YouTube graph and also other graphs as well. So you're welcome to look at the paper to see all the data.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Here is the top K dense subgraph problem. So what we do after finding the first dense subgraph, we keep removing. More than subgraphs from the remaining graph, K is equal 10 here, and you can see with green color the Charikar method red color are greedy method and blue the local search heuristic. Here this plot you can see the edge density and here the size of the sub graph you can see Charikar method returns bigger sets with smaller edge density it ends. It turns out that our heuristic works better than that if approximation method that we give and for the diameter similar flavor results of results. Charikar has larger diameter local search. Touristic is much better. It actually finds full clicks and also. Small, compact subgraphs.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So we have another version and the optimal constraint optimal quasi clique problem, which goes like like this. You have a fixed set of vertices which for some reason is interesting and you want to find then sub graph which contains all of this set Q. So this turns out to be NP hard and we can observe that both the algorithms that would give for the unconstrained case can be easily adapted to the constraint case. For instance for the local search algorithm. You initialize a set S instead with a random vertex with the set Q and you never remove any vertex from the set Q and degree dissimilarly never pulled software vertex from your set cube.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So let's talk about two applications, and then I'll conclude. So suppose we have a set of set queue of computer scientists and we want to organize a workshop. So how can we try from? Some link information. Actually we're going to use a DP graph to find a successful group of computer scientists.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So we use a DP graph as I said and we gave two queries which are based on Christmas. Papadimitriou, who is prolific computer. Scientists with a lot of interest. So the first query set was Christmas Papadimitriou. And sorry if I mispronounced the name search Abiteboul and you can see that our algorithms return sets of vertices which actually our database people like Paris Kanellakis, Jeff Fullman, Jim Gray, and many other famous database people. And if you if we actually.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
They give Papadimitriou and Manuel Blum for one round of our algorithm. We get theoretical computer scientists like Yannakakis, Preparata, gibbous, Mehlhorn, and Karp and others. So you can see more in our paper and the details of how we run these algorithms.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And the last application I would like to discuss is a microarray by informatics application. So we have a microarray data set and we have a set. Of jeans Q and want to find a set of genes South that include Q and they are all highly correlated among each other. So there exists a standard methodology in the literature of how you do this. So you create the coexpression network by taking your microarray data set. You create a correlation matrix among the expressions of each pair of jeans and you add an edge between two genes if their correlation exceeds some threshold. So it then sub graph corresponds to this set of highly correlated genes and.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
What we did. We took a microarray data set. The details you again I skipped them for the sake of time. You can find them in the paper and we gave us our set Q there. The gene P 53, which is known to be a very critical gene in breast cancer and what we found is a collection of genes which are highly correlated with plausible biological explanation, which I'm not an expert morality this and you can find more details.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
I would like to conclude by saying that the hardness has not been resolved, but we're looking at it. The analysis of the local search algorithm is interesting and in general local algorithms that run in time which is proportional to the size of the output rather than the whole graph. Other algorithms with additive approximation guarantees are desirable. Since, as we said in the general case, multiplicative guarantees are not appropriate, and finally a natural family of objective objectives that could be studied, I think is this family where we try to maximize the number of induced edges minus Alpha times South to the gamma for gamma greater than one. To guarantee the convexity of this part. So we like to.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Thank you.
