What do we need to talk today is to show you a brief overview of what we can do with high performance computing for gas turbine. Actually, the very large range of applications, not just ironic. OK, this is the evolution of the computing capabilities in the world during the past 20 years. Turbulence is the enemy of all silly. So the question is, can supercomputers accurately predict the future and basically what we are asking for? When will you test a designer new design will simply ask to the card? OK, this is what we want. Keep in mind that more than 80% of electricity in the world is produced by means of double machinery, more than 80%, so that's really a huge associator. So that's the question why my parrot efficiency is so bad. And for example, you can use some graph theory algorithm, so maybe you can know you know the Seven Bridges program reported by you. Mesh partitioning and load balancing. Now, let's talk about your life. So it will teach you load balancing errors. He said that the troubleshooting flow is available free dynamical result because it's characterized by separation richemond transition organization, retransition all this events occurring in the same flow at the same time. Global communications you are reducing the number of MD NPI in message. You have to change the look so something very good. So in this case you lost about 20% of the total CPU time simply because the part of of my processors are working. So what just went right to keep in mind that it's value mandatory when you consider high performance computing for servers to reduce as much as possible the size and the number of messages you want to exchange. It's really mandatory if you want to achieve a good scalability. For example, if you consider sensitive of office scheming, if you need something like 10 points around yourself, it will increase the size of the MPI your communication. I will first urge you presented the players, I mean by players cuts, CFD cuts and the humans behind the behind Lucas. While my CFD code perform badly on the parallel detecteur and what we can do to to overcome this problem, then I'm going to show you. Do something like that why thousand costs we split holding girls the number of blocks has been multiplied by 8 and the size of the configuration due to the seller has been increased by something like 50%. Basically the number of particles that each computing car's to take into account. Being that OK I can run my lips and my application very fast, but does it mean I doing some good physics? This is the French aerospace lab is made up of about 2000 people, so it's quite a big company. So to train highly skilled engineers and scientists to address the future challenges of aeronautics industry. Yeah, it's the effect of not ordering. And you see the culture behavior of fuel for server and just it reflects the true nature of turbulence. OK, can we certify that our engine can be restricted even in extreme conditions? So today capability of combustion chamber shoot through achievement. In one hour or so, that makes question this glitch, you get the energy from the nuclear power plant during 100 seconds. We are coming from the United Center, is fully reversed and we can just do this kind of simulation study. And the estimated cost of this simulation is something like 15 million CPU hours. 1500 seconds after nuclear power plant. And then just again application of super jet noise. To say that the aircraft will not reach it much noise than a given level. Sometimes you don't know all the physical parameters of the solution. For example at the world, because we can answer changes. Transfer it, transfer on the right pressure to buy at this time to design A product we are seeking for 1% less than 1% error between the simulation and what you have in reality simply because the difference about 1% on the temperature at mid span of life means inside duration is reduced by a factor 2. For much more better on that. To get the best of high performance computers and what you have so to keep in mind that there is currently a very strong competition between the grid were going to be for us such as USA, China and Europe to be the first to get over the step of exascale computing. She would like to thank you for your attention and if you're quick then we'll figure for me to answer. Developed by owner and surf racks and it is used by most of aeronautics companies in France such as Airbus, work up their stuff, Horseneck mind Troublemaker and EDF. This is a compressible finite volume for server with multiblock structure meshes capabilities. Discard these on it by Sir Flex and is mainly developed by SURFAXIN. IFP is also occurred that is largely used for industrial applications, especially by suffering for the design of combustion chamber. There are not commercial flow servers with human machine interface.