[0.0s - 29.0s]
First, I would like to hear thanks along coastal I will tell me to to do this presentation. I would like to also to censor material Murphy for everything or do arrangement and. Thank you very much for that. What do we need to talk today is to show you a brief overview of what we can do with high performance computing for gas turbine. Frozen, especially aware that in current and future challenges we have to address, we says have different server to improve the product. Bridging of our original mix applications as well as gas turbine and so on so. This work has been prepared based on materials obtaining the in the CFD team. It's approx. I will show you also some example. This is a Corporation basically between many many different organizations such as an error that's why initially gathered here so today and this is a word that is mainly supported by our industry partners such as Airbus and Stuff Home. What I want in the next hour is just to tell your story. This is the story of high performance computing in France. How we develop our cuts, how we make some mistakes sometimes, and how we can improve the quality of the curtain and how we can simply. Develop and adapt this flow servers too and you high performance computing architectures. So first, while this yr performance computing is so important for gas turbine.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
First, let me show you a very simple question that everybody can understand in the in this room. Energy today is obtained from Commission more than 80% of the energy consuming Earth confirmed the completion of gas oil encode. That's program because as you know there are some fuel depletion. The cost of oil is increasing year after year. So we have ready to reduce the impact. And the consumption of aeronautics product to adapt them to the fuel depletion. So we have now to improve the efficiency of aircraft, the efficiency of gas turbine and OK auto product. Basically that consume some some energy. I don't think you have to.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Keep in mind that more than 80% of electricity in the world is produced by means of double machinery, more than 80%, so that's really a huge associator. Go yeah, if you if we can improve the efficiency of gas turbines, it has a direct impact on the on the production of electricity and it can reduce help to reduce the CO2 emissions for example. So that's really important to do that today. And why?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
It's so difficult to do. The problem is that in this kind of of complex industrial systems that just over machinery and aircraft, we can observe very complex flows. I show you yeah, example of the flow in the around the black profile and you can see that you have some transition and different time of transition. Considering the cursor side or restriction side. And as I like this. Sense from Doctor January from the segments University. He said that the troubleshooting flow is available free dynamical result because it's characterized by separation richemond transition organization, retransition all this events occurring in the same flow at the same time. So if you cannot deal with such complex process, we will miss the real performance of our projects and you cannot expect to achieve a good accuracy. With your full server, you cannot deal with that. And that's really important. Now if we want to really to improve. Just your performance of the performance of an aircraft.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So it is a short overview of my talk. I will first urge you presented the players, I mean by players cuts, CFD cuts and the humans behind the behind Lucas. I'm not going to show you everything that is working. I'm going to show you what it doesn't work and how. What we can do to fix the problems, and that's the process of innovation we have to identify why there are some problems. While my CFD code perform badly on the parallel detecteur and what we can do to to overcome this problem, then I'm going to show you. I tell you what what I performance computing can do for just your building industry and for aircraft industry.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So first let me to present you on your home. Now is the the company where Michelle is actually working. This is the French aerospace lab is made up of about 2000 people, so it's quite a big company. It's more or less are a break between academic research and industrial applications so that you can. There are three different competent centers. The first one is higher analytics, the second space and the third one is the ships. So basically the objectives of an error Archie promote. In technology other sets. Academic word to design real real products. So it's a science term, lobster industry and those are objective of fun arises. So to train highly skilled engineers and scientists to address the future challenges of aeronautics industry.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The second player is suffix. OK, this is my company Simplex is a smallest, is a smaller Resource Center. We are about 100 shared in four different teams. OK, but it's a private company. We are funded mainly by order older guys here, so he address is basically Airbus and we are also working alot. Alot of receptor on the rise of one of my shoulders and I'm working the CFT team so the CFD team. Is split in three different activities, Aerodynamics, Barcraft, Commission and Trouble Machinery and the group leader of the Turbomachinery activity.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
OK, now let's go to the God. She's just on the review. This is a cut Elsa which is a stricter for server. Many design for hire dynamics applications. So discard is on it by an errand so junky. Developed by owner and surf racks and it is used by most of aeronautics companies in France such as Airbus, work up their stuff, Horseneck mind Troublemaker and EDF. EDF is not working. I would enemies, but is also using this discarded for nuclear applications. This is a compressible finite volume for server with multiblock structure meshes capabilities. The architecture is adapted to massively parallel computer because OK we can run this time till something like 10,020 thousand computing curves with the correct efficiency. Another advantage the you can have different level of modeling insider cards such as runs, GSN, Hell yes I don't know if you are really convertible with these different categories of of local servers. You know ideas entrance OK please resident and OK. We are only two or three people to know what his runs an alias. OK, and. OK, nice.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The other code is AVP, which is an instructor cut for active frozen. Discard these on it by Sir Flex and is mainly developed by SURFAXIN. IFP is also occurred that is largely used for industrial applications, especially by suffering for the design of combustion chamber. This is this unstructured, Kurtz's also very large, massively parallel capabilities and lost. Let's benchmark software running on about 100,000 trucks and show good efficiency. So that that's because basically answer 2 cuts scales better than structure one, so.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
OK, discuss what you have to keep in mind. Just different from what you saw during the last days. There are not commercial flow servers with human machine interface. I mean graphic interface. Just click some buttons and get the solution. It's a different philosophy, but one again one what you have to keep in mind that discards are using.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Need to to do that. We are designing real aircraft. This is the code used by Airbus to design the aircraft such as the three or 50 or Direct Realty order aircraft design at Airbus are do designer with with Elsa.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
We are designers so that this is the Tiger you got there, done by and look up down OK.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Actually, the very large range of applications, not just ironic. For this we we are also dealing with motor engine from radio for example true OK to increase the efficiency of of. I mean, we're dealing with just revise and we very large family of this project. All these programs are designed with as a as a provider. Original mix of AVP for Commission. So these are real life cops. They are really used in industry to design this kind of product.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
No, I would like to just to explain briefly what what industry can expect from my preference computing capabilities in this kind of servers, what more CPU power really mean for industry?

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, this is the evolution of the computing capabilities in the world during the past 20 years. Basically, so as you can see, there is quite a linear progression, so we can anticipate what will be the power available. For example, in five or six years, and we have to take this. This kind of operation to account in order to adapt our first of all, that means most of the computer is in the in the top five. Do it, no make from thousands 100 thousands of computing curve. So if you feel server cannot run on one under 8000 curves, at least in a couple of years will be simply out of the game. So that's very important. That's Monday to reach you to be able to run on this kind of computer with good efficiency not only on day or one and recurse. I mean many thousands computing course should run at the same time to serve your program.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK, what is the problem? Others I said that right before we experience very complex pros that are many Reggie turbulence. Turbulence is the enemy of all silly. 'cause that's the biggest problem we have to solve with their different servers. We have basically two different times of turbulence. The first one can be the younger children's narrative bye bye. Worse. Of course in this kind of an aircraft or you know just. Kind of worst everywhere. So OK turbulence close towards is strongly of tropics, so that means it's really hard to get an accurate model to represent what the plans for the worse. And user and it's the 1st St turbulence this kind of turbulence is so very important because it can modify the transition point on on the blade for example, or or around the wing. Probably if you are interesting in my order things, you know that the design of programming our ring is something that is currently seeking for bias to increase the performance and reduce the dragon. For example an aircraft. So that's the enemy, OK? Procede 'cause we have to deal with this. With this kind of physics.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So the question is, can supercomputers accurately predict the future and basically what we are asking for? When will you test a designer new design will simply ask to the card? Can you show me what will be the performance of of my product that you have to anticipate? And there is also very interesting. Paper you can rate at this address getting with the really the prediction of future by supercomputers. That's very important. I mean future such as awards or something like that. Just the design of aircraft. But OK, I'm really encourage you to read this topics. Very interesting.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So back to my world, what we can do with more computing power is something like that. Actually, we are here. That means turbulence is simply modeled for industrial applications. Mothers everything that mean order turbulence is taken into account. Only your model. It's not universal. It's OK. Maybe it doesn't work so bad, but he's really not perfect and we want to move to this part of the graph. Here you can serve the fullness group. Situation prevents that due to the eye winners number. You are in aircraft are disturbing. We cannot, even with computing means. So the full navier Stokes equation. So that means you have to model at least a bit. That's what we are looking for. And yes, the simulation on your for the largest 80 of turbulence in the flow. So if we can increase the computing power if we can get more secure, we can see from runs. To alias and maybe OK in the in the long time to ugliness. So that's what we want to do, and that's it.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
It means something like that. So this is just a steady solution. That's what what is used at this time to design aircraft and gas to rise. Let's get your answer. You can just represent basically the periotic and steadiness offer from so the pioneer curves analysis. The relative motion between the fixed and moving place and we want to move to areas where you represented the worst. Most of the of the flow scales and most of the turbulence. So we guess, and we're pretty sure that if we can move to this. We can really increase the predicting capabilities of our free service, and that's really what we want to do today. If you want to design something completely, completely new, you cannot just can break your run smoother and you have to switch to this kind of computing approach.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
OK, this is what we want. This is the speed up so the performance of my club Oregon do number of computing course you use at the same time. So basically if I run a simulation on 100 cards I simply expect that the time of restitution will be one under 100. That's the perfect speedup. Actually this is not what.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Most of the time looks at this type of thing. I mean when we increase. The number of computing girls you don't get to speed up sometimes observe very poor performance. In the next size I will show you some examples of what can really happen. Please play in this time of the area. In this case, it simply means that using more than something like 10 or 20 girls is just useless. We just burn your computer for nothing.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So that's the question why my parrot efficiency is so bad. Sometimes when I deal with we are life applications. Really like because it's a teamwork to design a full server. For example Airbus also from ask us for newer functionalities should design their product so there are no more or less what they want to do that too. The OK I die for team leader to to do that too. OK to design the what can be the functionality in the code then then that's too. Program are you located? You drop them in turn and then OK. You can see the front part of these tasks and again you you get that. So that's real life problems. That's really happens when you design the city code. You are not alone in your office. You design your. You've got little many, many different people from different companies, from industrial wells from academic growth that after work together. So it's a really out team task program.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
No, just two or some of the details. When you run in the second story mode, we have just one program with one big measures on personal human being on the 11 CPU and when you want to run the same program on different. Many, I mean your compassion person. You have some Peach. You adapted the program. That means, for example, this is my information. I have to speak the nation and share the different part of the machines on the on my computing curves and you have to take into account load balance programs because each computing curve should work with a similar shaft and or the user course. So there are different kind of different ways to do that. I.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And for example, you can use some graph theory algorithm, so maybe you can know you know the Seven Bridges program reported by you. Learn OK or couple of years ago. For example, it's just across each bridge by but just one time out. Can I cross each bridge? What just one time to celebrate without to go back to the previous previous fast? Actually this problem has no solution, but OK, that's basically what we're trying to do when you have to make the communication path between the different computing curves. So that can be a problem.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK, I will just keep this graph itself some OK, we have some measures to help through and reduce and improve a bit the performance of this of this partnership. Mesh partitioning and load balancing. So that's.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Just hurry back. Now, let's talk about your life. We we have plenty of effects in the CFD code that fight against perfect load balancing.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
There are some of these effects. In the CFD code, sometimes you use adaptive mesh refinement. For example, when you observe typical very sharp physics with which I gradient in the part of the flow we want to refine the measurement during the simulation, so it will modify your balancing. For example, if you share perfectly the work between all computing curves at the beginning and you want to refine just a part of your of your design of your. Blade for example, which will modify group balancing. So that means 1 processor will work more than the other. So it will teach you load balancing errors. You can use adaptive physics model, so in this case the computer for network can varies overtime. So because some points may need to be re distributed among computing course, and so OK, that's also difficulty we can have. In which phase flow simulations when we consider participating, for example, flow and particles inside the particulars can move everywhere. I will show you an example. But now after the parties are moving in the in your in your simulation and if you don't take this into account, that means for example at a time. A girl a computer can observe a lot of particulars at the same time, so we will work around when the computer in the neighborhood computer, we will have less particular, so it can also be true. Load balancing errors and the problem of multiphysics applications also. When you when you run simulation, for example with three different parts 1 from 1 as the 1st order, one from Terminal 1 from radiation and so on. All these costs have to discuss together, and that's much more complex problem than run just a single server.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And so I'm going now to show you OK, 22 examples of bad, bad performance explanations. I don't know if you are confortable with this kind of thing, MPI communications, you know everybody knows in the room rest, so I'm just too OK to explain very simply outworks. For example, you can add the point to point communications that makes. 11 computing curve will discuss with just under the computing curve that just discussing together 2 two computing curves making some extent. That's for example to them a strategy that have been used in the ADP card at the beginning for input output. Right and under under discount in the course serving the problem and when you want to write some single solution, for example on this there are discussing with the curve just one curve and this girl. Make them the right in the underneath. Alright this solution, which is some basic T 22 by 10 messages where any student look computing course. User strategies to use creative communications in the OK. In this this case that you are using the trigger off. So this is a statement in view of the creative work and order occurs. Discussed more or less together so the idea behind this style of fabric communication is to reduce the number of messages you have to exchange to do the same work these days. By log N 1 by 1 again, and instead of computing also in this case compared to the point it will reduce the number of messages you have to exchange.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Let me to show you what is the influence of this kind of communication on the on the performance of. OK, this is a conditional chamber. Field of the world number, which is made up about. The 70 million cells. OK, this is the creation of the number of points on each computer. Depending on the number of CPU, everything, but simply why you are using about 10,000 computing personal wealth sales on each parents involved, which is 10,000. So.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So 3rd Gen implementation of the cut was with point to point communication at least two by any messages and what it is. What we observe sees the speedup. And with respect to the number of this view you are using, so this is the bigger speed up and I can see when you are using more than 4050 girls you will serve. Very bad performance because you are using for example in this case and 8000 cost mean you your performance is worse than if you are using on the floor. Have those and I. I mean you're using 1000 birth mean you will need more time to get the solution then using a 4000 per slide number. That's a really bad performance. And now if we are moving to.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Global communications you are reducing the number of MD NPI in message. You have to change the look so something very good. The performance is largely increased. And you can observe even with the 8 doesn't cost nearly 80% efficiency. Just on this application so. Basically, the way you have make the communication is very important. Sometimes a point to point communication can work better. It depends on what you want to do.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Let me.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
So you understand example, which is quite complex. I'm sorry, but if you have some questions we can just discuss after my speech. So this is the the fulfilled in the compressor. This conversation is being designed by Snake Map. Basically this is our pressure compressor that you can find on the CFM 56 OK. The most the most sale on him in the world. Here you have the 60 controls and as we can see there is one word that is moving while there is our fixed so you have to change the information at the interface. Here we see the dashed lines. So the problem would be out. Can I change the information between the two moving towards? And.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
OK, this is a. What happens OK? We have basically two. This is Mr. We have two different to communications point to point and global communication. When we're dealing with blocks inside your hurdle flow while using point to point communication except at the interface at the.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Here we are using global communication because you are different. On the other two sides of the of the interface and depth to communicate together. So you cannot just one computer to discuss with another run, you have to take into account all the computers from one side and intervention overlooking Crossman, kill the side of nature fixed so.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
You have to use a political medications mandatory. You don't have their choice. An OK. Each line represents the work done by one CPU. When you add some white but it means the CPU is working, it makes a complication of the flu and the Gray part are relative to point to point communications and do that. The black parties reticulated post. This CPU. R. Average IQ do interface. While this one here don't get no worries about what the plans that they have a job just complete curves in the rest of the of the freedom. As you can see here, there are some huge time of politicos compared to this one simply because this one are still working. Like this one already have finished their job. So that means Indian.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Is Casey. Order up some sorry looking OK there. About or disrupt, I'll just waste time. OK, it's simply because when when you are here the process are simply waiting for the information coming from user. So in this case you lost about 20% of the total CPU time simply because the part of of my processors are working. That's because the communication are not well balanced. If we were in my simulation, I mean maybe the number of breakpoints but not the communication or the comparison order order processor are not doing the same work. Radiant communications some have to do more than the other, so that's why we are losing so much time.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So what just went right to keep in mind that it's value mandatory when you consider high performance computing for servers to reduce as much as possible the size and the number of messages you want to exchange. It's really mandatory if you want to achieve a good scalability. I didn't talk about numerical method, but of course the different the OK, some numerical schemes better adapted to high performance computing that browser. For example, if you consider sensitive of office scheming, if you need something like 10 points around yourself, it will increase the size of the MPI your communication. So you have to consider very compact schemes if you want to achieve a good scalability that's silver. Burton and OK. This will peak load balancing my speaking and so on will be discussed this afternoon for the people that I tend to go to advance and we sell some.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
OK, no, I'm not. I want to show you. Some of the bottlenecks we are OK, I really you're disgusting.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
That but for example multiphysics with different meaningful servers that do to run at the same time. September we said about directorship to Bonnie, just see the Germans here. So there is a full server for Commission, every random number and send it to back you up. It transfer or so around the blade and in the contender. So this is done with another code AVP in this case and you've also got from radiation. Radiation is really important for commitment to burn when you observe something like 10,000 Kelvin. Number two, we produce a lot of radiation. So OK, the temperature inside a constant. But these music so. The triggers are dismissing, discussing with thanks to a good coping tool, which is called open bar and develop their sore by yourself, Axon and owner. In this case, this is really complex to balance that route to completely charge between all the computers, because some computing curves are dealing with tradition, other one was free dynamics for awhile music transferring so and so that's where your problem. That can reduce the performance of. Up for the dissimulation.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
And there's a problem that you can observe is specific to a structure OK, but where is up and which is the structure of the server? Is the impact of the space we are using for performance reasons we are using some good sales at the interface. That means when you speak, speak to block in two parts. You are I need some new quests. You don't need a box. So this is a new gas sales will increase the size of your problem. Let me show you.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
On this number back to the presser OK Baby Step program was made of about 2000 drops. In a number of growth and we want to speak this configuration to run more processor. Do something like that why thousand costs we split holding girls the number of blocks has been multiplied by 8 and the size of the configuration due to the seller has been increased by something like 50%. That means to run this problem you need 50% tomorrow memory. Then to run this one. So it can be also problem. So one of them you have to take this kind of behavior into account issue. Want to adapt? Adapt your problem and although maybe the sellers are not well adapted to high performance computing, but OK, that's. The kind of program we we have to deal with.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
And just I want to show you also. OK, it's quite a beautiful movie so I can take time for you. This is an interface full simulation, so you have some packages here. To spray in the Commission chamber and you can see that we start teachers moving everywhere in the configuration. So OK if you want to achieve the correct performance on you parallel computer, you have to adapt to OK the load balancing. Basically at each time step because the particles are moving everywhere, so it's very it's very complex to achieve a good scalability with this kind of application, I'm going to show you an example.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
OK. This is my job, my box this is OK there where the the particles are injected should basically opens from chamber. This is done. We say BP so if you consider just. One constraint based on the on the geometry. I mean the number of websites. This court stating I agree, we will give you something like that because yeah, you can send that the number of seats on this product is quite similar to the number of sales just on this problem because you have some really larger volumes. This everyone here. So I'm going to show you after that performance is dying off the dog Speaking of. Yeah, and here we are. And there's a constraint we are using. Also the number of particles, the number of particles can be equally distributed in the world volume. I mean we don't see a particularly would be quite soon. So if you take into account the effect of particles, we can observe that the city is completely different.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
And the performance too. When the weapon, this is the the computing. Basically the number of particles that each computing car's to take into account. So with the just straight advice and based on the number of 6. So that means if there is just one computing girl that does do, isn't that just a certain most of the procedures where user don't have to do? And when we take into account the density of particulars in the in, the flow concerned that of course the charges but well bands between other competing cars. Performance issues seen the basically the speedup. OK, this is you have to either speed up and you can see that with just geometry constraint. Speaking to observe quite by performance even with low number of complete person when you better balance the new computer in charge of the processors that we're basically going to the perfect speedup.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
OK, that's a question I would like to ask you. Do you think that I performance very computing? Being that OK I can run my lips and my application very fast, but does it mean I doing some good physics? I got you OK run my simulation on thousands of computers. Can it affect my solution? What is your opinion about that? Do you think you can modify the solution or not? Yeah, sure.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Sure. Simply due to this time, for example of behavior, this is the OK. A way to compute my residual. OK, you can. OK there is just one point here. You have the influence of full volumes around, so you can make this kind of additional one is at 3% full. Him this is the first way to conclude my residual. This is this.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
One way to do that is that for. Depends since we are sometimes she was using nonblocking communication, MPI communication. You have no reason to observe all the time. The same behavior. OK, I can just make my addition in different ways. OK you can see. Doesn't effect cause some one way or another? Rent is the same thing, but it's not.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
It's not because you can observe some rounding errors even if they are very small. You have some rounding errors that will be not identical if you make the addition that or that and the result is that after.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Yeah, given time you will look self completely different fulfills, especially if you are dealing with Elias because areas is accounting it represented turbulence which is accounted phenomenon. So due to the chaotic nature of turbulence, if you don't do exactly the same thing. You will observe some OK growing worse in the group. Another woman time to fulfill doctor's different. Yeah, we're starting with the same field exactly the same thing. And we serve it on full computer computers and on a computing cards and. Given time to observe that the filters are not you don't you could. It's not a burger, it's it's not a big because simply it reflect the true nature of turbulence.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
If we are running OK, this is basically the same kind of effects. Yeah, it's the effect of not ordering. You can order. Do not computing cars in different ways. So that you will observe that after given time setting number 10 said the solution. I'll just different. This is the error between the simulation, so we've done a growing around the time around the diamond so at the end of just for peace out differently. But now if you are solving Afro let me know through is not affected by turbulence by definition. So that means he says the error. Just the growing, but if you are dealing with such turbulent flows in this case, OK, you have to keep in mind that if you run the simulation of different time, different number of versus ours. Again, the profit will be not exactly the same statistics of the flow should be done to code, but not exactly the phone itself. But as I said. And you see the culture behavior of fuel for server and just it reflects the true nature of turbulence.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
So I have something like Tango 15 minutes now or just when you want. We stopped just OK ask me yeah I am going to. To end my talk I what I want to show you now some examples of what I performance computing and see if we can do for designers.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
So. This is a gas turbine. OK, I don't know if everybody is compatible with that, but. Compressor the customer before buying. Usually I prefer state in the group stage. Indices that do exist OK we have different kind of problem but I guess those green marketing is definitely concerned with stability. The compression system is OK and stable by nature due to diversification into gradient between the pressure is I and slow here. So that means those who want to go back to the user side. And the constant embarrasses so something that can be unstable sometimes, so we can anticipate this kind of instabilities thanks to see.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Let's start with the Commission programs, so this is a view of the consumer. So from here, with the lyrics in between her and tourism and you are running yeah, and then the world through Treasure Quest. The official to buy. So this is a viewer for food and air burner. So the question is, what can I get from my 1 million severe weather simulation? Just to give you a magnet in order at about $0.10 to cluster for one CPR word means run solution. Magnetics, just like spend one 100,000 euros. 2320 question so we don't do that just for fun, OK? Not just forfeit.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
And then. This weekend OK, this is an example of what we can observe. You can see that they are the injectors where the OK to the machines with food and flavors anything and what you observe. Is that the the flame is just moving deals with activation? This is an instability that is huge. You do coupling between the demo field and the pressure field. Again, this is what we call. I could download plastic and stability and that's something that can really happen in real combustion chamber. But if you trying to solve this kind of program with the runs approach where we model the turbulence, you will never achieve it. You have to use areas in for this service kind of program and you have spent 1 million CPU hours to to get the solution and that is always it's already less confident. Read the the Commission Chamber and test it on the experimental rig and observed instability because, OK. Designing something like that, and Bridget it's more than millions euros to do that and we need to spend much more time than to run the simulation. That's the way for industry to use simulation and specially ideas to validate the design before to build it.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
And those abilities OK. Sometimes we have very interesting questions from our industry partners, for instance, to permit cost us. OK, can we certify that our engine can be restricted even in extreme conditions? For example, high altitude and low temperature? For example in the contains or something like that if I OK. Yeah, if the filter is landing on the top of a maintain and shutdown is a is a Angie can can you restart every every time. And then unfreeze.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
OK, maybe. Just to agree to the process of. OK. Dutch to ignite the combustion process. In addition, transparent, so you can observe the way of the flame to prepare later. OK, you have basically two points of ignition in the in the constant companion things there. You got the feeling that she's moving around the room, number 2. Would need all the burners. So today capability of combustion chamber shoot through achievement. That depends of course on the on the field and that and it's really sensitive to. I mean, if the temperature is just to be true. Is that true or something like that? It will not work, but you can access that. We said yes again. Another example is.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
The instabilities already demonstrated using compression systems. I don't know if you know what you search. Search is one guy. I was anemic instability that occurs in old compression systems. Simply because, as I already said, the flow is at the high pressure at the exit of the compressor and you want to go back at the inlet. Because if you are just OK, try take volume with high pressure and volume was super sure. Just remove the separation between the two volumes and we see that for certain to uniformizing the volume and then advance when the compression system can not give sufficient energy to the flu too. Central banks address pressure gradient. Internet points especially. Every across the board where you are seeking to very high performance and OK. Something like that, but also sometimes on civil enemies. But number when you have some birds that go through the dungeon or functionality can lead to some distortion of the fluid in neck and induce search and just something you don't want to experience by yourself, especially if you are in the aircraft because the program is that it's self sustained phenomenon. And the only way to do that is to shut down the dungeon and go back and OK. Be able to lend no safe manner, but OK, it really happens sometimes.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
An one again is something you can simulate for 1,000,000 superior simulation just to give you an order. So it's very tricky consumption. You have to spend to run such a simulation. It's obscene language search. In one hour or so, that makes question this glitch, you get the energy from the nuclear power plant during 100 seconds. Is the energy I have to spend to run my simulation. It's not just a problem of money I would cost, but it's also the energy you have to get from the electric. In that work, two to run the simulation. So OK, maybe we want to reduce a bit. Our CEO oh emission, but we have to spend so two emissions before to help to reduce it. So OK, we appreciate we do that correctly, but. OK, this is an example of self cycle. He looks at me and she's still completion. Since then she stands. There are different rules and there. Moving over one day this request we can observe some instabilities and then the flow go back into your other direction. So at this time the flow is known. We are coming from the United Center, is fully reversed and we can just do this kind of simulation study. What will be the response of the blades? For example, choose some mechanical solution solicitations during this, because, OK? Go back to the way it introduces very strong constraints and very different through that. The food that is expected at the at the design stage. So OK, run. Such simulation is really mandatory today for designer to design better predict and reduce the margin. The design margin, because since we cannot. Is to make the prydwen so she can hear OK designer sleep very rude to serve, marching to avoid it.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
Another example of. 1 million CPR simulation I love 1,000,000 square. OK so just to give you some magnitude order to compare what we can get from the different decision. So this is a test to run simulation. So this is basically what the industry is doing at this time and this season AS one. So the ratio between the two simulation something like 1000. So that means I can run 1000 simulations like this one for the SIM card at one point. But you can see that the flow simply doesn't look. We don't support your yeah. The modeling OK take into account only the main effect of turbulence and not really correctly while. Various treatment rules, and that's only affect, especially the rear part of the low compression system. We can observe some transition. Yeah, and some food store and so on. So the physics is different, but I will definitely. Be more confident in this type of solution than in Skype structure, but at this time this is the way to estimate the performance of the computer system that this one, simply because it's still a bit closer, but we are just preparing the future.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
I know we are even moving with the biggest simulation disease replaced project led by surprise with the help of Uncommon Institute and willingness to offer another and we attempt to run GNS into high pressure turbine component with a grade of about 6 billion points. And the estimated cost of this simulation is something like 15 million CPU hours. So it means to run this. I have spent before. 1500 seconds after nuclear power plant. So OK, that's really huge electric consumption, but from this kind of simulation we can expect also very valuable data, specially for example to validate lower order modeling. If I want to do another run simulation with the model for tribulus I can better validate my mother thanks to the data obtained with this kind of simulation, so that's really important to be able to do that. At least one simulation to validate all other low-cost methods.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
And then just again application of super jet noise. That noise is a big problem because you you know that now for certification of aircraft you have to be able. To say that the aircraft will not reach it much noise than a given level. And it's also one of the objective of the 2020 Acarya program that want to reduce by 50% the the noise emitted by the aircraft. Rhonda Aircraft, for example. So we also dealing with this kind of flow.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
And we are able to simulate the noise emitted by a very object behind the engine. Thanks Stuart well yeah, so it's also done in the in the different work of Christ project when we expect to spend something like 2025 millions per hours to do that. And an application. So that is true. Test server control to reduce the noise. You can ask them, allocate some devices here dissemination and to test if it can be a good way to reduce the noise and then if OK if the simulation. So yeah so. Good solution to to reduce noise. You can just test it on a real engine.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
Just to finish, I want to show you also this one of the program we have with simulation. Sometimes you don't know all the physical parameters of the solution. My pleasure to mine, we don't know exactly what's what's the the behavior of the flooding that you can just imagine you have. Maybe you have some experimental data, but even experimental data you you have some uncertainties on the experimental data. Don't know exactly what is the condition. For example at the world, because we can answer changes. So you have to take into account or decent certainties or all these unknown parameters on your simulation, because it's just an incensed to compare or your simulation. With some OK, every paramenter you don't manage correctly with an experimental data, but not that that's a mistake. And by most of the students at this time, just want to compare your simulation with so much in certainties with the experimental data, just nonsense. You're taking joy. Clinch the entrance of such uncertain parameters on your solution. If you don't do that, you simply cannot compare efficiently with search for mental data are even analytical solutions. So I performance computing and parallel computing can help us. So to do that, because you can basically estimate the sensitivity of local solution to unknown power down by running OK. Something like 1000 competition for example with two unknown parameters.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
I get something like that. OK, this is a surprise restaurant. I'll be much recommend she, but this is something very important for designers. This is it. Transfer it, transfer on the right pressure to buy at this time to design A product we are seeking for 1% less than 1% error between the simulation and what you have in reality simply because the difference about 1% on the temperature at mid span of life means inside duration is reduced by a factor 2. So it's a difference between. By jumping can write 1000 hours mission or just a 55 hundreds. So that's something very important. OK, this is transfer. This is the sunroom the the children were the winning agent and the group Coeur d'Alene Blucher least my solution without uncertainty. I simply run simulation with the data. You can see that, especially in the future, inside the simulation. For much more better on that. So that means the fact that the solution is not good until 6:00 AM. Time is simply because you cannot manage correctly and you don't have the correct input parameters in your simulation. But under pressure, silent, even by any the uncertainties, we don't perform orbital stage. Simply modeling modeling of champions is not correct and you have to run ideas to perform beta. OK, we we we tried it first and then we run it. Yes the delivery of it translates correctly estimated, but it's much more precedent. Runs like that.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
So it brings us to the conclusion. Computer I've are being very rapidly so that means when you are working on for servers you have to adapt your card all the time and constantly. You cannot just design your card and say OK, it will works in the same manner in 10 years which is completely. First you have to adapt the code constantly. To get the best of high performance computers and what you have so to keep in mind that there is currently a very strong competition between the grid were going to be for us such as USA, China and Europe to be the first to get over the step of exascale computing. So the the the country that we do that we get this easy because I'm excited for its industry because the capability to improve. I I notice our automotive products directly rely now on the capability to get the best of supercomputing. So that's very important, but there is something that is still missing at this time. We are to train. An I skilled scientists and engineers to get the best of this of this computer. It's just a part of the problem supercomputing, but after after that you have to be able to to get the best food too. OK to to be able to, OK to design new products can be particular about the simulation you you get from from the computer, so that's very important also, and that's probably why you are here today and I strongly encourage you to go this way because there are. OK, or still a lot of work and job opportunities in the for this kind of fill.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
So I'm going to OK, but discuss about.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
She would like to thank you for your attention and if you're quick then we'll figure for me to answer. I would also like Michelle Gazakh's come to the podium to help answer and I want to personally thank him for make this tutorials in afternoon possible. Although his men behind but I know that he's a great guy with a lot of experience so. Please call my wife. Again, and what I would like to ask becausw, we would also like to have such an answer and ideally still get it. How can we get? In touch, not just in this cool, but how some companies from Slovenia and abroad can get in touch with such software that you are of course developing for many years. This is a question for an ERA and I must ask another question from Surface or a comment. AVP is a. Called that received this year. Price from praise as the most innovative HPC product on industrial seminars. So Additionally also this goes for the AVP that is developed at surf racks. How companies can collaborate and uncover how can they collaborate with you to get this advance software in their research or maybe properly interested in working for this in Slovenia? We have quite some turbomachinery companies, aeronautics companies for representatives here. Our work we're closely watching your presentation, and probably they would like to ask this question, but I've asked them as organizer of this session, so please. Is the software you have to contact. Official. Authorities, of course I think that we have something like a commercial division. Some offer some, so this for research. Of course we are at University, but as I said, most people are here not just looking for software but for collaboration. So probably you cannot just get the code and start working with this. You need a lot of experience. You need to be in touch with. The whole person experience a guys working daily on this to get some kind of support. Because most of us are working with open source codes like open form and like that and without any instructions you cannot get into details of all the tricks that are of course in every code and when we are also developing our code we know what we can do. And what we should not do, and this is mostly for non commercial codes like you are using this for your work daily. Can you comment this? Just for example we say PvP. We organizing some training exercise so that means for example to get the code here you have just to contact cheering pencil which is the leader of the SEAL team. And it's only if the use of heavy is only for research programs you should. Normally get the required quantity, then about two times a year we organizing some one week training about AVP directly at Starbucks, so you you can just check on our website there. So then it's meant to promote that and just ask him. OK, there is a training team as fast, you just send an email saying OK I want to attend the next IDP training at surprise and if there are still some available places. Just come in Toulouse, France. OK, it's a beautiful part of friends too so I can get some tourist to sell already ready. It's something which we did since a long time now and there are plenty of young scientists and engineers that came at surf racks and that still come to train on AVP and get the best of the card and then simply run the code when they go back to their Research Center so. I guess there are basically merged with the sensing at an area director. Some training on Amazon. Unfortunately, our session is in parallel to one PhD defense in CFD just right this moment. So many people from CFD lab were obliged, obliged to went there to get there, and we have Professor Tom Yama and other even Professor Susa that was in the committee. For this cool that initially invited you as presenter is not present. Unfortunately, with that. But I would like to thank you again for this presentation, because it is an honor to have such people coming to preschool. Of course, I believe this is also something that your were interesting to spread the word to show it is not. The conference, but the school and we know that in such schools you are showing stuff of low level at the trainings. But what we saw is something that somebody also for research is interested to see what is possible and that such schools give us. So thanks again, I will not pull out again.
