However, those conventional relational classification models only focusing on single label classification. So for example, in the like bibliographic work, the document have more than. So and also the connections between instance in this multi label network, usually driven by various causal reasons, so authors are seeking to collaborate with other coauthors for different kind of projects, so the classification problem in this scenario is much more complex. The ages are clustered into 10 different groups and each of which is showing in a different color. So our proposed method consists of the following steps. So firstly we initially the class reference vector which is defined based on the weighted sum of the node social features in that class. And then we calculate the nodes class propagation probability based on the node social features and the class reference features. And the first one is class propagation probability. And the last one is class probability of its neighbors. It's richly and during each iteration we update the. Both the class reference vector as well as the notes as well as the nodes class propagation probability based on the labels of both both the training instance and the testing instance in and in the current iteration and the prediction stops when when all the labels in the network stable or the maximum amount of iterations is reached. So here I showing our result of our SCR method on synthetic multi label network with 1000 node and 30 two different classes. Other nodes with multiple labels and our method is richly predicted. We select 15 represented conference in six research area, ranging from database data mining to computer vision and machine learning. So the size of social features base is set to be. Our class propagation probability is calculated using generalized histogram intersection kernel and this gives us the best performance. The we also adopted the relaxation labeling. Instead of using the traditional cross validation methods, we use the network cross validation method to reduce the overlap between the test samples. Feature similarity and by several experiment on several real world datasets. So our open source implementation of SCI is available at Google Code Repository. That is a note with similar labels are more likely to be connected. An relational learning models enhance the trackability of computing the joint probability of the data by making the 1st order Markov assumption. Our paper is we introduce a new multi label iterative relational label classifier to solve the node classification problem. Our proposed model can improve the classification performance on several Real World Collaborative network. So here I give a training graph. And we are predicts the labels of the target nodes based on the class of its neighbors who have the maximum maximum amount of votes. Overlapping nodes, that is nodes with multiple labels, so actually functionally. So the connection in human networks, mainly application driven and the links Internet internetwork, possess a strong connection between the nodes class. So the link in formation here can help us solving node classification problem so. But however, since the age class information is not always available in most of the data set unsupervised clustering methods can be adopted here. So in our paper we use the scalable Age Clustering method proposed by time and others in 2009 so. Firstly, we we each age is represented in a feature based format where the age where the features are represented by the node index. And then we use K means clustering on the edges features and finally our social features are constructed based on the age cluster IDs.