I'm here to talk about complexity theoretic, lower bounds forms, past principle, component detection. Component detection while the model is quite simple, we have N random vectors in dimension D that are independent standard Gaussian and they had an unknown covariance. Otherwise, if there is a sparse principal component, then there exists a sparse vector V with just a little bit more violence, one plus Theta. So there is a need for a complexity theoretic lower bound that would be similar to the information theoretic lower bound here, and we tell us, know, know your Fairchild. So GM 1/2 is the distribution of graph with N vertices where each edge is randomly connected or not with probability 1/2 independent. Native distribution it's the plenty click distribution, so we take a graph from GM 1/2 and we put in it a clique of size camper. And of the adjacency matrix has a sparse signal structure. And there are a lot of polynomial time methods for detection or estimation of the order square root of M, and so there are strong reasons to believe impossibility for polynomial time methods under that under that range. Little demo came over today. It's just the synthetic nature of the class P. And so we have this problem now. The distance between those two is Keppra, and we want to create a randomized. Well, we call it the bottom left function because we take the bottom left corner of the adjacency matrix. And so we have when we take, when we take another training graphs and vectors that are independent that belong that have a distribution that belongs to the 0 and under the alternative, we're going to be in D1K of Alpha. Third Alpha would contradict the hypothesis on the planted Cleek, and so SDP MVP methods like that optimal among polynomial time efforts you can significantly improve the rate that we have. There's a complexity theoretic rate under which no polynomial time detection works, so the take home message is that there is a gap of square root K for this problem, at least for methods in polynomial time, so. A simple a simple conclusion now, so in this work we what we did was a theoretical formulation of computational lower bounds. So now there are a few open questions are left. On for any testing that we're going to try, so this is very classical and statistics is the minimax setting, so we're going to say that rate fit a star is the optimal rate of detection, when basically it's possible to detect above and impossible to detect for failure, smaller up to up to constant. So this is the very classical statistical statistical setting. It's done by human computer machine might not be, might not achieve the optimal rate, and we're going to be interested at the sets that we can, you know, in practice do so we're going to. At the rate of detection over the Class T, so the class he is going to be a class of tests, and we're going to. Any restriction on testing methods when we're looking at the purely statistical point of view, it's well known there's a lot of work on that, whether for estimation or for detection. The more data points that you have, the smaller this morning preservation needs to be so that you can detect it. It's not, you know, because the test side is, space is based on the eigenvalue statistic with some spicy and it's NP hard to compute, so this isn't actually the picture, and this isn't actually what happens in practice. So what happens in polynomial time? What's going on under the optimal rate?