I'll just go briefly through the whole digital media. About the TV and radio is a content creation, especially on the social elements. How they makes social elements, web and TV as two different platforms with many players involved in order to provide a single product. Just because this is the the Bulgarian understanding of data sharing is just in the old fairy tale where actually you would like to provide the other party with the data. You can't read it, but this is the RSS emission of the biggest portal in Bulgaria. Semantic repository citizen journalism, which is publishing video publishing sharing. Book, environment and digital signage solutions. And Furthermore, so over the course of the last year, we established the very easy transfer of knowledge environment. And this has provided us with the Streamlight getting starting in this type of projects, collaborative projects, and we've done some. It will open up huge opportunities for us. These are the mobile operators, the TV and radio broadcast stations, and the Internet based services. A big potential to access new markets and niche sharing clients. We have something like 14 portals with 600 ecommerce sites with kind of modest revenues and then. We have 14 CPA platforms, which means the 14 web portals in the 14 CPA platforms speak that the portals have actually every of the portals have their own CPA platform which is not a very good case of collaboration. The cost of 1000 people viewing your website or your advertising whatever. I mean people, I spoke with Alexander before people didn't have telephone, but they just got right right away. Resource inside, I mean this is also, I think that that's why I don't see a lot of collaboration and interoperability potential in this part of the digital media, Bulgarian TV and radio Internet feeds. We shall abandon the old growth padding discounts for the big players if there is a problem, yes. About missing collaborative culture, is it? Clients to expand your client base, so on and so forth, but you have to deal with someone big and in the case of Web there are the big portals who.