[0.0s - 29.0s]
So I'm here to present you briefly the case of the Bulgarian digital media, which I think in. In in the part of Internet services is actually valid for all the rest of Europe, United States or the rest of the world that is. That is up to the tech agenda so.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I'll just go briefly through the whole digital media. I will briefly talk about the disruptions that are creating the challenges and that actually from that extract extrapolate the needs that we're going to address within the coin. EU. Coin project. OK.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, and so. The three big players in the Bulgarian digital industry. These are the mobile operators, the TV and radio broadcast stations, and the Internet based services. It's.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
I'm going to just flip through mobile and radio because it's more or less trivial and focus more on the web services. But the mobile operating industry is kind of half a billion. Eurobic there are three operators and one government run Tetra. Terrestrial mobile operator. Nothing special to mention about that except that the interconnection charges are very high, which means costs cost of service.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
This is quite substantial. Television radio it's. Following the trend of opening new and new TV stations. Every year, Bulgaria is actually keeping in touch with this, although the money that go into the television industry through the advertising budgets shrinking from year to year and they're actually being allocated budgets are being allocated towards. To its web. So. Nothing big about 300 million in advertising revenues for 2009 and about 4:50 mil.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And in radio. So. The web, the web environment is also exploding over the next five years. We have something like 14 portals with 600 ecommerce sites with kind of modest revenues and then. We have 14 CPA platforms, which means the 14 web portals in the 14 CPA platforms speak that the portals have actually every of the portals have their own CPA platform which is not a very good case of collaboration. Interoperability at all. So, so they're very protective, they're closed. Like even big players in our industry, Yahoo. For example just about to open up. And this the portal thinking is quite heavy. But I will show you later a good example how this is changing. So we have 17 online at agencies at agencies who actually come from the classic agencies with something like Online department's, that's a. A player that we would like to engage for the and to help the immigration from classic advertising business towards online advertising business. And we have every of these online agencies has its CPA CPM platform which is also trivial. Speaks not for a good case of a collaboration. For the public cost per action, these are metrics within their own online marketing environment. This is actually the the way online advertising which is the main source of revenues for the web services. Apart from the fees that are charged directly, this is the metrics that actually determined the way the clients pay to service providers cost per action and cost per mile, which means. The cost of 1000 people viewing your website or your advertising whatever. So to mention, is that by coming late with the with the whole technology stuff? Bulgaria is kind of is being equipped very quickly with a broadband Internet from scratch. I mean people, I spoke with Alexander before people didn't have telephone, but they just got right right away. the Internet connection, which is a broadband Internet connection which is good and digital divide is huge between the city and the small city and village and between the younger. And the older generation, I mean, huge. This is something that. The whole society has to address too because we literally. Left people behind people feel disadvantaged in their access to services in their access to information, especially right now with the government. You can. I'm not queuing up for years and I still can see a lot of queues in front of. Government and municipality agencies. Doing this or that. Not to speak about payments, stuff like.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So. The beginning is the Bulgarian digital industry is quite reactive. I mean. We didn't come up to the idea of collaboration helping each other, making partnerships because we thought we realized this is the way to go. No, we being forced by external factors and mainly driven by fear to do to do so. That's one of the.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Thinks that we have to consider and those factors that came as disruption from the external environment for the mobile operators were the the Opal mobile Internet devices. Especially the Android operating system and the bright, the spreading Wi-Fi coverage. I mean this really simple Skype provided such a huge competition. And it was such a disruption for the mobile operators that they started to eventually think of new models and eventually expanding their capabilities. How probably is not the best way as they react because they don't open their platforms in order to accommodate new services, they just expand their own internals. Try to expand their internal capability. What is actually happening? They have something just the next street as a solution. Which they can. Take it as it is, but no, they spend 12 months in order to develop an internal. Resource inside, I mean this is also, I think that that's why I don't see a lot of collaboration and interoperability potential in this part of the digital media, Bulgarian TV and radio Internet feeds. Alot of content is being streamed through through Internet and digital trace. Trea terrestrial television is also a way to make television broadcast more interactive. It's appending lounge will which will provide. Potentially a field where small players with unique technology could tap onto the supply chain. And provide additional service in a collaborative manner with the big players and web. The web portals are actually the big threat of the global players of Facebook has observed. Small advertising budgets. No one can stop it. CPM and CPC cost per click is in decline in sharp decline. Just because those models actually emulate the classic advertising which lacks a good metrics which lacks a good management capability. So they have been replaced by knew most probably they're not very applicable to the social media, that's why. Those elements have led to disruptions and.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The disruptions actually provided challenges and at some point. The players in the digital integrated digital media industry realize that they have to, probably Unite forces in order to resist the external threats, but. We realized very quickly. I've used illustrations from Gustav Dora I think just to visualize some things. That we are severely missing collaborative culture. We still think that if we let someone. Within our company to see our technology to see where we are innovating and where the direction where we're thinking, we expose us too much. We weaken ourselves and this. It takes time to to overcome. We fear to expose everything what we have. Created, we always think that in our industry is very hard to put in something we all cook with the same water. That's one thing for sure. That's why surgery spoke about. Up the absolute nonsense of requiring money for something just because once you start requiring money the next day, you have a competitor who is offering this for free, and so only the rate of innovation. Once you gain a leadership and maintaining this leadership. Can solidify your position. But we pretty quickly realized that you cannot innovate till oblivion. At some point you need. Another parts, complemented to your own technology. In order to always keep up. And this shall be also realized, that we shall not fear of exposing ourselves to others. And topping our technology to other technology in order to provide additional value that no ones has. We shall abandon the old growth padding discounts for the big players if there is a problem, yes. About missing collaborative culture, is it? Historical problem, or is it? I will. I wouldn't explain everything with blaming the commies, but probably not just talking about. Yeah bro, that was a kid. I was a kid when they passed away, but probably probably even the younger generation. Even the younger generation. They somehow it's not because it's not present in the classic industries. You can't, you don't see it in manufacturing, you don't see it in in trade. You don't see it anyway. Everyone tries to. It's something like behavior by. Everyone wants to be a monopolist. That's interesting. Why just because people don't have this culture of getting together, but also it's it's a phenomenon counting for probably everyone. Sure, sure sure. Right or left side of the deep, then you say. Concerning the mantle agree agree. If you look behind. You and the past. Our human being has such sure. Compensation because during. Centralized economy all in the agriculture industry, everything. They have been forced yes, and now they compensate. OK, they compensate. They need to be visible to have their initiative entrepreneurship and that's what I mean is not blaming. Oh I have a lot of a long list of positive. Social protection. From that time I've just finished. Kate, it's cover. I said I adjusted the discussion during the lunch time with participants from from from from Taiwan, and then I recognized, for example. There are also some part of problems if cooperation because it in as far as I know, yeah, from the far Eastern culture it is very important that you if you discuss with style is people and then the participants to be very open and I'm not. To drain and not to lose your face, yeah so it's a different problem. Let's say I feel different cultural problem, yeah? And if you say OK, maybe it's supposed commitment of how you would call it. Yeah, so then it might be. It might be a problem which is existing since 100 years or 50 years or something like this and which would be over could be overcome during the next 2030 years. Yeah, in Far East it would be different. Because there is a really internal mentality, a few behavior. So for example, if you wait for 20 years, so this problem might disappear. Probably just finished. A very nice study by Leona Field of. It's a German with with. Russian regions, called 6 contractive, which is we're right now. In the sixth contract, if is the second stage of the Information Society, and he's doing a study about how information technology changes changes from the infrastructural site into the more front end, which means content flow information streams. This grid interconnections between people. The breaking of the hierarchical structure of societies and stuff. And he's also pointing out that the educational system is not actually preparing people for collaborative environments, absolutely missing the readiness to right now everyone is self centric. You want to think up of something and be the King of the world. And this probably should change into. Trying to embrace to plug your intelligence with the intelligence of the others and as a result come up with something that's actually in theory of the sum up of your own intelligence is, let's put it that way, but it's still a way to go. I realize it, but still. As in in in the social aspect of development of our society, as in the technological aspect, we're a bit behind. We're catching up. I don't know how long it will take, but we're still a little bit behind, that's why. You shall know that collaboration is not that far as an idea developed within the at least Bulgaria. I don't know how is Russia or Ukraine or Turkey, but it will in Bulgaria is not that much developed and even if we think that we have to cope with something, abandoning the old growth padding which is. Growing up of our company internally is something that we shall overcome even if we think that OK, Now we're going to collaborate with someone. The missing showcases the unknown integration and interpretability costs are kinda kind of deal stopper. I've experienced this over the course of the last two three years, but still at the end I will end up with a very good example of how this still going into the right direction, not to speak about the decision-making trouble. Is he all the? All the hardships of exchanging information on a management level between two or three partners. 2 already too much, not speak about 3 big consortia's. I mean really we got to situations where we cannot move forward because. We lack the infrastructure to exchange information in order to make decisions and then to verify decisions, and then the controller that the execution of on the road to execute the plan. I mean, all these things are adding to the problem, but again. We start to have the good the 1st.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Good cases. How the thinking that in our industry in Bulgaria is that if we speak about collaboration, it's always that several small partners small players have to deal with someone big who is holding the critical resource. If it's a mobile operator, he holds the whole back end all the infrastructure. If it's a television again, older content, you can tap additional services in order to. To collaborate to provide additional value to. Clients to expand your client base, so on and so forth, but you have to deal with someone big and in the case of Web there are the big portals who. Hold the content and the data isn't isn't our industry the beginning of everything?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So what are the opportunities opportunities for mobile operators just briefly with mobile advertising the virtual networks, the network sharing, big play? A big field where actually collaboration and interoperability can play on in the mobile marketing.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
About the TV and radio is a content creation, especially on the social elements. We see projects like current.com in the US. How they makes social elements, web and TV as two different platforms with many players involved in order to provide a single product. Interactivity, but it comes with a terrestrial television performance measurement. Big field. I mean right now the one of the biggest problems of television is that they claim that they achieve such a result and they cannot actually maintain this with real hard facts. And not to talk about real time reporting, which is very important right now, everything. Is. They shall be away for someone, for some advertiser to pluck advertising, advertising spots and put them into different channels. Almost real time. Just because there is a huge migration of viewership across the channels with a huge choice and right now, it's impossible you think that in the last three months in the next three months this channel is going to be yours. You start with it. After 10 days you see that it's it's a complete misery, but you cannot change cannot change. These are and I I know that in Bulgaria there are several. At least half a dozen of companies that have very good solutions. They just don't. Can top their solutions on top of the of the big television networks. So alternative advertising which is a mix of promotion and advertising and paper view in paper listing services are also appealed.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Aberration so for us and what actually our coin project is going to be is to crack the data psilos this is huge field. While not only Bulgaria also worldwide is a huge demand for new solutions and those solutions usually. Come as a compilation between services developed by different players. I'm just going to. I love flipcharts I come from a company that has developed a very innovative real time data distribution platform. We're going to take this. And we're going to use just as a platform in order to. Tap on top. Additional services that come from different companies. In our living lap and with with a simple goal to provide an interesting time interest centric data. Distribution. From where data is being published, created to where it's being consumed, bid a consumer or a business, there is the whole chain of events of technologies that she'll provide additional value so that everyone can consume content. Doesn't matter where it originates, doesn't matter where it comes from, doesn't matter where what format it is. In real time. It shall be. Credible it shall be interesting or valuable an in this way will solve one of the biggest problem in the current web environment also globally, which is information overload. Just because people get too much content to process manually in order to get to the things that really matter to them. This counts also for businesses. We're going to place. Our case in a very in a in a certain triangle, we're going to. Take. We're going to take. A portal that has a lot of data. And we're going to. Equipped with without technology, put additional players on top that provides all the utilities that could be. That could serve as a freemium part of the premium part of the free model as data visualization, bringing meaning, which is semantics. Which is also called image verification. And deliver it to the consumer in the same time we're going to pluck advertising agencies just because right now on the distribution chain under distributed change of data, you have additional campaigns advertising campaigns going on, but the advertisers. Luck severely. The right partners. In order to execute, especially within the social media environment. So we're going to plug. Advertising agencies is a collaborative partners. In order to help advertisers get to the right audience, while the right audience uses the service anyway, just because of the benefits it gets in addition. We're going to. To use the next marketing platform, which is the content stream. Anne. Create out of the content stream a collaborative platform on itself. Just because the social media. Is providing us with the unique opportunity to associate people in order on the in the process of content distillation, said say so on content curation. All these services that I've listed here, all these opportunities that I've listed here can be put into into a very. Fluent. Chain of technology and events. And within a second. Someone can receive just the right data from the source, doesn't matter where it is. Is it the source? Is the social network or doesn't matter and in the same time several players in between would have their input. Are along there. The whole distribution chain, so this is basically what would like to to make and this technology. Is very valuable in in in a, in this, in this aspect right now between. Between the marketing Department of any. Given company. And the web environment. There is a huge gap huge gap that shall be breached. Somehow. We will take our technology and put it here. And what we have, we have a company that needs to. First, define streams or monitor feedback or manage communities. In in, in the in the current Web environment, communities are managed through content lobbying. Either you produce content or you somehow contribute with content that may maybe not your property, but you distribute it in order to. Engage people, engage communities, so we're going to take this and put it between the marketing Department of any given company and the social media and what we're going to achieve is the next. Ultimate. Marketing tool. So simple, but it's kind of. Multi layer. Just because there are a lot of technology, a lot of layers, a lot of players and.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
OK, we we have our challenges on our own. Just because this is the the Bulgarian understanding of data sharing is just in the old fairy tale where actually you would like to provide the other party with the data. But somehow you're reluctant to do it. I mean, it's a picture of of things and.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
You can't read it, but this is the RSS emission of the biggest portal in Bulgaria. We're having a very smart algorithm which takes several words and determines the language. That's very that's the first. Step in semantics. First you have to know what is the language in order to apply. Then the additional semantics in order to eventually understand what's written here and those guys. We have something like 99.9% successful ratio. If we have something like 7 to 9 words in some of those error size items, we don't have that many words. We don't know that this is Bulgarian, for example, and so. These are the hardships to overcome. In order to have a successful.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Successful case, but unfortunately. Within our living lap we have a big player in.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
In the field. And. Just to give you a glance of our members, the founding members have innovative companies that do. Nice things in in terms of data. Processing data semantics. Data distribution. Data publishing. And also we have. This is the big portal that we would like to.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
That we are going to use in our case, but the digital lab, the digital Space Living Lab was formed to to provide us. Surgeon has mentioned previously that it's a combination of companies. Academia users, user communities, everything in order to create a environment for very rapid development of digital technology and more importantly to. Develop this technology in a in a way where it's going to be very beneficial for the users, for the consumers and for the companies.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So. This is a very brief view over the. Solutions that. The members provide. As I told you. Real-time content streaming. Semantic repository citizen journalism, which is publishing video publishing sharing. Interactive. Book, environment and digital signage solutions. Social bookmarking. Actually all the holts hot stuff that's going on in the current web under one roof with a very good understanding of. At least. Different understanding for collaboration and interoperability. We all have our application programming interfaces, not like the stork in the Fox. We are ready to exchange data and we are ready to.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Go into constant exchange of data. And Furthermore, so over the course of the last year, we established the very easy transfer of knowledge environment. Right now we probably missed the right tools, but we have an informal. Transfer of knowledge. We had a series of workshops where everyone has stand in front of the other thing explained his story and then we kept a loop on our platform favorite where we actually exchanged all the news. Which means also business news. If someone acquires an you client. This part is sharing the client with the others and think of collaborative scenarios for potentially going into up sales. So on. And this has provided us with the Streamlight getting starting in this type of projects, collaborative projects, and we've done some. I'll show on the next slide, but what still has to be done? And I pretty much rely on the coin project to do that is to link the internal processes. That's very important, especially with some of the companies. There's something like they have to be linked to each other. It will open up huge opportunities for us. Cross linking with business partners. That's also very important. And Mitchell data exposure on an ongoing basis, not on a. Request basis as it is now. This has this has to be achieved.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
To have a good. Good project. For the last. 12 months we've done together several collaborative projects. And. Web. We are the first example actually in our industry for collaborative working. We were successful. With some of them, and we're not successful with the others with some other projects just because. We have to overcome all those drawbacks and setbacks that I've listed before. All the way. It was a suspicion that one is going to steal the technology of the other is going to steal the clients. Yeah, it's really true like that, but we grow up. We grown up with within making those projects together.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And. Right now we have a clear understanding that the benefits are. Way more flexible. We are hard to beat by the competition. We can access technology, even workforce of the others. For example, we have used the Chinese linguistic forces of Myomo. They have used our. Cloud technology. We have a. A big potential to access new markets and niche sharing clients. And we speed up our development process enormously. And we have extended our geographical reach just because some of the companies in clinic hours I'm just coming from the States opening up a business operation there. So some of our partners in the Living Lab we're going to benefit out of this and going to use our. Client base, so on and so forth.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So thank you. If some.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Ask questions, I'm here so. Search project. Which project do you think is more suitable to have a continuation in coin? Because we we. We must focus somewhere. OK, this is going to be the. The foundation of the others, because real time. Interest centric. Content distribution goes through. Semantics. Data unification centralization. So OK. On top of the foundation provided by this project. Could you provide this? Could you provide the specific description of that project for the kickoff meeting? Sure good.
