Suppose you have this set of images. We have seen how to compute principle angles when you're given the two subspaces. So that's how we go about defining a nice distance between two subspaces based on this angles. But this is not the only distance. And this has been used in a work by Yamaguchi and was called Mutual Subspace Method. You want to find direction, a discriminative direction in your original data space. So idea itself is sound, but the problem is in the implementation. So the first kernel is a projection kernel. Sorry, the space of D by the orthonormal projection matrices is a subset of Euclidean space. An natural inner product in that equation spaces trace of two matrices. Is the Berry has a very simple form and easy to evaluate? Ann, this is a example with another set of data with different object. Another extension, the final extension to the original idea. The nonlinear subspace in the original data set. Let me call our approach, which is to use kernel efficiency analysis with projection or even a question kernel as Grassmann discriminant analysis. The Yale Face database consists of 80 three different persons, nine different poses and 45 different illumination conditions. We're going to apply a PCA along the post direction. We're proposing a subspace based learning paradigm to exploit the data that has inherent linear structures in it. And this model has been used for for example, in dynamic textures and modeling human actions. But the problem is this is not a unique representation of a sequence especially. In this setting you assume your data consists of linear subspaces, which are all familiar. The difference between the usual settings data is not consisting of. But we want to do with this approach is that you want to model the known variability as a variability within each subspace you want to absorb. So the most appropriate framework for subspace based learning is the grassman manifold. The grassman manifold, denoted by G small income capital D is by definition that set of all small M dimensional linear subspaces of capital D dimensional vector space. If you have. Applications of Grassmann manifold has been, you know, can be found in signal processing control theory optimization, computer vision and so on. Simply speaking on an element, you can represent an element of a Grassmann manifold with an orthonormal matrix.