Pointing out the challenges that they think this is this would advance and should they attacked them and try to solve it because I feel the same domain adaptation of transfer learning is one of those areas which are becoming more and more important in real life contracting since we saw so clearly in grown up dogs. I think that the main point that I want to introduce is that in order to do an domain adaptation or transfer learning, we must have measures of the relatedness. We cannot do too well and then we talk about some open questions. Things are both of the same labels. First of all, the two distributions have the same labeling the covariate shift assumption, and on top of it, we're also going to require that the two unlabeled distributions are indistinguishable. You never write my new distance depends on the classification. How well can initial segments separate between dissolution addition? I mean, if I take in this segment up to here, then the blue distributions will have slightly more weight in their yellow. I'm trying to find one fix typos in the class. So the question is, I'll say there's two types of similar with respect to age. And thanks on the data from. 2 tasks that targeting the source. What I want to estimate is the error of her properties on the target. The sound will be very low. So let us just make sure that we have the comparative suspension, so we both both tax label this point one label. It will make no error on the target distribution because it is on the road to the right, and here it will make that a small. Why not just train on the source and use it for the target and pray that it will work right? OK, so. Can we do better by being productive? And so the idea of imposing, fighting and the important thing it says, use the target unlabeled samples to reweigh the training samples and choose age that behaves nice with respect to this. The goal, I think, of the hearing here is to figure out when and how the men of the patient is going to succeed. Now notice that from the point of view of the learner, what does the learner see? So whatever idea not idea, wonderful again that only comes up. So what this is, it's not, the problem was not that the waiting was a better year. No domain in the patient is possible without assuming relatedness between that numbers in solution. So that's taking over Korea seems without point even point. The major remaining open question is OK. Can we seem so we can show that our bound is optimal after samples too. Maybe come up with different adaptive algorithms, but again, it's all depends on having a good. Useful relatedness note. If it doesn't work, try it doesn't work, then we can give you more data. Learning requires prior knowledge, I think is something that. For straightforward precipitation prediction tasks, we know that this prior knowledge takes the form of some inductive bias. The prior knowledge that we need is my knowledge. About the relationship between the shooter and the question is. The learner of the dementia patient problem has access to two sources, so it has access to labels. Each of these problems is a distribution over points with labels. Our task is to predict the labels of the points which are they labeled by there. The main question is how should we model there? Prior knowledge about their relatedness between the two problems and. Maybe the most obvious desired relatedness is to say that that's acquired this assumption. Zero is the same in both the domain distribution and targeting solution. Yeah, so we have a different distribution of the domain, but we cannot truly say that both of us are going to make the same markings of the labels given the same the same right? So we do have the covariate shift assumption. So the VHH in the class of subsets or cash to pay for something. That ain't. So let's I have some class of predictors that they want to use for my problem. I want to detect spam and say I'm trying to detect it with a linear classifier.