What I am going to talk about today is some work by my group on unsupervised learning for language. This is what unsupervised NLP should be like and could be like an I'm interested in building systems like the system on the right. That best explains the observed parses OK. One option, one of the easiest options, and what I'll talk through here is to use maximum likelihood estimation with them. Here it's a tree, but the brackets are known and so. In particular, we have lots of kinds of each of the parts of speech. I'm going to talk about inducing various kinds of linguistic structure that are not in the data. In the last will be translation. This is also the solutions I'm going to sketch are going to involve kind of very careful and often iterative choice of what to model, and sometimes even more importantly, what not to model. We're going to 1st talk about the task of unsupervised grammar refinement. OK, so here's some final results of this split merge stuff. In an unsupervised fashion, and to do this with grammars, you get kind of very, very good and interpretable grammar splits. I suspect there's a lot of applications beyond parsing and the other linguistic cases we've looked at, so I encourage you to think about it. The Ware group whose headquarters is in the US is a large specialized Corporation. Hurricane Emily held Tord Mexico's Caribbean coast on Sunday, packing 135 mile per hour winds and torrential rain. In particular, if you want to get a grammar and you would like to be parsing these structures well, you might look at them and say those look awful lot like context free grammars to me. It turns out that doesn't work very well. OK, so but you could take this. We need some kind of gate to switch between them, and this will be the mention type. And so, for example, it will be a list of the entities that have been evoked and their activations, whatever that means. So this bucket ask which kind of tells you that entity, how active is it in the discourse here? Just because your parser doesn't work very well, and one of the reasons is that the kind of the trees in the data that have symbols like noun phrase make overly strong conditional independence assertions when kind of viewed as probabilistic objects. There's global entity proportions, beta, beta, not. So this brings us to the task of grammar refinement. So this is what's called head lexicalization, where you go along, annotating all of your nodes with actual words. There's a lot left to do, so I don't want to give the impression that kind of we're ready to kind of pipe data at the system and suddenly all of language will be learned.