Putting things together for training and systems medicine and this comes from pharmacokinetics pharmacodynamics on one side. So this is towards truly individualized systems medicine, and we're truly individualized. And deliver truly personalized medicine. And you come to a concept that is called the control coefficient of flux control coefficient. So that's this J for flux, the percentage change in flux. If you have a 1% change in transcription factor or enzyme activity. The change in flux divided by reflects itself. Must be this one, because this actually delivers the ATP, so that must be the rate limiting step. This biology is too complicated. Personalized medicine systems medicine in Como in September. You want to use the model to discover something. Why do we have not one Uncle Gene but many uncle genes WHI are particularly the three in the list of Uncle genes? So the idea is not to model here, but use a model to discover system principles, maybe even to discover where you should target the drug. The second introduction is that we're talking about the implications of networks for disease, and we're looking at the implications for networking itself. To you it's known now. It does this in response to a signal that comes from the outside that binds to receptor and then the cell responds. And then the next question was can we now simulate what the effect on of the kinase activities is on the phosphorylation of factor #3? So then you only look you set up the system such that you only look at Factor 3 and you change the. For the phosphorylation of the third project, I would have expected that the amplitude would go down. But if you look at inhibit the first kinase, that's this case, and this is inhibiting the second kind of. Again, my expectations would have been that the amplitude would go down. If you wish then I would again have expected yes, the amplitude to go down, but the thing to be delayed and it is not delayed. So apparently if you kinases do control the amplitude but not the time it takes for the peak. That's what you call a disease. And you know that this is wrong, because if this were true. Then an Organism with 100 functions should have 100 genes and I happen to have 27,000 jeans and you also we also have 27,000 jeans. Also, I couldn't have 27,000 disease, so that's not true here. Out that if you do this for the amplitude that the control coefficient of this second kindness, that's this example is 1. What would your expectation have been? So how can this be so? How can that be done? And we said somehow it is hard to understand, but there's some of the control of the rate limiting Ness must be zero. Then sum of numbers must be 0. So yeah, completely natural. That if you activate the phosphatases that the amplitude goes down negative control. It's what the literature tells us. And the kinases are pretty irrelevant. You might think it might be true that this is the rate limiting step of the pathway. Is this always the rate limit except maybe the first one is always the right limiting step and therefore I could still be wrong that a single gene would be causing this this disease and that's where we get to systems, medicine, systems, biology. You see, there's no flux possible if you delete this no function. But that would be true for all G. So the question whether this Dean is limiting or that gene is limiting cannot be addressed by knocking it out, but it can be addressed asking whether this is limiting by looking at the heterozygotes, for instance, going to 50% gene dosage or by inhibiting it and then asking, OK, do we have an effect on function? Say gene dosage or enzyme amount.