[0.0s - 29.0s]
And the second speaker in this workshop where we're clearly. Putting things together for training and systems medicine and this comes from pharmacokinetics pharmacodynamics on one side. You see some chronobiology happening. You see some various different modeling methodology's agent based modeling and you'll also see some cancer related modeling of signal transduction and that's my part. Emphasis is really there on the on how one can actually do this oneself. But that is obviously depends on whether you like to do this or not. So it's a hands-on idea, and then we have to do our prayers that the hands-on methodology works, which was already pronounced. That this depends on local environments that we have not do not quite have under control, but we'll see. I. So this is towards truly individualized systems medicine, and we're truly individualized. This is medicine. I'd like to provoke discussions if necessary. I mean something different from personalized medicine or something more extreme. Personalized medicine you could say. Well, it's a doctor coming after the patient going and coming into the doctor's office and. The patient is 17 years of age in between 17 and 19 and this person gets a treatment that is 4 persons in between 15 and 20. So let's cohort based but very very well many, many different cohorts. I looked at so it is almost it's personalized. You would recognize it's personalized. With genomics we get genome sequences and then of course we realize that every person is different. No exception except identical Twins. So you could go as far as trying to put that in the difference between individuals from the genome. And then it becomes individualized, so it's an extreme case of being personalized. It will be individualized. This is not yet in place. Sometimes it is and it will become in place. And of course, if you do that, you can also become more individualized on the other aspects. If you then ask whether they have the person has eaten German sausages and spinach and drink drunk white wine and has run 101 hundred meters yesterday evening, your resolution also goes to the individual level because very few people will have done that together with a specific disease. So in that sense, even the personalized medicine, which is as you have it now may will, may or will in the future develop into individualized medicine. If if that can be done so at this point of the perspective, it's a future look monthly to prepare for that. But you could also see where you now can prepare for that, but you use it in in the personalized medicine, as it is done now.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And I'd like to introduce that concept a bit towards personalized medicine, and for that reason I have a movie now I don't know what you will have to see. Our movie director is making a different movie at the same time, so that may be challenging, but we'll we'll see. We are all unique and incredibly complex when it comes to our human biology. The number of molecules that make up our human bodies is gigantic, and the ways in which they all interact is mind boggling. But science has become very good at measuring huge amounts of biological data like our personal DNA sequenced our proteins and metabolites. If we could make all this data useful, we would be able to provide much better healthcare. Making healthcare and medicine more successful, more reliable, faster and less expensive is one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century. To make sense of all our biological data healthcare needs revolutionary new information and communication technologies. And deliver truly personalized medicine. So how do we get there? By making computer models of our biological data, we can make detailed health checks or simulate medical treatment before applying it. Computer simulations already help us everywhere, whether models tell us tomorrow's weather and we test airplanes in the computer before we build them, so why not use simulations in medical care? Well, the human body is more complex than the weather or airplanes, but computers keep improving. Health simulations can be made if we measure biological data and make mathematical models that run on smart and powerful ICT. So what are these mathematical models? Trillions of molecules make up ourselves and billions of cells make tissues and organs, making a huge network that is our body. So when we're ill, our network has some problem. If doctors could analyze our network and the computer, they could simulate. Which treatment would work best? We could all own a virtual patient model to help us throughout our lives and both curing and preventing disease. Our personal health models will allow us to make breakthroughs in treating complex diseases. Healthcare will become more effective and less expensive. Annual high tech industrial and economic opportunities will emerge, creating a stronger and healthier society or we will lead the way in modernizing medicine. OK, so that is a movie that explains this individualized medicine, which you will be happy to endure later. Then I'm sure I apologize.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So this and after that I had this this item here which means we now have a one hour tutorial and there will be a much longer tutorial about. Personalized medicine systems medicine in Como in September. So if you have people you know people interested in this or yourself interested in this, by all means feel welcome to come there. Damiana will also teach there again and various other people like Jonathan Carr, Mateo Bybee, recently bowling.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
OK, now that was the first interaction. The second introduction is that we're talking about the implications of networks for disease, and we're looking at the implications for networking itself. So how important is networking for disease? And that is a major aspect of systems medicine, because in the past the way genomics has interacted with medicine has been through and emphasize on single genes rather than on the networking of jeans. And the networks come with certain properties and it will be useful. It may be useful to learn about those properties and to try them out in models that are relevant for system medicine. And one of these cases is in oncology and cancer and one pathway one can use to illustrate this is to map kinase pathway map kinase pathway may be known to you. To whom is the map kinase pathway known? Right, I would expect that. To whom is, isn't it known? To you it's known now. So the map kinase pathway has to do with signal transduction that is, a familiar familiar thing for you. Basically, cells get signals from the outside cells get protein signals, sometimes to grow or to differentiate to become another cell type. And in cancer that's very important. That decision normally your cell becomes either stays itself its own cell type of liver cells, states, liver cell or a non differentiated liver cell. Differentiates to become a liver cell as internal changes. It does this in response to a signal that comes from the outside that binds to receptor and then the cell responds. Also be that the cell doesn't differentiate, doesn't say itself doesn't differentiate into another cell, but starts dividing and then it can become a tumor cell. And that's why this is relevant. EGF is a word that stands for epidermal growth factor. That obviously means it is a growth factor for the skin that is secreted by cells there and that stimulates other cells to divide. So if you have a wound, there's a bit of skin lacking. Then this factor is secreted and it stimulates cells five of us to grow. And then to heal this, heal the wounds history so that's irrelevant an it's one of the pathways that occurs of course in sit in the cell. And you see, you see a map of the cell which was made by Hanahan and Weinberg in 2000. In the context of cancer. It's one map of the cells, so I am very active in another type of map of the cells. That's the metabolic map. So there's also a metabolic map of human cells, and that is a now a complete map since 2 years that's complete. Metabolism is chemistry, SO1, molecule being converted to another molecule, being converted to another molecule. That's one part of life conversion of 1 molecule to another molecule and the other part of life is regulating that by signals. By extracellular growth factors, telling the cell. Now you have to become a liver cell and therefore now your chemistry has to change all the molecules you're converting has to change and that is signal transduction regulation, signal transduction and that is this map. That map is not complete. This map is not complete. But it may become complete, but it's already very sizable. As you can see, and somewhere in here is the map kinase pathway. So that is actually here where you would have a growth factor. It's hard to see, so that's that. That's why I pointed out this is a growth factor like this EGF epidermal growth factor that binds to receptor and goes to other proteins group and source to Russ. And then this is the map kinase pathway that then phosphorylates at the end. A another protein here or a set of proteins that bind to the DNA and activate gene expression and then you get a whole change of the cell type so that the map kinase pathway is is an important pathway. Now if you it's hard for you to see, but it's quite significantly in this pathway that here there's an arrow running from the growth factor to the receptor tyrosine kinase. Do these factors to Russ and as an error from Russ too rough and a rough to make. And from Mac to map KM2 map KK. And and I'll be emphasizing that because there's something wrong with that arrow. That arrow is wrong. It is one of the issues I'd like to point out an you can show that this is wrong by using a model. Of these pathways are mathematical model, so that's the context we are in. We have briefly so we have models now in the previous talk where you can compute. How you drug redistributes? So that's a very concrete question here you ask about understanding principles principles that may explain why tumors developer where they don't develop May explains, may explain why you have only one, why you do not only have one Uncle Gene, but many oncogenes, and may explain why there's various types of Uncle genes. Uncle Gene said tumor suppressor genes, for instance. OK.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Now. This. Comes from the perspective that if you look at life Sciences and they look at the fact that we can seek and sequence entire genomes, you would expect that if we can do all that, we should be able to deal with disease very well. Cancer, obesity, diabetes? Why can't we cure these diseases? And I think that's partly because we did something wrong. Collectively we thought about these diseases in the wrong way. And this is maybe the wrong way of thinking about it. We still have complexity here where we look at many genes, so we just look at 4 genes here, but this would be 27,000. Yeah. And it could be quite a number of functions is an example of four, and there is. Quite a few nutrients. Thank you. Eat and this could be. These are many more than four of course also, so don't look at the four. But this means we have all lines like this where one nutrient that's important now leads to 1 gene and that one function. So there is indeed in this case is strict gene to function and gene to nutrition relationship. And if this were the case, if this were true, it would be easy 'cause you would know if one function doesn't work. That's what you call a disease. Then it's due to that gene. If that function doesn't work, it's due to this gene. It's not due to that in that right it's only due to that gene or due to lack of that nutrient. So this would be could be very complex. 27 thousand of these lines that would be very complex in that sense, or at least many multiple. But it would be simple in the sense that there is a function to Ginta nutrient relationship. I'm putting this up 'cause you might think this is silly. Tradition, because this is how we've been working alot last 30 years. We were hoping and it would have been great if this would have been true, that there was a function to gene, maybe to nutrient relationship. If you have a certain disease you can look for gene. And that Gene tells you what's wrong. You may not believe me, but this is true. This is history of science. You may not believe me. This is true, but the word uncle gene means this. This is what you Uncle Jim means. The word Uncle Gene comes historically from the fact that people in the 80s were searching for the gene that causes cancer. And now you, you know we are wise in cancer but still people are loud, presently looking for the gene that causes Alzheimer and the gene that causes Parkinson. And if you read the New York Times every now and then, you'll see that the gene for Parkinson disease has been discovered. So people like some people are still looking for that. And then of course, the gene hasn't been discovered because this is gene that correlates with Parkinson for 2% three percent. If you're lucky. But still, there's this focus. People are expecting that you'll find a single gene, single disease relationship. And it's wrong. And you know that this is wrong, because if this were true. Then an Organism with 100 functions should have 100 genes and I happen to have 27,000 jeans and you also we also have 27,000 jeans. I do a lot in my life, but I don't have 27,000 functions. It's nice. I don't have 27,000 diseases. Also, I couldn't have 27,000 disease, so that's not true here. You would have that every disease would be caused by a single gene or nutrition defect. So is cancer always caused by the same G? Is diabetes always caused by the same gene defect or by the same nutritional effect? Now we know that's not the case. Much more complicated than that. Much, much more complicated than cancer. Any cancer. This simplest cancer is caused by three GS3 mutations, retinoblastoma, three mutation, and even then you need more than that. But that's the simplest. So that isn't true, and also so it's not a single gene. And it's also not the same set of genes. So cancer, if it is caused by if it would be caused by 20 genes, it sometimes seems to be these 20 jeans. And another time it's three of those and 17 others, or is a complete different set of 20 genes that has caused the June and you get this from looking at the tumor, taking it from a patient, see consuming it, and seeing which genes have changed so so this is not true. It's not right.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So what is right? And it's more like this so. So basically if you look at these, what's not different and that's important. It's different in the sense that if you go from between the from the nutrient to function, there's not one gene in there, but there's multiple genes. So that's the pathway linear pathway though. But this already tells you now that if you like this function, there's something wrong with this function. You shouldn't be looking for one gene, which you should. You should recognize the fact that this could be 3 jeans an in a realistic example could be 27 if it's a linear path with 27 factors, so you should expect actually. G diseases are not monogenic, not Mona factorial is completely obvious if you look at it from this perspective, why is it obvious? Because systems biology has by now show that indeed this is how it looks if you go for a function, you see a function is achieved. Muscle contraction. Actin myosin actomyosin. These ATP needs a synthesis of actomyosin. The ATP is made in the mitochondria needs the mitochondria mitochondria need by related needs. Glycolysis we know that this is what it is. So we should expect that functions have my multigene. An if you look at this diagram, so here you need this function. This disease can be caused either by this scene or about that, or by that gene. If you look at this and you can also see that from the Maps if you inspect them then this function can be caused either by this gene deletions or a problem with this gene. Problem with this gene, and in this case it's a problem by this gene and that gene 'cause these can substitute for each other and the nutrient can lead to this, either through that route or through that route. So it's either or. Any of these, but this is either or. It makes it confusing. Yeah, OK, so if you have this type of thing then of course you see that an Organism with 100 functions should not have 100 genes with many more. So that looks like reality. Every disease need not always caused by a single gene nutrition effect. This disease can be caused by this, this or that. And it's not always the same combination that is the observation that's called multi factorial disease. But even here this may help a bit, because multifactorial disease has two aspects, and I thought it had one aspect. The fact that many factors are are causing a disease that was obvious maybe recently. But it doesn't have to be the same set of factors that makes it even more confusing.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, so so that is. That is why we need to look at these things in a different way. Now supposedly now looking at this it's also important if you have this pathway and you look at this then. I've said this function can be caused by a lack of discipline or lack of this scene, or lack of this gene. You might think it might be true that this is the rate limiting step of the pathway. Now this is the right limiting step and therefore really what you in practice, fine. There's only diseases that relate to this team. Give that like a function. So the question is, would that be would not be happening in reality? Is this always the rate limit except maybe the first one is always the right limiting step and therefore I could still be wrong that a single gene would be causing this this disease and that's where we get to systems, medicine, systems, biology. You need a bit of sophistication, some tools to deal with that, and these are conceptual tools and then either very refined experimental tools or computational tools. Modeling tools.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And that is what I'm going to talk about now. So one way, one way you could establish whether this gene, whether this is how can you establish whether this is the rate limiting step where you can say well, let me knockout that gene and see if there is an effect on function. And when you do that then of course, yes. You see, there's no flux possible if you delete this no function.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
But that would be true for all G. So the question whether this Dean is limiting or that gene is limiting cannot be addressed by knocking it out, but it can be addressed asking whether this is limiting by looking at the heterozygotes, for instance, going to 50% gene dosage or by inhibiting it and then asking, OK, do we have an effect on function? So you shouldn't really be looking at knockouts to determine this, but you should be looking at changes of activity. And that.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Is now to introduce a tool. Which is insistence. Medicine Systems medicine is not only making models. This is medicine is also tools. Computational theoretical mathematical type of tools. To make our understanding. Sharper to make ourselves more intelligent, intelligence means understanding things to help us to understand things. And this is one of these tools so that I'm going to introduce to you now. So this is a plot where you would have a function plotted as a function of. Say gene dosage or enzyme amount. There's something either a transcription factor and you have various concentrations. Here there's very little. It is very much an. Of course, when you have very little of this transcription factor, you get let little transcription, so you get less, less function, and then when you have a lot of the transcription factor, you will have a lot of function, and then you might have thought that this is a straight line, it just goes through the roof, but at some point in the pathway something else becomes limiting. So if you don't gave. Give more of this transcription factor. The function doesn't increase anymore because the problem is now somewhere else, so you would expect a curve like. This wouldn't have to look precisely like this, but it could look like this. And if you look look at it like this and then ask whether this transcription factor now is rate limiting is limiting the function. You would see that here it is. Here it changing the amount of that transcription factor has an effect, but here it is no longer. So that's where you want to have a measure of and that would could be the slope of this line. So if you look at the slope of this line, then here, because the slope of the line is very almost horizontal, it doesn't really matter what the activity is of this factor, so that is not the rate limiting step. But here here it would be. So you want to capture that how you capture that is by going through the slope actually.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And you come to a concept that is called the control coefficient of flux control coefficient. Which is really the slope of this line, and you can also translate it in a way and talking about it like this. Suppose I make a 1% change of this activity of this transcription factor, and I look at the percentage change in flux and I divide the two. So that's this J for flux, the percentage change in flux. If you have a 1% change in transcription factor or enzyme activity. That is. What we call the control coefficient. Now what does that mean? Well, that means if there is a 1% change in transcription factor activity and this leads to 1% change in function. Then this becomes 11 means full complete. So that means if you flux really the function really precisely follows that factor. If you change another case now, if you change that enzyme activity or the transcription factor and there's no change in function, then this is 0 / 1 becomes 0, so this coefficient is 0. So if you change the transcription factor, there's no effect on function. You gotta 0 control coefficient. So that means yeah true, because that enzyme apparently does not limit this flux, it doesn't control the flow. So those those two extremes are obvious. So either is completely. Controlling or it's not controlling at all. The strengths of this is. You can also use it now when you sort of hear that is sort of half way in between, then you could have if you now decrease this enzyme by or this transcription factor by 1%, you're affecting the flux could be only oh point 3% and this would be open 3 / 1 would be our .3, the control would not be none. It would not be complete one, but it would be 30% or another case 50 percent 10%. And and that in in physics is irrelevant in chemistry is irrelevant because it's either full control or no control. In biology, I'll show you it's absolutely dominant is very, very important because biology is very subtle. We have these pathways, multiple factors. You could think that the first step is is limiting. But of course there's evolution. So if the first step is limiting and their selection pressure, then your solution evolution would have selected for overexpression of that factor. 'cause there's not enough of it really, so it would be overexpressed. And when you express it, it would lose the rate limiting nature of its step. So Evolution has worked to a balancing away or factors that are completely limiting, and that has the effect. Of course, if you do that, then other factors in a pathway become limiting. Something has to be limited, so evolution has been a game where things that we're limiting have been overexpressed definite become less limiting than other things become limiting. Are being overexpressed so you end somewhere in a compromise situation. Usually I'll show them.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
OK, now this can be translated into also this term. This is really the relative change. The change in flux divided by reflects itself. It's the relative change, same as a percentage and relative change here if you like that more. If you're more math.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Magically inclined, you will recognize that this is the log log derivative. Now this is the natural logarithm of the flux. And this is the natural logarithm of this, and it's a log log derivative. Therefore could also think about this as an Excel sheet. You plot J versus E, and then you divide the changes by of J&J and the change of E&E. And then you just click and the Excel becomes a log log Excel and then you have to slope. I mean it's various ways of looking at this, but this is for me the most intuitive way I'd like to think about it like this. Other people like to think about it like this so it can be in between in principle, but I haven't shown this to you. I mean, this is now a handwaving story, but I haven't actually demonstrated.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
But it's. So OK, so now we will have to test whether bar sites have a single rate limiting step, because that's how I started. Is it maybe so that possibly have anyway single rate limiting step and then cancer pathway would have a single rate limiting step? And I would still find one Uncle Gee, maybe one Uncle Gene for breast cancer? Maybe one Uncle Gene for kidney cancer or subdivisions of this. You might expect that still haven't excluded that I need experimental data. Probably to exclude that. So yes, it could be that one of these controls equals one completely limiting. Then all of the others are not. Limiting and it could be that there is a distributed control and we are here. Then various sees may have values in beta.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, now there's a already very historical, I'm afraid to say paper. 1983 ages ago that looked at one of the fundamental processes of life that is making ATP, and you need a lot of that, and doing that in mitochondria so this is sort of a diagram of mitochondria. But I realized this, so this is probably not so easy to understand, but this is a mitochondrial inner membrane. This is the electron transfer chain. This is the thing that makes proteins that pumps protons across the membrane, makes a membrane potential. Oxygen is being used there. Proteins are being pumped across. These proteins make a membrane potential and then this process flow back and they make through an enzyme that makes ATP. And this ATP is being made in the mitochondria, and then it has to be exported in exchange for ADP and then his ATP does something useful for sore legs glucose maybe. Or makes optimizing contract. There's also phosphate involved is also probably examples. What I'm doing here is impressing you, buy it with the fact that it's a pathway. I mean many people thought about this. Well, you know it's obviously only thing that's really important. Is ATP synthesis, so it must be. This enzyme has all the control obvious, right? I think people said David Wilson said. Must be this one, because this actually delivers the ATP, so that must be the rate limiting step. Other people say, well, it must be cytochrome oxidase, which is here because that is most irreversible, so that's the rate limiting step. So were various people thought just like in cancer? OK, there must be D oncology and this was the answer for these control curves. That question one is one of them, one and the other zero, and I need to convince you whether that's true and you can see it's pretty convincing. That's not true. It's not. So that is one is one of this is zero, it is distributed. And this happens in pathways whenever you look at pathways. It's like this. So.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The control is not any single step in biology. Again, in chemistry physics, yes. So that's why physicists and chemists and mathematicians that have looked at chemistry and physics rule Jesus. This biology is too complicated. Let's forget about it. If you're interested really in biology and in curing people, yeah, you have to live with biology, right? If you can't start looking for Higgs bozon's, it's irrelevant. So this is our job. OK, so if it is networks and if many factors are important. Family.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
To deal with it as networks. So now we'll deal with the map kinase Cascade as a network.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And there's various models already in existence. Beautiful models by the half, and they have birth holding Co by Doug Lauffenburger and also beautiful model. Or a twin bed is it is a good friend, but it's very simple so you'll laugh at this model, but it's very nice because it is because of its simplicity.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
It allows you to demonstrate things so really it really abstracts from the from this growth factor party. This this step that you see in Bob Weinberg's diagram as well. So it's confusing to everybody. I suppose this is our full receptor. This is inactive receptor. This is active receptor receptor, EGF receptor becomes activated in this step, which means it binds this EGF epidermal growth factor. That then actually in a set of steps. Leads to the activation of a kinase that phosphorylates here this protein. Which is a Mac. Doesn't matter what it is, but it is cold like that is itself a kinase that activates. That's what's my fascinated people about this that phosphorylates rough another protein and ruffles for lights work. What do these projects mean? Well, they're kind of nice and relevant to know because there in this list of languages 170 uncle genes we have now. All of them feature, so that's interesting. Also GDF receptor. So these are these are this is a case where actually we're talking about multiple oncogenes apparently being all important and an there will be an issue here that I'll try to make that you might expect that one of them is important. Is completely limiting and therefore would have a control coefficient of one and all the other zero. I would think I would expect that, and it's not true, and that's one of the things we may discover. Another thing is that this is in essence Bob Fibers Parkway, because I emphasized there was an error leading from the GF receptor to rush and then from Russ too. To make an informed Mac too rough and rough to work right? That's what these arrows look famous paper at 2000 year, false. Many of you will have seen this and there's a reason version in 2012 I think. Yeah, famous paper. Very good paper, except it's wrong. So things can be good and wrong at the same time. And we'll talk about why this is. This is ridiculous.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
OK now OK, so for me to remember, this is how they're all called. Oh, actually yeah, Mac is the middle rough. Is there OK got the wrong way around. OK yeah, now what you then do is look at the rapid test is work and how does it depend on all the concentration so you get rate equation.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And this is a way of writing the right equations. Vida first rate V for velocities right? First reaction as a function of the Vmax of the first reaction, and then there is a KM. Sorry I concentration of R and there is a KM of our that sort of thing. Some of you will notice from their biochemistry anyway. All of you will know that this is not necessarily easy equation. It's a difficult regression and it looks horrible. OK now part of what we're going to do. Of this facility that we've built is nice.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Yeah, 'cause you don't need to model. That's not a concept here you.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Actually don't need to know these equations, not the concept here. You're going to assume that somebody has made this model, and you're going to trust it, so it's not your aim to be critical of this model at this moment. Could do this in another point. I was not your aim to improve the model. You want to use the model to discover something. And this is also something that's not so commonly said in systems biology. As many people want to do something they want to their ultimate aim in life is to make a model or something, or their ultimate aim in life is to understand that data point or to fit a data point. At sometimes your aim is to understand something. Why does it work like that? Why do we have not one Uncle Gene but many uncle genes WHI are particularly the three in the list of Uncle genes? Why does Rush need to be attached to the membrane? Also, a question like that and that you could do basically by doing an experiment in vitro in vivo or maybe in cell lines or in silico when you have a model like this. Sometimes you can understand how the network works. Typically network properties. You could figure out without even touching a test tube. I touch steps to a lot. I'm not a theoretician. I'm a hybrid, but. You can also do it sometimes with the model.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
That's good news. If you can trust these models, yeah, and sometimes you can because others very serious people have worked on this and they've done good work, although sometimes there may be errors in that, so you'll have to realize this as well. So the idea is not to model here, but use a model to discover system principles, maybe even to discover where you should target the drug. To get rid of a parasite. Can you imagine that? So sometimes people have made models they haven't even thought about getting rid of tumors or getting rid of Trypanosoma brucei or getting rid of malaria that just made a model. You could use this model and then find where in the network you should target your drug, use somebody elses work OK, and that is because these models, if they are a replica of reality, that's of course what's needed. So not all models you could use to do this, but some of them claim to be an image of reality. And that is what this model is.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK, so that's what we're going to go for. This is the simplest version for now, so we end up with this. So part of that is the slides that I already showed you, but if you sort of look half waist and.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Get obviously here.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
That's what I discussed already. Hat will get to doing something useful. Now there's a couple of paradox I already mentioned this. Paradox one in most textbook pathways, looks like this. You may consider this silly or not, but it's like a brain teaser. So people write this and sorry this isn't the kinase and that phosphorylates this protein, which is another kinase. And there's another protein kinase, and this is a transcription factor. You got a cascade of kinases. Anne, this makes no sense statement. There's something wrong with this. So what is wrong with this? Let me ask you anybody knows. Why is this a scheme that you should? If somebody shows, is in in a talk, you should stand up at the other side. This makes no sense ridiculous. Or if it's in the paper, you should reject the paper. I mean most papers have these schemes, so mostly this doesn't happen to papers, but. Anybody know very good? Because then I'm not being paid the enormous sums of money by Damiana to stand there.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
To do this, and another paradoxes is only the first kind, is the limiting step or? Or, or maybe it's the second or it's the third. Yet all three kinases have been reported as Uncle genes. How is that possible if there's only one limiting step? OK, well, so that has to do with the fact that there might be. It might be distributed, but if this is 33%, that is just the 2%. And this is just 3%. Then maybe they can really be Uncle Jeezy. Maybe only if they're all one. So that could they all be one? How could you have three? Limiting started limiting steps in the path?

[812.0s - 841.0s]
OK, and I the first phase is important. It goes that I mean they're also phosphatases here. Do they have any role? Could there be more important? Maybe then the kinases is that where we should target drugs rather than at the kinases. People only think about the receptor until now an the kind axis of many. Not many people I should not say this is but when we did this work nobody thought.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
To foster this target.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
OK, that's #4 so and the idea is you sort this out yourself in the remaining time. And for that you used the next heat modeling handout, but it's really the next PowerPoint.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Slides on this one, so you should look for this one. Which you should find in this handout. And then the idea is you have some sort of a machine which is called a computer with you. And then you go through this website. And if we if it also tried this out, but you saw that this is not a guarantee, but hopefully you can hook onto this. And then you can start to do this. Here you'll recognize it at some point. You reproduce that scheme. This means you're in the wrong on the right track.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And then you you can play with this you see what it is. You can ask questions to this scheme. Say you only want to look how this develops in time. And you want to look at certain things only or you want to change properties. You want to eliminate the phosphatases. For instance, you can do that with this, so that's the idea of running through this net this.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
This scheme here so that is I see a fair so. Let us know if this if this works for you. OK, Are you ready for this? OK, so let's see if it works here. How many of you got this far, either collectively or individually? Showing this screen? Yeah, all of you, yeah, I guess you're right that's what I thought. We do evaluate model and then we see lots of things which is very confusing. But it will have realized that this is time. On the on, the horizontal axis is time on the vertical axis, concentrations of all the players in this game X1X2X3 and the phosphorylated forms of them and the receptor RNRN. I think one of the issues was to identify that are decreases very rapidly. The active receptor decreases very rapidly and that is the way the calculation is set up. At T0. This there was a lot of EDF present. Able to activate R and then the EGF was washed away outside so this was activated and then of course it through reaction one it comes in activated slowly, but it's fairly rapidly in fact in a few seconds it is. I think you will see that. And that is enough. So you get sort of a pulse of R and then both of our activates this kinase. This gives a posavec swampy that gives a pulse of X 2P and it gives a pulse of X3P. Let's have worksheets, so intuition behind that and that is also what you see in this simulation now. So if I do evaluate model again, I should be seeing this again. But it's it's too many to look at. OK, yeah, hopefully. That's what that's what you saw in the last picture. Yeah. OK, now basically we've seen this picture, so let me give up on that one. Then we will increase the time span. What's the idea to make it more visible there so that you can? Demos tell the computer where to look over which time spent to look and not to look at everything. So maybe the interesting stuff is not the receptor itself. You may have seen that this decrease very rapidly as I just said when we look at only the phosphorylated forms of the proteins and maybe at X3 at the same time and. Let us try to see whether it does calculate that, yeah, OK, so this this you might have seen and. I wanted to look at the same time at this picture, so this is the the network diagram, right? Here just for you to be reminded this is X3 that starts high and goes down and there's an X3P. It's hard to see, but it's this curve that went up, so that's this form X3P. It went up and then back down and these are mirror images. So that's a simple question. I can actually do this. Oh, but then I lose that. So. If you look at the scheme X3 and actually P. Oh, maybe you can look at your hand out at the scheme. So that I can. Click in here on the outcome of the computation and then the question is why are X3 and X3P? Why are their mirror images so the sum of the two is is constant one? Why is that? Yeah, interconverted, so there are no reactions that do not bring X three piece to something that isn't X3 and vice versa. She said that at least that that thing works that you want might understand, but something that might be interesting is that if you look at these phases so there's phases of activation of X, one X1 gets phosphorylated and then X2 and X3 and you might ask questions about that, what would you have expected? Intuitively I would have expected actually that it wouldn't. It would be so that once X one is faster is activated. Also X2 is phosphorylated and also X3 is phosphorylated. But here you see that X3 is for instance phosphorylated already long after X one has become D phosphorylated. Actually, of course you can also understand this because you activate this and then after that that and after that. So you also find that. But the third question wasn't at all obvious to me. It still isn't, but you see that in this case, and if you look at the parameter settings after three kinases, they're identical. Still, the amplitude of the three are different. So this one the X3 phosphorylated is high maximum is it goes up to 5855% or .55? Is the third protein the second protein goes up to 20% phosphorylation and the first only 15%? Complication of signal. Yeah, so you have an amplification of the signal and that is then what it does. Even though these parameters are all the same. So that's that is the answer that we wanted to have OK. Then now I must follow this routine. What is the next thing to do so that is what we did?

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
And then we saw this. This is actually this.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
But and then it said we looked at that plot.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
And we ask these questions, yeah? And then the next question was can we now simulate what the effect on of the kinase activities is on the phosphorylation of factor #3? So then you only look you set up the system such that you only look at Factor 3 and you change the. K5 that is the rate constants belonging to the middle kinase II kindnesses from 120 point 8, and that's what I've done, and I sort of prepared for this. And then you then I saw this. And you may have seen the safe if you go through this. This is where we started the situation. This is after you actually change this K5 from 120.8 so reduce it by 20% and you get this effect and this is then the X3P and this is the X3, their mirror images. Again another question is what you would have expected. So this middle kindness you change activity reduce activity. And what would you have expected for the? For the phosphorylation of the third project, I would have expected that the amplitude would go down. Yes, that's what you see. But I would also have expected that the. The position now the the second kind eyes is slower, so therefore the peak would be delayed. Because the rate of activation is less than the peak would occur like here rather than here. So here it happens. Here I now activate a inactivated step that leads to this peak and therefore I my intuition would have told me I go down. OK, that's true, go down, but I also get slower, so the peak the position of the peak will be delayed. OK, this is nice or not. So I'm half right. So this is where a model this type of activity can make you aware of where your intuition made me aware where my intuition failed. Maybe maybe you would have seen this rightly, but I saw it wrongly. I had it half right amplitude down, but I would have expected this to be delayed an in.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Fact then the question is, can you do this for the other two kind ISIS?

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And I also did that prepared for this. And when you do this for the if you now look at the third protein and not at the second kind, we already did this. But if you look at inhibit the first kinase, that's this case, and this is inhibiting the second kind of. Again, my expectations would have been that the amplitude would go down. This is sort of the wild type situation. These are the two mutants or the two patients. If you wish then I would again have expected yes, the amplitude to go down, but the thing to be delayed and it is not delayed. So apparently if you kinases do control the amplitude but not the time it takes for the peak. This is rather an abstract exercise, but in fact it isn't because there's evidence in the literature that tell you that that suggest that this later phase, the fact that sort of the X3P, which is a transcription factor, continues to signal for a long time, enhances the probability of not differentiating the proliferating, so this is tumorigenic. This area longer times sort of the system stays on too long to be active, and if then some other event happens. Then the cells proliferate so that is why, whereas this peak. This timing is good for differentiation, so the balance between this area and that area is the sides about proliferation and differentiation. So here in this case you would have no effect on the on this being a tumor, so but it would be less differentiating sense. It would be good to inhibit this guy has no problem.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
OK, now down here of course, how would you define this? This measure and you come?

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Back to this control coefficient.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
By by really eyeballing this change, you could define what percentage decrease we could measure, what percentage decrease I have of this amplitude? And what percentage change do I have in the duration of this peak? And you divide this by the 20% of this case, changing the kindness activity that you've done.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
And.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
You would see you would get.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Out that if you do this for the amplitude that the control coefficient of this second kindness, that's this example is 1. One and I then surprised it's one. What would your expectation have been? Or maybe this would be our expectation, so this tells you that the second kind is in complete control of the phosphorylation of the third protein. That's OK. Is apparently the rate limiting step and I just tried to indoctrinate you that this would never happen again. That control would be distributed. It would be 30% here. So the percent here 30% it. So I was wrong, right? But I'm always half right and half wrong apparently, so I'm half right and half wrong. Yes, this is said true that this is now full control. Second, kindness. But if you do the same computations for the 1st and the 3rd. You find that they're also controlling to something that's very similar to one. So the solution is now very paradoxically, that there are three steps completely controlling, so we have three rate limiting steps, three times full control in this path, right? Not quite full control. It's not 100%, but it's close to 1. OK, so I told you phrase it in the general dogma is there is 1 right limiting, step OK. And then I told you about that's true for metabolic pathways, metabolic miles, a total control is 1. It's distributed over three factors maybe, or a number of factors. So they all become lower than one. And here you see that the. At. One of them is 1, so it looks like there's a red limiting step. Fully rate limiting, but now three of them are one. Unexpected what is happening here? My. Should be one. So that's a big problem in detail, because in that field in my yard metabolism to some of the flux control coefficients are one. Anne Anne Anne is that now still true and it is still true? So the mathematics of that I can, we can prove analytically. It's still true. So how can this be so? There's some and in fact I must not modify 1/2. The answer is we're not looking at the flux, we're looking at the concentration. But then the summation theorem is 0. But that's also difficult, because now we have OK. We have a sum of three of numbers. Three of them are one, but the total sum must be 0. How can that be done? So we need a negative control coefficient. What does that mean? Well, that actually means if you if you inhibit that step, you get more of a result. OK, now where and you and that is what you see when you do these simulations. Let me go to.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
I'm going back to the scheme 'cause you now look to the scheme. Get which would you be able to tell us how we are now looking at this? And we said somehow it is hard to understand, but there's some of the control of the rate limiting Ness must be zero. It's just some mathematics. Then sum of numbers must be 0. The control of this one is 1. This is a one and this is the one. So we have a sum of numbers. 3 ones already, but the sun must be 0. The mathematician had told tells us this is actually very important because the Romans had no idea that this could happen. the Greeks had no ideas, only the Arabs and the Indians. They figured out the number of one negative and positive. So sum is 03 ones. There must be negatives now. This must be easy. Which could be the negatives? The phosphatases yeah we just forgot about them. We thought they were not relevant. These are the four stages. What would that have to mean? While they would have to mean if you activate them by 1%. X3 goes down. Rather than app. Is that silly? So if you activate this phosphatase, would you expect the amplitude to go down or up? Yeah, so it's completely natural. Actually, this is what you should have expected in the 1st place, so if you activate this one then this becomes lower. If you activate this one with more thinking. Also lower. So yeah, completely natural. So in fact what you see here, you have six very limiting steps, very important steps 3 + 1, three minus one, and the sum of the whole thing is zero. That's what you get now. What's the implication of that we have? Maybe 5 minutes you see. If you run through this and the worse if you do the simulations with the phosphatases. Then

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
You see that indeed they also have strong control on the amplitude.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
But if you.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
And continue in in the exercises, you'll see that if you now play around with the phosphatases. You see? That if you activate the phosphatases that the amplitude goes down negative control. But then the amplitude also shifts in time. And and this is very potentially very important, because this means that if you really think about cancer, an if this indeed has to do with activation later in time. It's what the literature tells us. And the kinases are pretty irrelevant. Is the phosphatases that matter? They determine. Whether you got into that fight, so that's what you see happening in the simulations now. So let's go to the paradoxes where also, what's the best way to do this now?

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
That would come out of the.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
So the question is asked. Yeah, this is the questions asked. So if you if you play with this model, you'll find these questions and I already addressed this one in most textbooks. These routes are shown like this. Does this make sense? And one of the. Simulations. So first of all, we already saw that it doesn't because it really looks like this and you could say, well, the phosphatases are not important and in a human wave fashion you tend to think like this, because ultimately what's important that this gets phosphorylated. So therefore the kinases are what matters because that leads to phosphorylation. But really for the steady state but not for the study site for the level of X Ray P is the other ones that are important as well equally important. So that was the answer to fund this is this is this does not make sense for that reason, but there is another reason. One of the simulations we all I was also ask you to eliminate the phosphatases. Make them zero and then simulate this an. Did you see what came out of that? Did anybody get that far? So if you did this, what you would have seen is that the X3P goes up. And it doesn't come down again, so you don't have this this like this, but it does this. And it stays up all the time. Can you understand that why that happens? So basically in this scheme I put in a little bit of EGF you have goes again again goes away, and then my EX3PX3 becomes completely phosphorylated. Can you understand that? Yes, you can, because there's nothing that defaults related, right? Even a fluctuation here if you wait long enough it will get completely Fast forward. So this means that any of these schemes and this is not only the map kinase their complete rubbish, because what really determines the state of these factors is the balance between what phosphorylation, what dephosphorylates or if it is. If it is ubiquitin elation, it's what ubiquitin lights and deubiquitinating lights hardware so that so. That is why it makes no sense. This passes, and of course, had we realized that a lot longer than people would have focused on the first phase is much more. A lot earlier.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
OK, so it's not only the first kinase, OK, then he said never say, OK, we already know that from other fields, but now we have transduction. We have possibility of three rate limiting steps and three others that are negative 6. So you get also has to do with this amplification.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Idea OK, other phosphatases at all important you would think intuitively, not because they work negatively. And as humans we don't like negative things. But you've seen that they are equally important for the amplitude. And if you look at the lifetime of this peak. And more important, they determined the time this speaks for us, OK?

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
And so there can be more important now. One other thing is that we should look at is this personalization. So.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
Here we here we here we have a computation that is done. So this is the healthy case. These are in fact identicals. So these are these are identicals before anything is done. Then these are two different individuals. They have a prolonged 3P and that is because in this patient think of them as an individual. They have a decreased activity in the first phosphatase by a single nucleotide polymorphism, and this individual has a decreased last phosphatase activity. And if you see that you see that in both cases there is an effect on the. On the. In both cases they have a prolonged X3P, so both of them have a longer duration here. That's what you should look at, so they're both cancer candidates for increased cancer development. These two individuals, but at different individuals, and that has to do with individualized medicine, so this could be you have two patients with a tumor, but they are different. The course of the tumor is different, and now you apply a standard drug, a drug working on the middle phosphatase, and the essence is that you see that the effect of the same drug on the two individuals is completely different. In this one it works, and in this one it doesn't. Yeah. So the drug on the middle foster faces more much more effective in video 4 than any individual 3. So that's just what you can get out of this. This is a very. This is a very important message. Also one of the important messages here is that the duration. Is important. Only dated duration is supported, so you can figure out these principles and be surprised. I was surprised. Second individualization, as you also say is important and 3rd connected to that you can actually do it if you have a patient which has a single nucleotide polymorphism in its tumors, why not put it in the pathway and see whether the drug you have and the present drugs are now working on, not on the second kind is but on the GDF receptor whether they should actually work differently? I mean, you can say that. Individualized medicine is impossible, but it's just not true. You can do it. The question is whether it will work, what the outcome is of the computation, but you cannot say that you cannot try to implement it, OK. Thank you very much for the attention for this. Yeah alright.
