I'm going to talk about the SMS framework, the SMS project, which SMS stands for semantic fine content management systems. Now with the rise of the semantic web they are now not only there to provide content for humans, but also content for machines. It gives you high flexibility because all the communication is solved by RDF, which basically means that can change your protocol, alter different messages that you're passing on very efficiently. So as I said before, is each of the named entity Recognition Solutions has its strengths, weaknesses, and idea was then to apply ensemble learning to combine the tools into compute better results now that 2 min. So we basically try to find tools that were based on different methods and to combine them. Basically, what is then sent back to the source wrapper. So we've gone through the source. For example only accept manually created data, only accept data from certain sources for certain tools and so on. And since this data actually to orchestration service which annotates them and sends the RDF activate Rosa is mentioned here that the crawler implements a rapper without callback. The same thing when the edit or collaborate, publish and share data. We also looked at actors profile that came from the real data and that country profiles that we extracted from. What I did is I presented the SMS framework is a firmware that combines flexibility and accuracy so we have no direct integration of the whole framework into CNS. So basically we have a very flexible protocol that can be extended at real and we have up to 30% more. Our key requirement here was easy integration wanted away. And as I said before, the 2nd requirement was accuracy who wanted to low false positive rate. One is in the domain of renewable energy by the refoundation. The big players, countries and alike, and we wanted to be able to simplify that data, especially that need for stuff like keyword extraction, Angie to extraction data enrichment, an relation extractions to be able to answer business questions. So basically we work with the guys from Ada which is a company here and they have descriptions of cruises and touristic attractions and I wanted to be able to update their knowledge base automatically, add new pictures that new multimedia items. Right up there you have the source of details, so basically used to be content management systems, but it could also be stuff like text databases. Of the architecture is the so called orchestration service. The basic idea of the social pays its job is to send data to the orchestration service so its job is basically to wrap up the source of unstructured data that we have and send whatever should be annotated should be transformed to.