[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you for introduction access my name. Welcome to the beginning of the end, which is basically the first talk on the last day. I'm going to talk about the SMS framework, the SMS project, which SMS stands for semantic fine content management systems.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Now if I was to living with one slide, so if you remember the one slide of the talk show with this one. Basically back in the days content management systems were there to be the tool between humans and the web. So basically they will render information nicely so that we can be accessed everything that's on the web. Now with the rise of the semantic web they are now not only there to provide content for humans, but also content for machines. So we basically need Ways and Means to provide content. The content will provide for humans. US text under like we need to be able to provide some of that in a machine readable format as efficiently as possible, and basically what I'm going to talk about is 1 solution to do that, which is the SMS framework. Now it is a generic solution in the sense of it was designed in such a way that you do not need to change your content management system too much to integrate it in there. It gives you high flexibility because all the communication is solved by RDF, which basically means that can change your protocol, alter different messages that you're passing on very efficiently. And it gives you high accuracy which is very important. You don't want to be re changing and manually editing whatever the system gives you. You want a system that's able to gives you an earlier Fiore former representation of the content of your CMS with a accuracy as high as possible. So basically that's why I'm going to talk about.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Menu today. Now, this is basically what I said. We have humans on one hand and services are kind of barrier. That lead us to web. So basically they contain most of the content to render it. They know which snippet to fit together to give us a web page. And now, with the rise of the semantic Web, what we have is we want machines to be able to do exactly the same. Now you could try to transform everything that that wouldn't work. You could try to have everything in machinery group readable format only. That would be great for humans. So basically what we created is this flexible framework that can be attached loosely to any content management system and that tries to convert whatever is in the CNS for humans into something that machines can read.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The basic idea we wanted to support all the five steps of content creation or basically everything that has to do with content within CMS, that is the creation of content obviously wanted to be able to support the users when they're creating new pages. Tell them that they are similar pages already with content that might interest them. The same thing when the edit or collaborate, publish and share data. We wanted to be to have meta data information in a semantic fashion, especially as well when the archived data we wanted to be able to tell them. This is basically the right archived. Afterwards and then the content expires and is destroyed. So we wanted to be able to supply.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
All these steps and there were quite a few other requirements that we had when we're doing this work, number one was flexibility. We had different companies that use different content management systems, programming different language, and so on board. And actually, if you look at the literature you see that are plenty and plenty of different content management systems that are written in many different languages. And what we wanted. Our key requirement here was easy integration wanted away. Like to create a framework that is such that any kind of measurement system just implemented tiny little bit more, be able to access it and use it. And as I said before, the 2nd requirement was accuracy who wanted to low false positive rate. You basically means we didn't want to force the user to re edit everything that we had generated automatically. Rouleau false negative rate. So we wanted the user to not have to spend too much effort in basically adding up things that we had missed and we wanted us. Well, no restoration. So we wanted to allow the user still to do these changes, so that's that's basically key. We know that machines. Will never be perfect. We wanted to use this to be able to. Basically transformed the content that we generated automatically by using the framework data.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Present the whole thing was used in or is being used in two different use cases. One is in the domain of renewable energy by the refoundation. You can go to the to the address that's mark there. Basically they have plenty of information on renewable energy on the actors. The big players, countries and alike, and we wanted to be able to simplify that data, especially that need for stuff like keyword extraction, Angie to extraction data enrichment, an relation extractions to be able to answer business questions. Such as who acquired who, when and so.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
1. Second use case was in the year of tourism. So basically we work with the guys from Ada which is a company here and they have descriptions of cruises and touristic attractions and I wanted to be able to update their knowledge base automatically, add new pictures that new multimedia items. And obviously do search using named entities. So that was basically the kind of background that we had when we started.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Project. Now to the more technical stuff. This is basically the architecture that we devise Dan. The goal of my talk is basically to go through the different parts of this architecture. Right up there you have the source of details, so basically used to be content management systems, but it could also be stuff like text databases. Our framework really doesn't care as long as whatever is up there implements what we call a source wrapper in source wrapper is basically what takes charge of sending the request to our service. Now the central piece. Of the architecture is the so called orchestration service. It basically takes the requests from. The source wrappers and make sure that the whole pipeline is followed correctly, that the data is written at the right place, and so on and so forth. The other piece that's very central here is the Fox framework. Basically that's it.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
We got to extracting all the structured data out of unstructured data and I'll explain the rest during the talk.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So I'll begin by talking about the source wrapper. The basic idea of the social pays its job is to send data to the orchestration service so its job is basically to wrap up the source of unstructured data that we have and send whatever should be annotated should be transformed to. The service that we have done, their docking station service but as well it receives the response from the orchestration service and can then clean the data. Basically get rid of the things it doesn't want to have. And send it send basically whatever it got from the orchestration service and has been cleaned up back into the content management system by having this loose coupling. Any content management system can implement a wrapper and then use the whole of the framework that's on there.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
It. Now we divide the vocabulary for the requests of the wrapper where we try to reuse as many vocabularies as possible. So basically we use stuff like shock. Obviously idea fix distance one and base.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Actually, what is written in such a request is something I did I hope you can see this. Basically what stated there is that there's a particular document that we want to annotate and we're interested in. Annotate in annotating this special property, which is content encoded, and then the content encoded itself is there. So basically that's the kind of strings that are interested in annotating and the rapid, flexible enough to say this is basically the document that I have in my CMS. Just these are these properties. Don't look at the others.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
OK, so that's basically the kind of RDF that is sent to the orchestration service, which is basically the key piece here. The first thing that the orchestration service actually does is analyzed at IDF and extract to text fragments that are supposed to be transformed and annotated. So basically, out of what I showed you.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Part of the idea this is kind of the tiny little bit of text that is extracted, but obviously when it's large web pages you also get larger chunks of text and you send them.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Then 2D Fox system, which is kind of the key technical part of the talk.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
No, the idea behind Fox. Fox stands for Federated Knowledge Extraction was simply that we observed that there are quite a few tools for named entity recognition, foreign entities, immigration for keyword extraction alike, and we wanted to create a framework that uses the strengths and weaknesses of these tools to basically provide high quality a note.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Nation. This is known for. People this is kind of the idea, but not on sambol learning so you have a couple of classifiers that you know already pretty good and you try to learn the meta classifier, combines those results and makes them even better. That's basically what the Fox framework does. So as I said before, is each of the named entity Recognition Solutions has its strengths, weaknesses, and idea was then to apply ensemble learning to combine the tools into compute better results now that 2 min. Requirements when you want to apply ensemble learning. The first requirement is accuracy, so you need to already have a certain level of accuracy. If you combine 10 tools that are just rent producing random noise, you'll get random noise. So basically you need tools that already have a certain. Accuracy in whatever they're doing, but you also need diversity. If you have tools that are based on exactly the same models, you basically won't get any better. So we basically try to find tools that were based on different methods and to combine them. In our case we use neural network as ensemble learning technique. We didn't use voting which is. Straightforward and most common approach simply because voting cannot make use of systematic errors of the tools. So basically, if you want to, if it's always the case that when 12 says class one and the second tool says Class 2 is actually class 3, you wouldn't really figure that out using voting, but you can figure out using neural networks. So that's the reason why we use.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
But we did that, so that's kind of the architecture how they got of Fox look like whatever input you have, we sent it in parallel. We send it in parallel to different classifiers that give us different production predictions. And these are the predictions that we used in the input layer of a neural network, then send it through a network and basically predict the right. Hopefully you write output. That's pretty straight.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Oh, it isn't it. Fox then returns an answer in RDF format. For that, we also devised a vocabulary that extends anotia and see tag. We added the position of the entity so that the see Ms can basically generated right here DfE and render it properly. We also added the kind of resources so basically do Peter. You always are like that might be mentioned there. Same holds for the tags.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So if you were to, this is basically the demo web page. You can go to Fox HSW dialogue and just giving text we still working on the right disambiguation, but basically should be able to play around with that. And if you give in that.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Example that I presented is basically what you get out of folks. You get for each of the entities you get a certain annotation what type it is, where it starts, where it ends, the kind of resources might be referring to, and you also get the string representation of whatever we we sent in or whatever entities actually labeling there. Notice that when we do not find any DPJ you arise, we actually generate. We have a URL generation service that I did. There is that we try to generate always the same. You arise for strings that are similar to this same type so that we don't have many. You arise for just one entity, so we try to do something applications as well.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Good, now the text went to folks folks since RDF back to the orchestration service and what happens then.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
No Fox is stateless, so basically it doesn't remember where he got the text from because he only gets text anyway, so the orchestration service down now adds some triples to the RDF that was generated, especially. It remembers where it got the information from. So basically add stuff like I'm annotating actually that particular node and a mad notating that particular property so that particular segment of the document that is.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Basically, what is then sent back to the source wrapper. So we've gone through the source. We went through orchestration service, went to Fox Winter orchestration service again went up.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Now the rapper can do plenty of post processing that is basically the CMS that we use Drupal. I think that that picture is pretty cute, so interested we can post process the stream in within the wrapper. For example only accept manually created data, only accept data from certain sources for certain tools and so on. So the Rapids basically free to do whatever it wants with the idea we send it back and the rapid and post process is it usually what's done is that it injects that as RDF into the web pages.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
But that's not the end of the story. I mean, we've gone through every entry.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And it could be, but that's not actually what the orchestration service actually also does is take the same idea in writing a triple store. In this particular case, we based on implementation on visuals, or because it is easily extensible by using the.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Features a programming language. Not the story. The Triple Store does is basically stores not only the IDF consumer castration service, but it also provides a sparkle in print for data enrichment. Return them in it, and we've also extended that via web crawler. As I said before, one of our requirements was detained Richemond. We basically wanted to be able to fetch even more data from the web or link the data within the Triple Store so that we could answer complex business questions, for example. So what we did is whatever documents. Or graphs are found in your crawler. Can basically use the annotations to find similar data on the web. And since this data actually to orchestration service which annotates them and sends the RDF activate Rosa is mentioned here that the crawler implements a rapper without callback. Basic idea being that because the crawler doesn't have a callback or orchestration service does not send an answer back but orchestration stuff is always right to be trolls writes into visuals also actually reach also has the data was looking for. Alright.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Now, now that the data is in there, we can then use editing tools, for example onto wiki to do the whole knowledge creation process on the triples.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
I think that's pretty straightforward. I'm pretty sure all of you have already heard of onto wikis. Basically data wiki you have interest. You have a trooper store you can put on to return it and basically edit whatever data is in there. What we did is we give each user a certain basically username and password and all that, and whenever user edits that Ripple in the Triple Store, the source is changed to that particular user so that the crowd source wrapper can actually decide on whether that triple comes from. An automated source or from a user source, where is the user that it trusts or not, and so on and so forth. So basically add order information and then once the editing is done, the triples are basically sent.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
But not. And last piece of data enrichment that we have in here is basically the lines from work. Life stands for linking framework for metric spaces. Basic idea is that we can have graphs in there that talk about this, some entities and we want to have all those beautiful awesome as links that we talked about. And that's basically the job of limes to find those entities to link them with all simars so that we have also connections between the graph if needed within the project. The people that are using SMS actually are working on.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Um?

[928.0s - 957.0s]
I think I'll skip this one, so we did evaluate the whole system with evaluated, especially Fox. Just a note to make sure that we do abide by the law of accuracy, so we wanted to be as accurate as possible. We use four different datasets and use data set. I was facing constant consisted of news articles from the New York Times website did, which was used in previous work. We also looked at actors profile that came from the real data and that country profiles that we extracted from.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Key pedia we looked at the different other training. The news data was pretty clean so we had pretty strip stable training next quarter approximately.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
89% and we did that by integrating the Stanford tagger, the Illinois Tiger and a commercial tool within folks. We trained the model used. Yeah, 10 fold cross validation. It was an what we could basically show is that we get an F score on it.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
9% on that particular data set, the website data was basically the worst case data you can ever imagine for named entity recognition. Very noisy as the curves show.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
But still able to outperform the other systems with respect to us to ask especially respect to precision, although we did lose a bit of.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
You called there. And on the country, profiles are not profiles data. Basically for sure that when the data is kind of well structured we get F scores beyond. 90% and most importantly, we outperform commercial tools that were designed especially for these purposes.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Alright, I was alone. Information off of information. I won't go. What I did is I presented the SMS framework is a firmware that combines flexibility and accuracy so we have no direct integration of the whole framework into CNS. Is there rather we connect we extended framework a little bit and then we have all these things in the background that you can do. Communication is solved by RDF. So basically we have a very flexible protocol that can be extended at real and we have up to 30% more. F score than traditional frameworks. What we're working on right now is the iritis ambiguation. I mean get hard vacuum to do wonderful job at telling us why so important and then this system will be added to the life environment of these different projects that are presented before hand.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
That was it for my site. Thank you very much. If you have any questions. Did you use any known provenance model for you? Keep a lot of prominence in this system. Did you use any provenance model for that? So far we didn't what we basically did is this the rapper. Basically in a way, the data comes from so the data the Rapper gives us an ID and tells us this is basically whatever document I want to have annotated and we really don't want to know what's happening. This EMS customer business basically tells us This is why I want to have annotated. These are the different properties and restore that information. So if the rapper messes up the keys or doesn't have. Right, she's we basically give him back to the keys that he gave us. Yeah, but you, you showed that you stored in your central said no chips or some provenance information. Definitely. Yeah, we definitely stole whatever the rapper gives us. Just wondering if you use the common model, which it doesn't look like you do so I would suggest you have a look at some common problems models that may help you up. Thank you. We definitely will. Do you use somehow the structured information of content management systems that are provided via the templates where people put in? A title, subtitle and abstract, or to just start on the plaintext. Well, basically what this EMS does is it gives us that gives us the RDF data and tells us this is basically this is the title. This is I don't know the body and so on, but the see Ms also tells us this is 1 what I want to have annotated or we just looked at exactly that, not more. So we look at the plaintext within these boxes that are usually in CMS is. So you look at the HTML plain text. So if we look at the particular text within the boxes, yes, that's what we do with the with the framework. Yeah, OK, thanks. Sure I was wondering, is this more less a closed system or there are excess ability points? For example in if I want if I had my own NLP algorithm they want to plug it into Fox and deliver my own set of energy based content along with the others. Other arguments that you have, can I do is? De Framework is designed to be extensible. Definitely the source code is not yet online, 'cause we're still doing some tweaking, but as soon as it's online is going to be an open source project, so we can just add your things and learn on it and do whatever you want me to. Yeah, it's it's going to be open source. Their framework is going to help us at one point here. OK, thanks sure.
