This is the inferred box. And what's more important, this is the inferred clutter, and you'll notice that in all of these images, half the room is labeled as clutter. So here we chose this approach that basically introduces an informed prior about what latent variables with the latent variables ought to look like. So in particular, we added another term to the energy function, and we said for this energy there's these two terms. And here we have learning with prior terms and you can see that was identified as clutter. So this is the pixelwise classification error in terms of the major faces. Which basically indicates the human labeling for these latent variables aren't necessarily the thing that the algorithm performs best with, and that's something that will come back to. That's what I hope to tell you about today, so let's talk about what it means to go from perception to understand that if this is an image that we hope to, we hope to interpret what we would like to do is we would like to move beyond just labeling pieces of the image in isolation, but rather to come up with a holistic interpretation in the same way that a person might use so to come up with an interpretation that says a man wearing a backpack smoking a cigarette, walking a dog. Try the model tries to assign each pixel to a region while respecting the global coherence of the scene. Figure out how the camera is looking and then predict the the region 3D position using Ray projection. So here are some examples of 3D reconstructions of very different images. This is a typical sliding window detector results and I'm showing you the talk to detections per image. One is indeed over there, but the other ones over there. So what we can see is that we get significant improvements in precision by considering regions and contexts. But if we had, we could get near perfect detection, but but we don't, and so there's still obviously a way to go between. Tree nor person, and so that the fact is that human specified regions are not the most discriminative necessarily from the perspective of computer vision algorithm. That let's really tackle multiclass segmentation in the broadest sense of the word. We have various bits and pieces, so we have fully supervised foreground data from something like Pascal VOC, which is a standard computer vision data set were they have kindly labeled for us the labels for all foreground regions, but the background is left as generic background and we saw how important it is to have labeled background in terms of the interplay between background and foreground. The data set that we constructed, now known as the Stanford background data set has fully specified background classes, but the foreground are labeled as generic foreground, so we don't have a data set that has both at the moment. And to all these datasets, we also have thousands of images that are labeled at the level of bounding boxes. So how would we formulate this as a latent variable model? But we so we think we have a labeling that says it's specific classes in the background must agree with the fact that is. Again, the latent variables tell us the partition into regions as well as the detailed segmentation of the image, and we have a constraint now on the bounding box assignment that says every row and every column in the bounding box must contain a pixel labeled with the bounding box class, because otherwise they would have made the bounding box maybe smaller. So great, we now have a latent variable formulation. And the problem is so basically using this large amount of weakly labeled data provides only marginal improvement, if any. The real issue of course is that this has exponentially many constraints because we have a constraint that specifies the margin for every single possible labeling wine. Specifically, it often requires only map inference relative to this graphical model so that it admits algorithms that are much more tractable and don't require that we compute the partition function or run full scale probabilistic inference. And they actually showed using very nice proof that for many models only polynomial number of cutting planes is required for close to optimal learning, which means that by generating enough bad solutions in this problem, if you generate a polynomial number of those you've converged to something that is actually correct. So the best imputation of the best completion of the hidden variables that's consistent with my ground truth label needs to be better by the margin than any other imputation. So this is sort of the thing that I would most pick this consistent with my ground truth. It starts with an initial estimate of the parameters and then it imputes the latent variables using those current parameters. And you can prove that this converges to a local optimum of this objective function. The first is the work that we've done in holistic scene models, and that's going to have two parts. Start with easy examples and then consider hard ones. With instances are hard for it right now in the current stage of the algorithm. Other details, so now the algorithm says start with an initial estimate W 0. This is a standard example of object detection. So quantitatively, this is my object detection baseline task. What we see here is the test error for SCCP versus self paced learning and we see a healthy improvement in of 1.5% in in the test error. Computing the hidden variables carefully, then you can make good use even a very weakly annotated data. Which classifier should I use? The general theory of relativity. Occlude boundaries and obscure the appearance of major faces and so it's very hard for computer vision style algorithm to know that behind this bed and this cabinet there's actually a wall, and that this is where the wall is, so this is not. Let's see if that applies to computers, so here are our three, three kernels of increasing complexity, and we're going to rely on the theory of multiple kernel learning, which was proposed by Bocklin creator Jordan in 2004, and what that says is we're going to use a weighted average of different kernels. Sub kernels, and then how does one do multiple kernel learning? So we start with an initial estimate. In early iterations the hi's are almost invariably incorrectly imputed. Which means that the cyyz are going to be large even for complex kernels because even for complex kernels, if the bounding boxes right, you can't get things correct, because it's effectively a random prediction problem. So here we're going to model the clutter layout as latent variables. Latent means that they run observed at training time, not just the test time. Iteration 6 we've now nailed. Is the box parameters, age is the set of latent variables, which in our case is a binary mask for each pixel, or each super pixel in the image. Rather, let the algorithm gradually adapt to increasing levels of complexity.