So one of the goals of human of neuroimaging is human brain mapping for both normal and pathological. OK, so we need to define a null hypothesis at the image scale. And if I minimize NOLA prothesis, is pretense that the activation is zero everywhere. This is the test that you want to make you want to do when you have. Also in the GLM or some advanced version of the GLM generalized linear model where you have some covariation in the error vector that could be model as well. I would say the distribution of the parameters in terms of space. The nice thing with the GLM is that you it includes like I said here, multiple instances of parametric inference, not only test testing, but you can do linear regression, analysis of variance, whatever. And instruments like positron emission tomography, one tool which is very very popular today and which has been with a very strong community in terms of applied statistics to process the data coming from the instrument is functional magnetic resonance imaging, which is fMRI which basically gives you a picture of the activity of the brain at one not one time instance, but integrated overtime like over second or Alpha 2nd. So the problem is that you cannot do a statistical inference with bootstrap samples because they are not independent. RFT, OK, but to do this kind of fwer control, but that data resampling with based sorry did every sampling based on permutations can help you do that, especially in space where you want to control for the familywise error rate across the brain by taking like the summarizing statistics, the statistics of the maximum across space. So usually what we take at the summarizing statistic is the average. Hope it makes sense. Method Three is the same story, except that you do that you do that time by time and you end up having threshold for every time instant. The transformation of this. What I just said, three different approaches to control for the familywise error rate. And you take. You do the same. For instance, you end up still controlling for the fwer. I mean error that you commit by applying this threshold everywhere in the brain based on the familywise error that you want to control. But everybody else at the meeting? Of course, that this statistic is very conservative, even though you want to control for the familywise error rate. I mean the covariance of the data that you you can model using the. And look, you can still control for the familywise error rate. At the group level, in terms of space, but still have a very nonhomogenous error rate at the voxel level, because the variance is not controlled. We have a synaptic synaptic detection of brain activations, meaning that we can detect potentially everything that's going on in the brain. You need to go through like a pipeline of processes. I have adapted some slides from Will Penny in London dealing with this that was illustrating who was illustrating this kind of point about detecting signal in the noise with.