[0.0s - 29.0s]
The Brain Imaging Group in less Healthy Hospital which is not too far from here. First of all, I wanted to thank alleviate it all, but it's not there. Apparently not here today. So thank you all for being here and for trying to listen to somebody who is not a statistician. My background is more in electrical engineering and signal and image processing and which means that I have working in brain imaging and I will try to elaborate a bit on that. It means that I need to embrace, or at least to approach different techniques to process some signals that come from an instrument, and as very often in experimental physics, an experimental science in general, we have repetitions of acquisitions of data and we try to make sense out of this data, and one way, as you know, even better than me to make sense of data, or at least to ask questions and make hypothesis, is to do statistiques. So Statistiques is a tool for me, it's not. That's something that I developed, but you will see that we had to pick up some things from statistical literature, including resampling approaches to address some specific questions on the data we have, and I will try to make that clear, so please feel free to interrupt and ask.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Questions. So I thought it could be important to recall what's what's functional brain imaging today. It's a very active field in very multidisciplinary field. Like I said before, it includes not only people like me, but also people. Of course, doing experiments and it starts with with clinicians, but also cognitive, neuro scientists and psychologists. So one of the goals of human of neuroimaging is human brain mapping for both normal and pathological. Brain functions. So The thing is that we have to do this with a choice of.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Instruments and starting from I would say historical POV. Very early brain mapping techniques where using nuclear medicine tools or.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And instruments like positron emission tomography, one tool which is very very popular today and which has been with a very strong community in terms of applied statistics to process the data coming from the instrument is functional magnetic resonance imaging, which is fMRI which basically gives you a picture of the activity of the brain at one not one time instance, but integrated overtime like over second or Alpha 2nd. And my primary expertise is more in electrophysiological. Instruments which, as I will try to show you have a reasonable spatial resolution but excellent time resolution. So here we need to do some inference both in time and space.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Necessary, so I thought it could be interesting to illustrate my my talk with a very simple example of what we could we can do today. It's the experiment. Looks very basic, but it's quite difficult to do this kind of bull catching experiment in in an experimental and very controlled environment, which includes a lot of constraints. As soon as you have a very sensitive instrument like this one. So what is it? So first of all, this is a collaboration with college difference with Patricia New and Amber Toes an these guys are interested in very fast mechanisms in the brain to intercept moving objects. OK, so it's a bit of a background and the experiment. It's some data that I like to show because it's very ecological in away in terms of the setup. It consists for the subject to catch free falling ball which is a tennis ball with false within 400 milliseconds. As you see in his or her hand and the funny machine that you see is what we call a magnetoencephalography and it measures the very tiny magnetic fields that are produced by the neurons when they are active and these magnetic fields are on the order of billion or 1010 billion times weaker than the Earth magnetic field static magnetic field. So it means that you will be very cautious. You need to be very cautious about the instrument. And This is why you have a huge tank of filled with liquid helium because we use superconductive sensors to measure these to pick up these very tiny magnetic fields. But I don't want to spend too much time on the details. I would be very happy to answer questions. The thing is that the subject is sitting in the instrument and the ball will be falling 400 millisecond. And of course we are curious about knowing or guessing or inferring about what might be going on in the brain. When the ball is falling, so I will show you a little movie here. I don't know whether it's right. I mean, the screen is bright enough, but basically what you see is 2 views of the same brain which has been smoothed. It's a surface of the brain. It's the surface of the brain that has been smoothed in order to see the second solutions, the the what we call the circus. The sulci, which are the folds of the brain and about 2/3 of the brain are folded so we need to smooth or inflate the brain surface to see better what's going on. Even though here the resolution is not so good so it's the right side. The left side and the backside here of course and here this time scale ranges. From minus 100 millisecond. Two 400 millisecond, 400 milliseconds is the time when the bowler is forced into the hand of the subject and zero is the time when the ball is released. So it's a free falling time period for the ball and what you see in white. It's just a time time curve that represents the global brain activity in terms of integration, instantaneous integration of electrical currents as estimated from the magnetic fields coming outside of the brain, which means that. I don't mind the purpose of this talk is not on the inverse problems and forward problems, But this is what we develop in my group. We develop inverse modeling techniques to move from this data to this kind of representation of the sources of the magnetic fields. So there is a little red cursor that will that is moving along the white curve. So the ball has been released and what you see is just illustrative. You see some very rapid unfolding of the brain activity pattern that starts from the back of the head in the visual system. Anne reaches the What we call the dorsal part of the brain with the parrot or lobe and basically the activity is moving to the the motor area. And you've seen maybe, maybe not a very fast activity in the motor area even though we are half way of having the ball into the hand. Meaning that while I'm speaking and telling words have alot of things are occurring in the brain or obviously including some preparation for the movement as we expect. And. So and then activity goes back to the baseline. Not exactly the baseline, it's it's. You see some kind of plateau where the we don't see very clearly what's happening, but if you look very closely to the details, the activities focused, I mean the significant activity, and I will go back to that later. This significant activity, we forget to what's going on during rest. Is occurring individual system as if the physics of the ball catching movement has been solved by the rain and then the subject waits until the ball falls which occurs. I mean Rich is the hand which occurs at about 350 or 400 milliseconds where the motor program has been recalled with them without going through the global enfolding. So many, many worlds have been telling you for something that has been taking 400 milliseconds in the brain and this is just an example. The brain works like that very fast of course, and The thing is that what I show here is obviously some activity that has been estimated using an inverse model. Estimated at the surface of the brain so we don't work with cubes, voxels, meaning slices of dense arrays of pixels in the volume. We work on a manifold in R3, which is a surface, and as you see as you don't as you see here, we have some clusters of activity that has been declared as significant with regards to what's occurring on the baseline. We're here. It's only rest for the subject, or at least. At the minimum, some expectation of the ball 2, four, which is not negligible. And the rest of the brain is just not colored, meaning that we have declared this this activity as non significant. So this is really the core of my talk today and this is where I would be very happy to discuss with you as experts of this. And usually what we do in cognitive neuroscience, for instance, if you have one subject like a patient and you would like to know whether the activity you see in the traces of his brain of his magnetic field. Coming from epileptic activity, then basically you you make him rest in the machine for like 2 hours and you keep on recording data, accumulating data samples and then maybe you want to contrast what you see as maybe some pathological traces like epilepsy and to some baseline activity which seems to be normal. So we this is and you accumulate this kind of samples. This this kind of period of times and then you do some inference on this group. Of data, usually in connection cognitive neuroscience, you want to address a specific question like. Where the areas of the brain are involved in processing a second language, for instance, or memory or faces or emotions, whatever. So in that case you use a sample note of of trials like we call trials repetitions of the same experiment, but rather a repetition of the same experiment across multiple subjects. So you accumulate samples across subjects. So I can draw maybe a little sketch, but I have some slides to explain what's going on, what's going on in?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Community. So excuse me, I try to go back to this. So you see that with this kind of images, it's not only images, it's series of images. It's like a movie. It's basically a movie with one image every millisecond. We have a synaptic synaptic detection of brain activations, meaning that we can detect potentially everything that's going on in the brain. Relocate.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Ocean. And we have a reasonable special resolution which is limited not only to the instruments, but also to the noise, of course, and to the inverse. The physics of the forward problem.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And we have a some excellent time resolution which can go even below.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Millisecond, OK, that's the background. So whether you use PET or functional magnetic resonance imaging or imagine e.g. Magnetic magnet on Sarah, feel like I've shown you or electrons fotografie, which is very similar. You need to go through like a pipeline of processes. It's quite a complex task from a very practical point of view. As soon as you have this load of experimental data. So like I said before here you may have a scan what we call a scan. Basically a scan is a sample of the brain activity. During some condition experimental condition. This could be the same subject, but it could be doing the task several times, but it could be also several subjects doing the same task one time for instance. So we have image data, so if you have your subject involved in the task of several subjects, you need to do some realignment because the brain is moving and if you have several subjects, you need to also to compare brains which are different. So there is a true image processing and even more than image processing. You have a true. I should say this is a true issue here. How to compare brains and how to realign brains in a common reference system? Then one approach could be a normalization to some anatomical reference. I don't want to go into the details, but I would like you to have if you are not aware of this, to show you that statistics come at the very end of pipeline of processes. Like I say here, then I skip the details here. I will come back to this later once you have realigned everybody. Or every trial. So you need to smooth or to make sure that the distribution of variance, for instance, is quite a maginus across the data you have or you want at least to take care of that. So moving is one way of doing that in space. Some people do some inference based on the general linear model. I will try to explain what it is to get a static image. Basically it's a model fitting approach. You have a design matrix that describes the different factors in your experiment and you want to fit the model to the data. And this can be done in a very mundane, not mundane or very simple linear model, which is very which is very powerful in terms of of inferences that you can do from this. So you can apply this linear model and then use parametric approaches using a random field theory in terms of description of the data you have in the images. I mean the distribution of random variables you have in the images. Or you can do nonparametric. You can approach this problem with nonparametric techniques. I mean data resampling techniques. And basically using permutation tests and this is what we have contributed to lately. It's a long story, so I will try to.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Focus on a few things here. So I don't know. I don't know whether what I'm telling is really basic. I'm very sorry if you think it's very, very evident and I guess it's very evident to most of you, but I would like to at least pick my own language and maybe you can correct me or suggest me some other pathways. But still what we are dealing with are not time series, it's these are images. Well, does it make a lot of difference? Yes it does because you have a lot of data for every sample. That you are crying and also you have some dependence not only with neighbors, not only in 2D but also in 3D. Remember that we are dealing with a manifold in R3 or even a volume. If you want to detect everything, everything that's going on in the in the brain. So more than images, it's a stack of images. It's a volume, but I will to illustrate my point. I have adapted some slides from Will Penny in London dealing with this that was illustrating who was illustrating this kind of point about detecting signal in the noise with. Which statistical inference? Basically, and here we have 10 different images and let's imagine these are 10 repetitions of the same experiment and this is the data that you get with the signal of interest, which is this circle which is a deterministic and stationary across trials and you have noise. And this is basically what you get and you want of course to detect to come as close as possible to the signal is the very basic approach.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The thing is that if you don't correct for multiple hypothesis because basically you can have a massive massively univariate approach that would let you apply some basic T tests between OK the noise plus signal condition, an baseline where you would expect to have only noise of course, and if you do like multiple tests across your image, like here, it could be a 100 by 100 pixel, but in arrive for instance you have. Stacks of voxels, which are cubes of something like 256 by 256 by 256 which makes alot alot of tests that you have to do with very little very small group of very few samples. So it makes a lot of multiple comparisons with limited data sets, and this is basically what happens when you don't correct for multiple hypothesis. In the case of images in red, the red circle recalls where is the signal of interest, which is pretty well detected. But of course you have a lot of false positives. Basically, when you don't correct for multiple hypothesis as you know. An you apply this kind of type 1 error rate, then you end up having this type 1 error rate, but it's really not. There are too many false alarms in terms of detection.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
OK. So you end up her giving a false conclusion to your analysis. Imagine you're a surgeon and you want to know where whether a tumor is. Let's say, some neurons neural tissue is active is active around some some tumor, and so basically you would. You would. It's not a good example, because here you would see that some activity is going on around the tumor, so you would not remove this tissue. But in fact you could, because basically these are all false alarms, so your surgery would be even more if. If you had, if you would have a better tool to infer whether this is active or not in terms of function.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
OK, so we need to define a null hypothesis at the image scale. So on very very many different I would say. Elements of the measures.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
OK. So of course, what what has been very popular historically in our field, and I guess it's also the same story from the Statistiques POV. I mean the pure statistics point of view is to try to control or to design first. The Familywise Mail hypothesis. And if I minimize NOLA prothesis, is pretense that the activation is zero everywhere. This is the test that you want to make you want to do when you have. Two different experimental conditions, rest versus look at Smiley faces and this is the test you want to do at every single voxel, but you want to control for the error rate across the entire set of voxel or pixels in your image, and they are again very very many voxels.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, so the basic idea being in this hypothesis at the image level is that you want to reject this. I put this is if this iPod Danala hypothesis has been violated at voxel at any boxer, and what we call the familywise error in our in our community is basically this kind of configuration where voxel dinner I policies have been rejected at some voxel an you want to.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Control for the rate of familywise error is the same story as Alpha type 1 error, except that you want to control it on the image view.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Alright, so it's very simple, so again, this is the the what I've shown before without any correction and this is here with some correction where you see that basically you end up having very little or at least a rate of false positives that you can barely see here you have full positive here, which is much better than here and basically all that you detect to this up to this error rate here, but at the familywise scale. And these are real positives, but the downside of that is that you've been maybe too conservative and you end up not detecting everything you would like to detect.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK. So the thing with images and basically the kind of images we are dealing with, these are not. These are The thing is that we don't have independent voxels, meaning that some activity somewhere in the brain that you that you estimate from the inverse problem or the inverse model you have. Is dependent to its neighbors and sometimes to some very large distance. It depends on where you are in the brain and which kind of much kind of modality you are using in terms of instrument. But if of course if the voxels would wear completely independent we could apply the Bonferroni correction, which is way too conservative because the kind of image we have is not like this, but it's more like this. Of course, as you have understood we have a very strong spatial correlation. Across the activity we are, we might detect and if we apply this. This sorry, this correction we might end up with having this kind of image where we have too many voxels that has been that have been. Detected as false negatives.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
OK, so now I go back to the general linear model and there's been a very huge literature, at least in my community. In the neuroimaging community, and it has.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Started.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Very strongly back in the. In the 1995, nineteen, 97 with people with statisticians like Keith Worsley works in Montreal and with people with Cal Tristan, whose history is quite amazing, is a psychiatrist, and he's been doing his PhD in London. And then he moved to key sources group in Montreal. And then he learns about statistics. If I may say so, and the way statistics and hypothesis testing could be efficiently done. With brain images and brain volumes of brain Images, Ann now is one of the very very famous people in my community and very strong in many different ways. And he's been also very strong in developing software that to be distributed to the Community, because, again, it's a multidisciplinary community without too many too much caricature. You have people doing experiments and you have people developing methods and these people work, sometimes together, sometimes sometimes, sometimes not, but one way to make them communicate is really software, an friston and frackowiak in London. I've been very good in putting some Matlab toolbox. Even software on the market which I miss you so for free, so this is what they call the SPM toolbox and which is still very very popular. But there are some other alternatives of course an the other alternatives also deviate from SPM from the models they suggest in terms of modeling the activity. The underlying activity within the image map. So let's go back to here. The data you are. Simulating with your different subjects or different trials can be represented in this kind of data vector, where each vector each entry of the vector could be a voxel, for instance, or series of acquisition. You have a design matrix that trying tries to model for the different contributions in the design of the protocol like this is this would be a time that goes like that on the para meters. An you your design will let the model know that you go through condition A and condition B condition, a condition CD and so forth. This is really. This translates all the. Yeah, the timeline and the dependencies of the image parameters with the protocol. The timeline of the protocol, which is very important. We've also some modeling of the compounds do. You might have like movements like respiratory artifacts, because remember this is really biophysical measurements, so there are many many different artifacts. Sometimes that you can control, and it's good to have regresses. To remove them from the measurements, here you have the different parameters that you would like to estimate from your data. Knowing the design metrics and you have some error vector which plays a very crucial role. Also in the GLM or some advanced version of the GLM generalized linear model where you have some covariation in the error vector that could be model as well. So everything is based, not everything. I would say the distribution of the parameters in terms of space. So is constrained to the image support, which could be a volume of images and the techniques that come with the GLM, or at least the estimation we behind the GLM come from random field theory from probability which have been where kids were flares being very strong in developing tools in the image context. OK.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So the good thing with GLM, like I said on top of being very close to the experimental design, which is very important of course because people know a lot when the design experiment even more than we expect, so it's always good to put this very explicitly in the design and but the downside of that is that maybe you want to put more than you should. It's about like and. This is why people are now moving more and more readily to basean. The Bayesian framework where this kind of prior can be explicitly introduced, but more in terms of of a probability distribution rather than a very strong, had hardwired design matrix. But I don't want to say way too much. The nice thing with the GLM is that you it includes like I said here, multiple instances of parametric inference, not only test testing, but you can do linear regression, analysis of variance, whatever. So it's a very, very stronger community. Very good software, very good people. And The thing is that. So it's very adapted. Went back to maybe two to three years ago. It was very well adapted to very dense grids of data like these voxels really like images, 2D images with stacks in the volume like that. We're basically you can apply basic smoothing with a Gaussian kernel to make sure that the distribution of variance is uniform and so forth so that the hypothesis assumptions behind the arrests and forced but.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
It is a different story when you come to detect activity electrical activity from the neurons. And this is typically what we do in energy and EG. Like I was showing you with the ball catching experiments, sorry. And where the model here in terms of Physiology is more like I said before, not a volume of activity, it's more surface which is folded in 3D. It's a manifold of R3 and what I show you here is a brain surface with red patches which are simulated activations. And if we zoom in and we go and see what's going on in terms of modeling the currents where the currents come from the cortex mainly so it's a surface, it's really not a volume. The thickness of the surface is like 5 to 6 centimeters millimeters, so it's very thin with regards to the brain volume. And the distribution of occurrence. It follows the Circum volution's of the cortex, so it's 3D, like detecting activity on the cortex, not in a volume. So if you apply some random field model which pretends that the activity comes from a dense distribution of data in a volume, you commit some, you do some estimation with very strong bias, because the model you are. Using is really not adequate or it's not as accurate as it could be, and what we suggest is to detect directly activity on the cortical surface, and I apologize. This view is not very good, but it's supposed to be the inflated version of the brain again, and the dock lines are supposed to be the sides of a triangle, so we use the brain surface as a playground, and we use a tessellations triangulations of the surface. So the challenge is to. Apply the tools from random field models to a surface, so it means that the smoothing you apply on your data must be must follow the geometry in that.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Apology of the surface.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So this is something that we have developed in this in this publication. And I would be very happy to send you a copy if you want, but.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
More than this, we were very curious about testing resampling techniques, which have been very, very successful and very powerful. New tools, not so new, but now it's becoming more and more easy and more more accessible to run resampling approaches even on large arrays of data like that, because computer power is becoming cheaper and cheaper. So this is also something that we were curious because the other. Problem with the parametric testing is that basically you want you pretend your data is distributed is normally distributed and you make all you are cautious about making this as normal as possible, but there is no guarantee that normality is enforced.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So. Alright, maybe I will skip the part on the bootstrap because it doesn't relates directly to statistical inference. It's not on about resampling the data and creating creating surrogate data from the block of data we have. We have a space here which could be sensors or brain activity. At some locations we have time and we have repetitions samples across subjects or across time. So by randomly picking, picking up some slices of data and respecting the respect also to the correlation in space of the data.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Then we can apply some resampling techniques by filling out a new cube or new array of data.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Data and we can create loads of resampled data and you know. So the Prince.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
With Bootstrap and then we can apply the estimators on each of the resampled data blocks an estimates the average amplitudes. The bias of the amplitude that we have estimated on the brain and also the variance of the estimator. And as you know it's a very accurate technique and it's very useful in our community to know not only about the brain activity that that. Changes overtime, but also about the possible. The confidence we might have in the estimator. So it's really something.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
It is very useful. So the problem is that you cannot do a statistical inference with bootstrap samples because they are not independent. They come from the same original data, so we.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
I've been using permutation techniques and I will try to summarize, so I wanted to recall that we can use.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
RFT, OK, but to do this kind of fwer control, but that data resampling with based sorry did every sampling based on permutations can help you do that, especially in space where you want to control for the familywise error rate across the brain by taking like the summarizing statistics, the statistics of the maximum across space. Either at one time instant or across time. OK, and this is a detail in this publication and this is very basic approach.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Do what was not maybe so basic to begin with was to how to do that in practice. So what we take as a static statistique statistique, sorry, mean measure is the T statistics at every voxel. If I may say so. So voxel voxel IJ is the number of samples we have for each measure. Sigma is a simple statistics over a baseline ANM UI is just the centered activation we are with respect to the baseline as well, so we could. The baseline is what when you compare condition is a an condition B you take condition A as the baseline as a reference, and you take the average activity everywhere under standard deviation everywhere on the baseline, and you transform your data using this well known. Transform and you end up doing your statistical inference and see whether this this measure departs from zero at the population. I mean at the special scale at the Family Wise scale on it. And how do we do that? It's a bit like the the Bootstrap, except that here what we take is what we call the originally box, where the blue and codes for condition a data acquired across condition A. Or exactly so across subjects. Maybe in the third dimension, or across repetitions for the same subject again and the Gray bar is condition be so under the null hypothesis that condition A is like condition B, we can exchange these data segments if I miss it so randomly. And then we create. This way a lot of permutation samples. Even just like the bootstrap. Even here we don't do that time by time we do that condition by condition and this is illustrated here with the blue and Gray bars that are shifted permitted. So usually what we take at the summarizing statistic is the average. This is exactly what I wanted to illustrate here. This is the average across the repetitions J and we get at every voxel I for every time T. The average statistics across the original box, and we do that for all the permutation samples, so we end up having. A sample of the distribution of sorry of the summarizing statistics under the null hypothesis that condition a response of the brain in condition A is like in condition BI. Hope it makes sense. OK, and then you end up having three different possible approaches to control for the fwer. Either you take the you take the global maximum at every time instant, and you you compute it's. It's excuse me the distribution of the global maximum of across the image for every time, every work cell and every time instant. This is method one. Method Three is the same story, except that you do that you do that time by time and you end up having threshold for every time instant. Here it's a global threshold for across time. It's a little variation, provided we don't have any prior on the covariance of the time series and here. It's something that is a bit more. It's really more computationally demanding. It's the more accurate, it's the evaluation. The transformation of this. Of the distribution of the maximum in terms of probability at every time instant, it's a normal is at every location. It's a normalization approach where you want to have the probability to get the maximum at every location. Here it's very specific to location in space and you want to have this distribution of this maximum everywhere in the brain so that you can normalize this distribution in terms which is supposed to be uniform everywhere in the brain. So it's I will just try to how it can be achieved. So I have maybe a few minutes left.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
To show you some examples.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So this is basically.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
What I just said, three different approaches to control for the familywise error rate. So epic wise threshold, you take the same threshold across the puck across time. And you take. So then you take the maximum across the image. The distribution of the maximum across the image an across time. You do the same here, except that you have a time varying threshold. You do the same. Section except that you have a different threshold for every time instant. If you don't have any prior on the evolution of the variation of the of the waveform. Sorry, and here this is a way to control for to enforce uniform distribution of the maximum everywhere in the. In the brain.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So I will skip this one, so this is an attempt to illustrate what I just said. It's here image Ng. Imagine you have a different voxels like here you have six work cells and here this is the sample distribution of the maximum. Across the entire image, which means across the different voxels and you want to apply some type, I would say type 1F WER error rates of 5%. So this is exactly what the permutation I've done for you want to control at the familywise scale. If I may say so for this kind of error. And here we want 5%, and this is illustrated here and in this column. This is where you don't use the T statistics. You basically use them. You statistically, which is just the average. So basically the average is centered everywhere to go across the road, but the variance is not controlled and you end up not having a uniform distribution of the Type 1 error at every local spot. If you apply normalization with the variance like using the T statistics, but you don't have a Gaussian distribution of your data of your measure, so you have skewed distribution like this. For instance, you end up still controlling for the fwer. But you end up having some nonhomogenous threshold. I mean error that you commit by applying this threshold everywhere in the brain based on the familywise error that you want to control. And in the sense in the case where you apply this estimation of the probability density of the maximum at everywhere given that you produce a lot of resamples, you end up having a very homogeneous distribution of this probability and you see control. Of course, for the 5% error rate, but also for the very same error rate at every location, which is more satisfactory. OK. These

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Examples and I will show you hear some Monte Carlo simulations and let's please try so these are based on Monte Carlo simulations on on. Noisy data basically that we have. These are different trials of noisy data and we wanted to apply this kind of statistical inference based on permutations. Here are our random field methods and you see if you focused here on the dis column you see that the observed familywise error rate in terms of permutation with the one of the methods have been introducing is very close to the expected value, whereas the RFT approach based on the general linear model with a random field statistics is very much more conservative, so. As expected, the given you you run sufficient sufficient number of permutation you end up having some exact statistics rather than an synthetic aseptically. Exact statistics with RFT.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
And I wanted to end up with another experiment that we have just published recently. And then I will. I would be happy to discuss with you about all this, and this is an experiment where basically we ask the subject to let's see if it works. It doesn't work. I'm sorry. Where we see what's happening here, it's a. It's a visual motor experiment where the subject is has to control a cube which is moving in 3D across its centroid and with some pseudo random movement and basically with the trackball. You want to keep the blue one of the faces of the cube which is colored with blue in front of you, so it's like moving. Playing with a joystick, even though it's a trackball here and here we want we are very curious so that looking at. Stationary activity in the brain rather than some very transient activity when the ball is falling for 400 millisecond, nothing is stationary in the brain. At this scale everything is goes very fast and different areas are. There is a cascade of events. Basically here there it's we're not dealing with milliseconds, we're dealing with seconds, but at the millisecond with a millisecond resolution and what you see in green is the instantaneous. Velocity of the hand that was measured on the trackball and we were curious about finding a brain activity in which was a coherent with some parameters of the movement like the speed of the hand. So I think the Pascal challenge and program is involved in brain computer interface. And I think I wanted to take this example because it's this is typically a task where you would like to see a computer in brain computer interface succeed in decoding the brain activity for people. Basically, we cannot manipulate trackballs you would like to see the brain activity controlled Q bar mouse on the screen for instance. So this is typically what we see here. In green we have the hand activity and in blue the hand velocity. Sorry, an in blue we have. The activity in the motor area of the hand. Of the right hand, which is on the left part of the brain. And you see some very strong correlation between in terms of phase and phase. Looking between this motor parameter, the movement of the hand and the activity of the brain. And this is to our knowledge, the first time that we can see that with noninvasive techniques, because there are many groups working on this kind of issue, but usually with monkeys with depth electrodes or with epileptic patients with depth electrodes as well. And here this is this. This was to our knowledge the 1st.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Time we we could see this kind of activity and Furthermore we pushed the ball a bit further by looking at the brain areas that we're very coherent in activity with the motor area and we found this very widespread network of activity which makes sense to neuro scientists in terms of control for I movements. This very huge activity in the sensory motor area of the hand. I don't know whether you can see, but there is some cerebellar activity which is always involved. In hand movement control some deep activity in the brain in the thalamus and some activity in the orbitofrontal area involving attention attentional circuits. Usually as we say. What I wanted to illustrate this is it's just the result of the huge pipeline I wanted to show you at the beginning and on the statistical inference at the group level Group in terms of subjects here we had 14 subjects we had to do some anatomical coregistration, so a lot of processing. But still we could detect some very nice correlation between. This behavioral activity and the brain activity and further within the brain we could see some very nice pattern of activity that all resonates at the very same frequency about four Hertz, because the blue, the blue, I mean the sorry. The green curve here the Green Time series oscillates at about four Hertz. This is the typical brain movement and movement you do in terms of speed adjustment. When you do this kind of task. And you see that the brain activity just locks on well, it's a feedback loop, but it looks on the behavioral measurement and it resonates across the brain at a very wide scale. In terms of space. Even down into the cerebellum.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
OK, so this is basically what I wanted to say here and I want to thank you for your attention. Yes. Fascinating. Thank you. It's amazingly close to what people do in my code is that it's like we have today already in what, sorry? Oh yes. Continuous measurement only a little bit more involved than there, but you have the space time even in micro razor data you have time also. Father for this, for the time being. Maybe later, yes. Very similar in practice, many many hypothesis to test basically, and This is why I want to ask you really something you mentioned the test to do based on the difference means or the test plan. And. I will discuss tomorrow hoping to convince you that there is a danger during fermentation haha. Open update you so much. Maybe do already because of this, but. We have any concerns about this, so I want to ask you when you leave your simulations. For example, 11 distributions have you used.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Hello, what vision data yes yes yes. I try to remember why you were asking and when. I was showing this slide I had also hold in my memory. I realized that I couldn't. No, I think they were not normal because if they were normal, if they had been normal, you would have also 5% accuracy. I mean also accuracy with the RFT model which is also based on normal distribution of data. I would say. But everybody else at the meeting? Yeah, I have the paper here. I'm sorry, but I guess it was not normal. No. Epic. Undesired differences between the two distributions that you are comparing. So that's the main idea. Not only the difference you need, so if there are some other differences. Other higher evil moment equivalence different. This will take probably. Before, but if you have identical distributions except for the mean. OK then. The cousin relations did well. I guess that was again, maybe maybe, maybe I. OK. Without having the same exact OK is it is? Is there a good reason for why it would OK? Yeah, OK. Sure there is a good reason, but. If you don't believe my. Or to do? And presentations in Parliament. High enough. Compare the two. We will see again quite different in our big problem is that usually the sample size is very small. We forget to the number. Yeah, yeah, yeah, like you have maybe 20 subjects to the maximum in everyday experiments. Of course if you do some clinical trials you end up having maybe 1000 people, but usually it's a very small sample, so we have very, very much on the edge of being. Of yeah yeah. Yeah, and provided also that there is a huge difference between brain geometry's an even brain responses. You cannot expect people to many different people in this room even though they understand about statistics. If you put them in front of a task where they have to speak a foreign language or press 10 buttons there is no reason why their brains will respond in the same way all we can get is a very poor image which is which is basically the average across 15 people and. It's better than nothing. Picture. Published in here to go where they actually looked at the residuals. True yeah. Yeah, so there are some subsystems that everybody activated, but other people some people would activate this part of the brain. Exactly, yeah, right? Right, there is a very nice study by Beth Ontario from your inner Ear project an it's been accumulating data for almost years now asking people systematically to do the same very basic task. Visual pattern. Not analysis, but visual perception, somatosensory stuff. And this is what he calls a localising paradigm, and it lasts 5 minutes and it's put in front of every paradigms they have back in no spin. So now is, I think like almost 400 or 350 people doing the same stuff and he has analyzed using some other tools than the residuals, but you can do that with the residuals you with this kind of sample size you can. You can do some cluster analysis across individuals and you see some patterns you see. Some people doing more like that, and some people doing more adapt. It's very interesting. Challenge one of the guys from the from the Wall or Wonder Challenge where we're using, say, Johnny Bananas. Mastering the people first and then learning specific hypothesis for each of the other classes. Example, mustard. Right, I should say also that here I've been talking about the basic T statistics and the maximum of these statistics, but now we find that and we're not the only ones. Of course, that this statistic is very conservative, even though you want to control for the familywise error rate. People also move to the FDR. The false discovery rate, which is a bit more which responds a bit better to the intuition you have in your data. Probably, and also there is some progress that needs to be done to better estimates the covariance you have in space between the voxels, because this covariance is not diagonal for sure and also there is a great deal in trying to do statistics at the cluster level, we don't expect to detect 11 millimeter cube of activity, especially with this kind of modality where the spatial resolution from the instrument and inverse modeling. Is more at the order of a few centimeters square. So rather than applying these basic statistics at the voxel level, we can do that at the cluster level. And even better I'm sure. I had just one last question at the beginning. Considering the force, yes. Applying something like this using. This would make the best out of both well smoothing it something we have done. Also, if I remember correctly in the paper here, CDM stands for the current density Maps, so we have been testing whether by smoothing or not, these are Maps would improve the detection and the right. And you see that indeed when you apply the random field method you have a better you come closer to the 5% objective you had. Rather than not smoothing. But for the permutation, it doesn't make any difference apparently. It doesn't make any difference because the model you have doesn't. Well, it's a model that doesn't is not built on this covariance. I mean the covariance of the data that you you can model using the. You can enforce using a smoothing in space. Should be included in the permutation scheme maybe? Or the tests you do. And this is something that needs to be developed for sure. You mean that your Monte Carlo should be more educated? Yes, yeah, yes. Day prior or right? Oh yes. Your your take home message with the side with Roman no not.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Yeah yeah, yeah. So the figure is not very clear, but each column has to be read separately. The first column is when you apply them, you statistic you don't normalize by the standard deviation at every voxel. Just to illustrate that even though everything could be normal everywhere, you might end up having having a different variance. And look, you can still control for the familywise error rate. At the group level, in terms of space, but still have a very nonhomogenous error rate at the voxel level, because the variance is not controlled. So applying smoothing helps you control for the variance. But it doesn't help you control from the normal distribution of your normal distribution of your measures at the voxel level. So if you use these parametric models based on random fields, you might have things that indeed are controlled in terms of variance at every voxel level, but with no guarantee that everything is normally distributed, of course. And you end up committing errors at the voxel level even though you control for the familywise error rate, because just the distribution is not normal everywhere. Learning transition Nope. Nope. The transition. I thought that you were in some sense learning the dependencies in time and space. We would love to do that. No, no, it's not impossible. It's a matter of a more work that has to be done. And it is definitely something we try to try to do, and we want to do yes. Unlike you I'm doing, it's like your sister normalizing the footballs and slight learning more and more as the accurate approximations of this transition distribution. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But usually we have. Yeah, it's definitely something you need to do an, which would be a plus for the accuracy of the test and the Imagine 80 of the test you do at the voxel level like on the right side. Here what we suggest using a.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
The method 2 here. Well, it's it's to move from the statistics to the estimation of the probability distribution of the maximum at every single spot. So you need a lot of samples of free samples to learn the distribution of the maximum of the maximum at every at every spot you need to do permutations on the permutations. If I miss some extra resampling, which in practice is not doable. If you use even a cluster of. Of computers so, but this is done without knowing anything about the covariance in space. An in time of your data. And but we could include maybe in a Bayesian framework. I don't know some knowledge or even some some acquired knowledge, some learning on the covariance of the activity. Given the estimator you have the current, because remember, we don't measure the current directly, they come from an inverse model we apply. And this inverse model induces some correlation in space between voxels. For sure it's like a telescope you take, which is not perfect. This carpet has a special resolution and you take a more expensive telescope and you have a better resolution, so it's like the inverse models we have. Some are simple, some more sophisticated, but what we should include in the test is the intrinsic spatial correlation that is applied. The kind of bias in a special correlation which is imposed by the inverse model. We have this fighting and one in solving this problem, yeah? Having said flat level in reference level something. That's right, yes, yes question is why not doing this? Remember level, I mean with that before. Yeah. The thing is that this correlation might not be a uniform across space. It depends on the depth, like the deeper you go into the brain, the program, the special resolution you have and greater sensitivity to noise. Also, because the signals, the source of the signals go. They move away from the sensors, so the sensitivity to noise is not uniform in them.
