Hello everyone, my name is Jacob Ricky and today I am presenting how to implement some community radio principles on the person aboard. I will shortly present the versatile sensor node platform. The CC 1101, the CC-2500 transceivers and and at the end I will show the measurement setup and the results. We use the CC 1101 transceiver for spectrum sensing. Distance silver covers all the ice and frequency bands below the sub giga Hertz. It offers excellent receiver sensitivity. It has programmable output power up to 12 DBM and with different modulation settings we can achieve data rates from zero point 6 to 600 kilobits per say. Saint the CC-2500 is a pin compatible transceiver. It can be programmed with work with power, so up to 1TB M and we can say that away from 1.2 kilobits to 500K. For older ranges from 387 to 928 megahertz. We see that at the interesting working range. In Matlab we created a GUI in which we select the frequency sweep range. We have to take into account the channel bandwidth and the channel spacing. With that on the channel bandwidth and hear the channel spacing. Spends on the demo delaughter settings and we have to set the data rate of the transceiver as high as possible to have this time. And then also time T2 that this. 1st for the 868 ice and bent. The wireless medium is a limited resource which is shared among many users, and it requires regulated usage. The transmission of radio waves is regulated by national and international authorities. Besides spectrum sensing, quick and use it as a secondary user, which can adapt to primary user. Spectrum sensing is performed locali on each version aboard. We will have to introduce a cognitive channel and make the network centrally coordinated. Then another application would be to make a spatial temporal map of the spectrum of kupasi. We can sense the spectrum and store it. YouTube population of new Wireless Technologies and decreasing frequency demands the license spectrum for exclusive use became a scare resource. However, measurement results show that only 15 to 85% of the licensing of the assigned spectrum bent up to three Giga Hertz is actually utilized and this motivates the concepts of dynamic spectrum access and cognitive radio. The power is still limited to 10 milliwatts, and the duty cycle to 10%. This band is appropriate for long range long range communications, but of the cost of reduced data rate, the next band is on 868 megahertz in Europe and 950 megahertz in the United States. This is some band offers medium ranges and data rates. The most widely used Isom band is on 2.4 giga Hertz. In the US, it is limited to one Blvd and. Can also go one to one vote for special. This benthem offers high bandwidth and sufficient data communication range. Many Commercial Code, devices, activities and microwave ovens. And to achieve existence and spectrum sharing among all these those devices which operate in the same is some event we have to apply to obtain knowledge of the wireless medium. By means of spectrum sensing. In our case we used energy detection which was based on the received signal strength indication, which is the estimation of the. So if you want to make a spectrum sensing with this method. We have to make a frequency sweep through more channels. It has 512 kilobytes of Flash, 64 kilobytes of RAM. Many interfaces such USB, SD card, isquare, CSP, UART interface and many general purpose pins. Two models on chip count the CC 1101 ANSI C2500 on the expansion model we have Ethernet and GPRS connectivity.