[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon everybody. My name is Abbas Imean. I have done this with the collaboration of Alan Fern and Shirley Fernatt. We're going to New York City.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So our work is based on the Bayesian optimization framework, So what space optimization, the goal in Bayesian optimization is to maximize an unknown function by running a small set of experiment. So here is the general procedure of Bayesian optimization. Suppose we have a set of current experiments instead of current observation of the function. Then, based on the current observation and the prior and assumed prior rebuild, the precision model of the functions. Then based on the posterior model we select one or more new experiments to be run in the labs. The result of those experiments are then added to the observations and these procedures is repeated until we meet some stopping criteria. Bayesian optimization algorithms are widely used in experimental design applications and most of the reason for can most of the works and. May research in this area mainly focus on selecting the experiments, and they usually ignore some practical issues in real applications which motivate or work.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So we extend the basic Bayesian optimization frameworks in the number of ways. First, we assume there are L available labs which allows us to run up to L Concurrent experiment. 2nd, we assumed that arm the time each experiment takes, which has been shown by the green bar in the figure, is a stochastic and follows a fixed distribution which is given. This distribution can usually be obtaining practice easily. In addition, we have an experimental budget which allows us to ask a total number of N experiments. Finally, we must return the result within Time Horizon Edge, which means any experiment. That does not finish by the time edge cannot be considered. So given those constraints, the problem is that we need to schedule when to start new experiments and which ones to start. Our work is mainly focused on the scheduling part, which we want to decide when to start new experiment and how many experiments we want to start at each time.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So there are two challenging and two different objective that we would like to satisfy. First we would like to use up all experimental budget, which means we would like to finish all an experiment within Time Horizon Edge with high probability. Another hand when we select each experiment we would like to have as many compete experiments as possible to maximize the information we use to select the experiment. Unfortunately, these two objectives are in conflict with each other. For example, as we see in the left figure, if we want to maximize the probability of finishing our experiment within Time Horizon, we always prefer to use all elapse throughout the experiments. This maximize the concurrency of running the experiments. In contrast, in the right side, as you can see, if we want to maximize the information we used to select each experiment, we always prefer to run only if an experiment at the time, which means always wait for the running experiment to finish before making the next decision. The challenging part is to manage this tradeoff between these two conflicting objectives. So we present both online and offline scheduling algorithm that effectively achieves this tradeoff. So please come to our poster to find out more about our work and the solution we present. Thank you so much.
