I will describe first motivated interest towards Manning Network data and then it resigned from arising problems and present some implications coming from the problem so and. Application also concerns other areas of research shows such as productive and semi supervised learning and also collective influence. In the second part, which will be tomorrow, not today. So we will see choose different parts of this litigation. For example, intersection inclusion at the agency and so on. Here we have papers and some papers are in the area of machine learning. Other papers are in the area of statistics and for some papers we don't know which is the area which is the area of research. Details, but there are also other prediction tasks. Then we have one too. But there are also other tasks, for example entity resolution. Maybe there are two authors with similar names and we want to check if they are the same person or not. This given a user this in the context of social networks, is given a user. The problem mining network data is explored. For example here to cluster distributed sensor network are on the basis of the behavior. Also there are we have done also some work about relational Manning the application of original mining techniques for discovering changes involving networks. Across networking you we train our model on a network which is complete and we apply this model to a completely different network and these are related to the setting that Paolo Frasconi mentioned. The main assumptions that we understood that we can we can be laughed at that. That's about the longevity of any decent connection and symmetry symmetry of connection. Networks are at their agility, can be in, the entities, can be in the connections and there are. And also connections can be described by several attributes and. Note that is actually the set of nodes which are directly linked to that node. And the yellow one of the independent variables. So in cross correlation, the response variable, the value over the response variable depends on the value of independent variables enabled. While the auto correlation properly speaking can be exploited only in within network inference, not in across networking times. So they are connected somehow and the value of the reference variable here depends on the independent variables in the neighborhood. It comes from the topless first law of geography, which says that Queen geography everything is related to everything. Everything else but nearby things are more ready than this somethings. Specifically network, so there is your monthly principle which says that the tendency of nodes with similar values, which says that there is a tendency of loads with similar values to be linked with each other. So we have a set of objects of 1 type A set of objects of another type and two different sets and they are representing according to contributor and the relational correlation measures the correlation between value sort of single attribute on one the first sector and the value of another attribute on another set. Entities here our web pages and they're connected. Well, we work on the same attribute and justice, so the same attribute on the sector of objects and same attribute on the set of objects being. OK, it is important to say that this correlation does not necessarily mean connection, so things can be connected, but you can also do not represent any information they are not connected correlated, let's say so if they're connected, maybe they are also correlated or not. Again, the different class of methods is required to account for this phenomenon within network correlation. Is the classical algorithm for induction of koppelmann. But that's what we are doing. You need to take into account the additional issues first. It is very difficult to understand what is training and what is taxable, so you cannot easily split training and testing examples because the network is given at the beginning. The second problem is that predictions cannot be performed independently. Here there are movies that are studios and actors and also the connections are better genius. People see that transactive transacting inference exactly there is a mechanism from particular to particular and transductive inference. If two points X1 and X2 in identity religion come close then so should be the corresponding outputs. Let's now to find the connection between transductive and semi supervised learning with within network learning well. Says that as we said before, that the two connected nodes are somehow similar and interactive. Here we have the same type of entities hijackers in the attack of September 11 I jackets and the connections represent the different genus and the represent the Contacts, meetings, activities and so on.