[0.0s - 29.0s]
You were still adjusting to the time schedule early this morning. Let me say again that I'm Andrew McCallum, the code program chair. Sam releases my other code, program chair and unfortunately his wife is in the hospital down. He was not able to be here and I'm sure he would appreciate a short email note of encouragement from all of you. Sam and I both decided that unlike last year, we wanted to have the award papers presented in a joint session that all of us could see as a way to both bring the community together and. To have them to avoid having them compete with other papers.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
It's been traditional in ICML to have two types of awards of best paper award and a best Student paper Award, and Sam and I decided together in conjunction with the International Machine Learning Society to add.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
New new Awards 2 ICM else roster which are 10 year best paper award for the best paper of ICM L 10 years ago or of some other code located conference at the time and a best Application, Paper award and so these are to celebrate and encourage our successful applications as well as to encourage us to think in long-term kinds of ways and to have a better appreciation for our history. And so this is the. The first time that we're having these awards, and we'll continue to have awards like this in the future.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
How were they selected the 10 year?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Best Paper Award was selected by a subcommittee led by Jude Shavlik, who was the program chair 10 years ago and Lianbo 2.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And the best application, sorry the best papers of all these three categories of this conference were selected by a subcommittee of the ACL 2008 senior Program Committee, subcommittee, chaired by Carlos Guestrin. They considered all of the papers that the reviewer is nominated for awards, plus the top third of papers by score. So they looked at a lot of papers. They read these in detail that extensive discussions by email and phone. There were several rounds of preliminary votes, followed by a consensus decision. And the authors were noted notified.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Imagine. In addition to the awards to the 2008 ICM Awards, in addition to the honor comes a cash award graciously supplied by Springer and the Machine Learning Journal. It's $1000 for each paper that has student authors divided evenly among those.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Student authors for each paper. Alright, and so the awards go to.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
For the 10 year best paper award to offer Blumenthal Mitchell for their paper combining labeled and unlabeled data with Co training.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And the other awards go to these people which will recognise individually when they come up to speak. But for now I'd like to turn things over to Jude Shavlik. So actually, let's see. So Tom Mitchell was away traveling over Imblum was going to be here, but his wife had her birthday overlapping with this time and he's going to be here tonight actually. So we might try to have some sort of recognition at tonight's poster session. But in his absence, Judas agreed to say just a few words about both the paper and its perspective. So I'll turn things over to you.
