We can repeat the error probability of Vanover E to the 100, which is pretty good. If there is a K fast, then what is the probability that it is colorful? There's a hash function in the family that colors this subset in a colorful way. Graph we have to find a set of connected components that containing at most K vertices, inducing at least M edges. So we have this connected components. OK, so this is the picture that you will see over and over again in this talk. In our application we will have a set of terminals with some meaning. So all of these objects somehow connected to T. And the figure might be misleading. We have in this talk we always have objects are going through these terminals and then we define given a solution as we define the shadow of the solution to be those vertices that cannot be reached from the terminals. OK, and then here is the technical result so. Kate has the probability that there's a minimum F transfers all such that the shadow of the transfers are discovered by the and the and new edge of the transfers. Is contained in this, so this is the edge edge version in on directed graph, so so if there's a minimum transfers are with at most K edges, then with some probability there's a minimum transfers all such that the shadow is covered by the and no edge of this transfer is contained in Z. In this particular problem we have the following two constraints. We don't have any bound on the number of. I just mentioned that there is a tool to the order of P algorithm that it uses a different technique. In fact, this is a sufficient condition as well. We show in the next slide that if every vertex is contained in a good cluster, then there's a partition into good class 'cause this is not obvious because there's good clusters can overlap, but it is true that there's a. So every vertex is contained in a good cluster. Then we carry plus X with X -- Y. It is still a good cluster because it has not more edges going out an smaller size and then every vertex is still covered by a good cluster and. So you can obviously do this in entered OK, but we want to do this in. OK, So what we have to do is to check whether a given vertex is in a good cluster. So what we what we have to hit with? We can involve this theorem. So in our setting now we have a single Terminal V. Or the bad objects are going through the becausw order that objects are the trees of size. Maybe more than P versus 3 is having more than PvP vertices, and this algorithm computes asset Z such that with this probability there's an optimum solution as with these two properties. So we have these two properties that the shadow is covered by Z and new edge of S is contained in Z. Order or the edges of the solution are here. We can compute a set Z such that with some probability the following happens. If there's a path going inside the between the two vertices, we just added direct edge because we know that no vertex will be deleted here anyway, so we can, and this doesn't change the problem and after that. We can remove this said Z. That this doesn't make the problem an easier, and it doesn't make the problem any harder becausw, because by assumption we had a solution disjoint from Z, so this will not destroy this solution. And also because these weights are polynomial if we can guess this minimum weight. So from now on we are looking for a Hamiltonian cycle of wait, wait exactly, see under the additional assumption that there is a unique Hamiltonian cycle of weight exactly, see. What do we do so instead of looking for Hamiltonian cycles, if we look at cycle covers so cycle cover is a sub graph having a degree exactly 2 on each of the vertices, so it is a set of cycles. Reverse, but we are looking at color cycle cover so colored cycle cover each color each cycle is. Assigned to either the color of white or black. Obviously, each cycle cover with K components gives rise to two to the K colored cycle covers, because for each cycle you have a choice between two different colors. Another. Cycle cover with two components give rise to four different colored cycle covers. Cycle cover with three components gives that gives rise to 8 different colored cycle covers. On the other hand, if there's a unique batesia Hamiltonian cycle, then the number of such color cycle covers is not divisible by 4 cause because they have every cycle cover having more than one component gives rise to some number of which is divisible to four and this unique Hamiltonian cycle will give rise to exactly 2. Then if there's a Hamiltonian cycle done with some good probability, there's a unique Hamiltonian cycle with minimum weight. We try all possible weights and then we count the number of colored cycle covers with that weight.