And I'll give you a quick outline. I'm going to spend a few minutes talking about waves of innovation. Combinatorial innovation is the term that I use, and then I'm going to go into the heart of the talk, which is on computer mediated transactions and their implications for economics, and I think by extension for computer science and particularly artificial intelligence and at the end I'll say a few words about collaborative computing, so there's kind of two pieces of bread, and then there's the meat in the middle. As of this talk, OK, so we'll start with 3000 BC. So how do you manage to fulfill this contract of providing the olive oil and getting paid? They made little clay tokens called. So as a one to one correspondence, when all the barrels were loaded on had a pile of tokens on one side of the desk, sealed those up in a clay envelope, stamped it with the seal of of the harbor, and baked it, and it killed and handed this to the captain, the ship. And in fact one of the things that happened is they started scratching lines on the outside of these Bullock to indicate of the envelopes to indicate how many will I were inside and it is claimed by some archeologists that it was this activity which led to writing numbers. And you find these all over the Mediterranean at every shipwreck there were millions of bull eyes sitting at the bottom of the Mediterranean. So how do you ensure that the employees don't steal an the answer? In these transactions between the buyer and seller, an owner, and because you had the incorruptible cashier, you could support a much larger sized business. Remember the bad old days when you went to read and video you went into the video store. It's just that by moving to a revenue sharing arrangement you were able to get a more efficient way to facilitate the transactions. They'll keep the flavors they'll do the accounting, and then they'll do a revenue share arrangement. As soon as you can observe the speed or other aspects of the operation, the contract can be made more efficient. Online advertising, so this is a kind of nice story. The Advertiser wants to buy sales. He wants to buy conversions. He doesn't necessarily care about impressions, he's only into those impressions that extent that they translate the conversions. And if you can't do conversions with anyone's clicks which would be visits to the website so the publisher has impressions to sell. The Advertiser wants to buy clicks. Well, you notice the following that if we know the click through rate. Now other thing is a purchase can be linked back to click or impression and that makes the advertising accountable at least on his statistical basis. So you could look at the click through rate. So this allows you to set up a kind of assembly line for marketing and the record of transactions allows for optimization the buying process, so you can look at advertising effectiveness, which ads are effective in conveying an appropriate message to the buyer. The people cancel out purchase process. So waves of innovation, so we've seen this huge innovation on the web in the last 15 years. We've got all of these different applications and web pages, search engines, wikis, all sorts of online databases, etc. The idea is that every now and then you get a set of component technologies that come along, and these components can be combined and recombined to create new innovations. Which keywords perform best, what advertiser characteristics predict success? Once you have the data from the computer mediated transactions and can formulate a hypothesis about what the underlying process looks like, you can do controlled experimentation and I think it's not widely recognized that one of the reasons for Google's success is this experimentation and continuous improvement. You can look at performance measures and literally within a few days you can decide whether you've got sufficient lift from this new form of algorithm, say to deploy it at a general level. So you can make transactions optimized by individuals. Whether those are purchases on Amazon or searches on Google. And I think nobody really cares about the intended use of the data, which is a serve up more relevant search results, or more relevant ads. OK, so now advertising is just the beginning. But if you look at it, there's many other things that you could do. I think a wonderful story that Paul David tells. And on the other end, is connected to Waterfield, the shaft turns around. You could a lot of gears and fancy things with the. Then they put electric Motors on it. A great big electric motor. You could attach that on the side of the factory pretty much the same design and then people made miniaturized Motors. 'cause that's the way we've always done it, right? Because instead of carrying the object that was manufactured around from station to station were able to streamline the production process, arrange it in a logical way. You could put the machines where they were needed, not where they always had been. Challenge was to optimize the flow of physical product through the factory and now the challenge is to optimize the flow of ideas through the organization. OK, well this is all enabled by cloud computing. I guess this is kind of trivial slide for for this group, but the point is we've seen an evolution of computing with mainframes, network workstations, personal computers, and now cloud cloud computing where you can have the data sitting up there in the cloud you can access at any place at anytime on any device and allow any kind of sharing of responsibilities for viewing, editing, changing this document. Well, I claim it's because the component parts this time are all bits. And of course you never run out of email. These combinatorics of creating new applications and the result is you get this extremely rapid evolution and technological progress that we've seen in the last decade or so. So the barriers to entry for online businesses are falling fast. You can purchase space in a data center storage and demand development environment from Google, Amazon and many others, and so you can scale your business to meet customer growth and that pushes this combinatorial innovation to a new level. You've got cheap communication with email, web pages, wikis, voice over IP, wireless collaborative, computing, cloud computing, everything else. So in fact, the small organizations, because they're more flexible can actually take advantage of these capabilities in ways that the large organizations find difficult. So this opens doors to small businesses around the world. You can have a huge parallel innovation in technology and Commerce, and in my view this is really only the beginning, so there's many more opportunities to work out here. So take any buyer, take any seller these days there's a computer in the middle, and that's the computer mediated transactions of the title of the talk. It has a special interface. But basically it's a PC and if you look at web based transactions they connect to database, the recording, potentially an entire history of transactions. That's a more powerful kind of mediation, but it's functionally very similar now. In ways that I think are are not immediately apparent from the original motivation as to enforce new kinds of contracts to better align incentives to enable for data extraction and analysis. To enable controlled experimentation and to enable personalization and customization. I'll do X if you do. Why that's a contract. And I think I've we've all had that experience at one time or another, so here's a contract. Necessarily directly observable or observable only with a very high cost. This is a picture of Francesco de Marco Datini. The argument is that once you have the computer in there as an accountant, you can then re purpose it to do lots of different things, allows you to structure more lab contracts and prove it. How did how is Mediterranean shipping supported? The truck logistics and 1990s video stores in the 1990s and culminate with online advertising.