[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good morning. It gives me great pleasure to introduce today's invited Speaker, Hal Varian. How is the class of 94 professor at Berkeley in three different departments? The School of Information, High School of Business and the Department of Economics. He is also the founding Dean of the School of Information at Berkeley. And he's actually on leave. He's the chief economist at Google or position. He's held since 2002. At Google he's worked on advertising, auctions, econometrics, finance, corporate strategy, public policy and so forth, so I've really interesting guy. Yes, within four books, intermediate microeconomics, Microeconomics, analysis, which is actually one of the first equine books I ever read. His Co authored the book Information Rules, a strategic guide to the Network Economy. This was in 1999 and turned out to be very apropos. This is actually a book that Fortune magazine says is one of the 75 smartest strategy books of all time. Is also Co authored a book called the Economics of Information Technology and Introduction? Had received his bachelors that they might be in economics and Masters in math and a PhD in economics at Berkeley in 1973. He has taught at MIT, Stanford, Oxford, MI, etc. Yes, honorary doctorates from all of Finland and Carlsruhe, Germany, and he's been a regular columnist at New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and so forth. He won the Humboldt Prize. An Accenture says that he's number nine among the top 50 business intellectuals in the world. And the real reason we invited him, of course, is that there is no more a proper name for a speaker in an AI conference than hell. So let's welcome our invited speaker, Hella Varia. Well, thank you for that very nice introduction. I've had a similar experience at the statistics conference with the thought that variance was a good name for a speaker. As I like to say, I may be a variant, but I'm not a deviant. So OK, so I want to talk about computer mediated transactions an I want to warn you up front. This is a grey indivision sort of talk. It's not exactly a technical talk, although there is a lot of. Technical modeling that could go on behind.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The scenes. And I'll give you a quick outline. I'm going to spend a few minutes talking about waves of innovation. Combinatorial innovation is the term that I use, and then I'm going to go into the heart of the talk, which is on computer mediated transactions and their implications for economics, and I think by extension for computer science and particularly artificial intelligence and at the end I'll say a few words about collaborative computing, so there's kind of two pieces of bread, and then there's the meat in the middle.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So waves of innovation, so we've seen this huge innovation on the web in the last 15 years. We've got all of these different applications and web pages, search engines, wikis, all sorts of online databases, etc. And the first question you want to ask is why is there been so much innovation and why is it been so rapid? So my answer to that is that this is an example of what you might call combinatorial innovation, or some economists have referred to it as recombinant growth. The idea is that every now and then you get a set of component technologies that come along, and these components can be combined and recombined to create new innovations. So a classic example is interchangeable mechanical parts. What happened there in the late 1700s as Thomas Jefferson took a trip to France, he was stocking the White House wine cellar, but along the way he went to do a little industrial espionage and saw that French gunsmiths were so skilled that they could manufacture guns where the parts could be interchanged, which was a phenomenal accomplishment. He came back to the United States and said we should be able to do this. The problem was they really didn't have sufficient skilled workers because it was all the riff raff that immigrated to the US. The skilled workers who had good jobs stayed in Europe, so they started a program to try to create mechanical parts. There was a Springfield Armory where this was basically the ARPA grand challenge at that time, and eventually they were able to accomplish, you know, adequate. Adequate, exchangeable parts. There's the famous story of Eli Whitney that took 12 muskets to the White House. Dipas disassembled, departs, invited the participants to choose one part from each pile, and it was able to reassemble these parts into a working musket. So that was viewed as a huge accomplishment. And when you actually look at the history over the whole course of the 1800s, there were refinements in creating these components. Now these components were then the wheels, the pulleys, the gears, shafts to change all of the mechanical parts that we're. Familiar with were then the building block for a lot of new innovation. First big One was a sewing machine and Secondly there was washing machines. Bicycles towards the end of the century and then of course the automobile at the pretty much the end of the 1800s. Beginning in the 1900s, the gasoline engine technology was a similar component that could be used to build cars, motorcycles, tractors, trucks, all sorts of other. Innovative devices you think about what the Wright brothers did as they took the gasoline engine is 1 component bicycle technology is another component in kite technology is 1/3 component and combine these to create a totally new innovation. Well, there's been many other ways we're familiar with integrated circuits from the 60s and 70s, and now of course, these are the ultimate component in some sense. There are thousands of integrated circuits in this room that is served as building blocks for a number of new devices and starting, I would say roughly in 1995 you can pick your starting point, but roughly around 1995 we think about the Internet is taking off and then the web shortly after. In these examples that I've cited up until the last one, at least, typically these these combinatorial innovation rounds take decades or even. Or even a century in the case of mechanical parts.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Play itself out, but we've seen the web and the Internet have this phenomenally rapid evolution. Why is that? Well, I claim it's because the component parts this time are all bits. They're just protocols or things that can be sent around the world at the touch of a button. They can be combined and recombined to create new innovations an as I'm sure this audience in particular knows a lot of application development these days is kind of like tinker toys, where your product. Plugging in pre existing components to create new innovations so you never have a parts shortage. You may run out of wheels and gears and pulleys but you never run out of HTML. And of course you never run out of email. And you're able to take because there's no material constraints and really no constraints in terms of any kind of time to manufacture inventory delivery problems, anything else, you can have a huge number of innovators working in parallel to work through these. These combinatorics of creating new applications and the result is you get this extremely rapid evolution and technological progress that we've seen in the last decade or so. So the question I want to talk about today is the implications of this kind of of combinatorial innovation for Commerce and I want to focus on one observation, which I think is so trivial and obvious. It's barely men.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And and that's the idea that there's a computer in the middle of every economic transaction. So take any buyer, take any seller these days there's a computer in the middle, and that's the computer mediated transactions of the title of the talk. Even a cash register these days is just a PC. Look at a cash register to Intel Motherboard. It's probably running a Microsoft operating system and you've got an application that's running on top of it. It has a special interface. This keyboard and the pricing and so on. But basically it's a PC and if you look at web based transactions they connect to database, the recording, potentially an entire history of transactions. That's a more powerful kind of mediation, but it's functionally very similar now. The original tent and putting. These computers in the middle of the transaction transactions was very mundane. It was just account things. It was just to be an accountant. But the fact that you have that computer there means that you can do lots of other interesting things. On top of that original accounting purpose. So let's take an example. I'm sure that many of you flew to this conference, and if you did, you had a computer mediated interaction with some online reservation system. Of course, the online reservation systems that were put in place were put there merely to manage the complexity of figuring out the routing and the scheduling and availability of airplay of. Air travel back in the 60s and 70s. But then, once you're there, they opened up all sorts of new and interesting possibilities like the amazing system of yield management that we know and love where they were able to do this. Price discrimination of various means that was previously totally infeasible be completely infeasible without having that computer mediation. So even though that wasn't the original tent that was something that was a byproduct of the ability availability of these computer mediated transactions, you still managed to reach. Maybe, I mean, it's a debatable. Point, but perhaps a more eficient way of allocating resources.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, so the coming back to the outline. I'm going to talk about five different ways that these computer mediated transactions can be utilized. In ways that I think are are not immediately apparent from the original motivation as to enforce new kinds of contracts to better align incentives to enable for data extraction and analysis. To enable controlled experimentation and to enable personalization and customization. And maybe there are more. These are just a list I've come up with, so if you have more to add let me know after the talk.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, so we'll start with contracts 'cause in many ways that's the most interesting and maybe the most profound. Contracts fundamental to Commerce. So what does it say? I'll do X if you do. Why that's a contract. So if you give me a latte I will give you $2. Of course there is a problem in monitoring those contracts because maybe you hand me the latte and I just run off. Or maybe I ask for this latte for $2 and you give me some undrinkable concoction. There is a nice story of Abraham Lincoln who was handed a drink. He took a sip and said if this is tea, please bring me coffee. If this is coffee, please bring me tea. And I think I've we've all had that experience at one time or another, so here's a contract. The contract is. I'll do executed why there's a problem in monitoring the contract, and sometimes the performance is directly observable, but sometimes it's not. Or it's observed just with the lag, or it may be that it's extremely difficult to observe. And of course, what's observable depends on the technology that's available. So once you've got the computers in the middle of the transactions, they can observe things that end with previously were not. Necessarily directly observable or observable only with a very high cost. So historically these advances in technology for monitoring, measurement, accounting have enabled different kinds of transactions that were not available before the advent of that technology. An nowadays computers have moved some of these historical examples to a whole new level. Well, I want to talk a little bit about the history because I think talking about the prior technology gives you a. Better viewpoint on the new.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Technology so. This is a picture of Francesco de Marco Datini. He's a famous accountant. Now you might not know there was such a thing as a famous account, but this guy invented the letter of credit and did lots of establishment of accounting standards in the sort of pre Renaissance Florence. He's actually the subject of a book called The Merchant of Prato, which is kind of a fun read. The argument is that once you have the computer in there as an accountant, you can then re purpose it to do lots of different things, allows you to structure more lab contracts and prove it.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Conomique efficiency, so after Teenie had only had a laptop, he would have been able to make even more innovations in account.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So. I'm going to give you some examples. I'm going to start at the beginning 3000 BC and work my way up to the present. How did how is Mediterranean shipping supported? The advent of office machinery in the late 1800s. The truck logistics and 1990s video stores in the 1990s and culminate with online advertising. I don't mean to suggest that online advertising is the peak of all economic progress is just one that I happen to know a little bit about and serves as a nice example for the perp.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
As of this talk, OK, so we'll start with 3000 BC. Here's the problem. You want to ship some olive oil from one port to another port. There's no law to speak of. Everybody is illiterate. Everybody's innumerate. So how do you manage to fulfill this contract of providing the olive oil and getting paid? So they had a very very clever solution. I think this is a really ingenious solution. They made little clay tokens called.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
July. And I'll show you a picture here. There's a bull I look like for these little.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Play tokens. And they had a pile of them on the desk of the harbormaster, and every time a barrel of olive oil went on to the ship, he moved a token from one side of the desk to another. So as a one to one correspondence, when all the barrels were loaded on had a pile of tokens on one side of the desk, sealed those up in a clay envelope, stamped it with the seal of of the harbor, and baked it, and it killed and handed this to the captain, the ship. So that was essentially the bill of lading. And the captain took the olive oil, hopefully delivered it to the other port, as each barrel was taken off the ship so they broke open the clay envelope. As each barrel was taken off the ship, a token was moved from one side of the desk to the other, an if the number of tokens that were moved was equal to the number of barrels that were taken off, everybody was happy. The contract was fulfilled and they got paid. If there was a deficit, well, they had some adjustment to the contract. So here is a technology for monitoring that. Contract very primitive technology from our point of view, but enabled Commerce all over the Mediterranean that wouldn't have been possible without some sort of accounting mechanism. And in fact one of the things that happened is they started scratching lines on the outside of these Bullock to indicate of the envelopes to indicate how many will I were inside and it is claimed by some archeologists that it was this activity which led to writing numbers. And civil.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Station. So here's a little picture of them. Each of these Bulli represents a different product. I think the one up in the upper left hand quarters amfora for wine, the one either the top or the bottom one in the middle is example of a sheepskin. And so on. And you find these all over the Mediterranean at every shipwreck there were millions of bull eyes sitting at the bottom of the Mediterranean. Because they were such a useful mechanism for for trade. So Commerce was able to start because you had this method of observing transactions that allowed you to create the contracts that made trade possible.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, so let's move forward about. 4000 years and look at. Office equipment. So you have a problem when firms get too big, you have to start employing people that are outside the family, and if you employ people with outside the family of a problem with trust. So how do you ensure that the employees don't steal an the answer? According to James Ritty and John Birch, was you create a mechanical device known as a cash register. In fact original name for it was the incorruptible cashier. I love that name and it had two innovations. One is when you open the cash drawer of Bell Ring coaching and that's where the manager, the owner of the operation, could keep an eye on the cash register whenever he heard that belt it was kind of a Pavlovian response. I guess you hear the Bell. Take a look and see what's going on. The other thing it had in it was paper tape and the paper tape recorded the transactions that were made kind of like a Turing machine I guess only it only was a right only Turing machine. Recorded the transactions in the paper tape at the end of the day, the owner of the retail stab Lish would sit down and go over the tape. Compare the record of the transactions to the amount of money that was in the cash drawer at the beginning and end, and reconcile his reports so it was a huge innovation and allowed retail organizations to grow much more than they are able to before. Because you were able to economize on this trust relationship, you had the incorruptible cashier which was the mediator. In these transactions between the buyer and seller, an owner, and because you had the incorruptible cashier, you could support a much larger sized business. So this is what enabled retailing to become a chain operation. And if you look in the 90s. We had a somewhat similar history with vehicular monitoring systems. When you go out and see those semis rolling down the highway, they all have a computer in an. Nowadays most of them have a satellite receiver on it, and those were put in place originally to improve logistics. For usual operations, research sort of models were able to route the trucks to where they were needed. But once you have that capability for logistics, you also have this phenomenal capability for monitoring activity. So prior to the installation of the vehicle are monitoring systems. It was not uncommon to see various kinds of scams where one trucker would fill up his buddies tank and charge it to the company credit card and maybe take a side payment along with it. Well, as soon as she had the vehicular monitoring system it could monitor the mileage that the trucker was receiving. It could monitor the route. And make sure that in fact the contract between the employer and employee was performed in the manner that was intended to be performed. So you had a big improvement in let's say non negligent non negligible improvement in operating expense as soon as these systems were installed and recently we've seen the advent of vehicle or monitor systems and rental cars. Now people have different attitudes towards this, but I'll give you. I'll give you 1 view on it. Suppose that you want to rent a car and the rental agency says, well, I want you to operate this car in a safe manner. You have to stay under the speed limit. And the renter says, yeah signs a form goes off. Well, he has. He's not observable at this point. He has no real reason to honor that commitment to stay under the speed limit. And so there's a certain accident rate that results from that now. If he drove slower then there would be fewer accidents. Let us suppose an if there are fewer accidents, then the rental car system could charge a lower rate because it would have a lower insurance bill. The problem is you can enforce that contract because there's no observe ability. So what do you do? You put a transponder in the trunk and as soon as you have a transponder in the trunk then it can monitor the activity of the driver and you can enforce the contract that potentially makes everybody better off. Because I might be willing to drive slower if I had a lower rate, and if I had a lower rate, the insurer is willing to offer a lower rate. If I'm driving slower, so you just have to build some observe ability into that to make that contract feasable. And by the way, there is a big advantage to these transponders that I think was also on anticipated. They found out when they put the transponder transponder's in Boston. They found out the auto theft rate went down dramatically, even if only 2% of the cars had the transponder and the reason for this was. The cars could be traced once they were stolen and they were taken back to chop shops so they were all clustered together. So by tracing the cars you could bust up the shot of the chop shop even if there was a very small number of cars that actually had the transponder in it. So it was a big help in terms of reducing the rate of auto theft. Steve Levitt has a paper on this if you want to look at it.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Video store rentals. This is a nice one. I don't know. This audience is a little young, but some of you probably read it. Remember the bad old days when you went to read and video you went into the video store. You wanted to rent the latest release and it was gone, right? It was so popular. No one could rent it. So then one day it all changed, the sign appeared. They said guaranteed in stock and he went in instead of just four or five copies of the latest release or none. There would be a whole shelf for copies of the latest release of the video. So what changed? How did it change from the old days to the new days? Well, it was a change in contractual form. Because in the original model, video stores, the store owner had to buy the video. They were expensive. $50.00 for a video so they would buy as few as possible and so they would rent them out. Everybody who went to the store after the first 45 or rented out they had to wait weeks until it became available. But then one of the bright distributors got an idea. He says instead of selling the video to the store, will give you the video. And you run it out and every time you run out a copy, you give us a dollar. So they switched from a purchase sale arrangement to a revenue sharing arrangement and the revenue sharing arrangement was far more efficient because everybody was better off. The distributor is better off because they collected more of these dollars from the rental. The seller was better off because he had more rentals of movies people wanted. And of course, the consumers are better off because they were able to get the video in a timely manner. And of course, the video cost a very small amount to make an incremental copy copy of a videotape was a couple of dollars of a dieva DVD. It's even less. So there was no problem in terms of creating those copies. They were almost free. It's just that by moving to a revenue sharing arrangement you were able to get a more efficient way to facilitate the transactions. But of course, if you were supposed to give me a dollar every time you run a video, somebody has to count those rentals. And what did they do? Well, they had the scanner. They had the computer and they had a dial-up network. Actually, in those days where they would call up the central warehouse and indicate this is how many transactions took place at this particular location. And so you could make the transfer from the seller to the buyer or to the you could make their revenue sharing arrangement that was appropriate. And if you look at a lot of stores these days, are various kinds of revenue sharing arrangements that have been facilitated by the availability of the scanner equipment. So for example, in many stores you'll see separate freezer for the ice cream, and that's typically managed by the ice cream vendor. So be a single product. Dryers does this, and others where they'll stock it. They'll keep the flavors they'll do the accounting, and then they'll do a revenue share arrangement. At the time of the transaction, and the argument is that you get a higher quality product because the brand owner is responsible for making the right flavors available and keeping the product fresh and doing all these things. That gives him because he has a strong incentive now to do this, a stronger incentive possibly than a manufacturer that the operator of the store.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
OK and rental cars. This is example I already mentioned. As soon as you can observe the speed or other aspects of the operation, the contract can be made more efficient.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Online advertising, so this is a kind of nice story. I think there's a. Basic misalignment in interest between the publisher of content and the advertiser 'cause? What is the publisher got to sell? What the publisher has a cell is space on a page. Publisher has an ad impression to sell as you're producing a page of search results. In the case of Google, you're producing a page of content. In the case of the New York Times and on that space you have some of the users attention, so you can put up a commercial message, an advertisement. Well, what does he advertise? Her want to buy with? The Advertiser wants to buy sales. He wants to buy conversions. He doesn't necessarily care about impressions, he's only into those impressions that extent that they translate the conversions. And if you can't do conversions with anyone's clicks which would be visits to the website so the publisher has impressions to sell. The Advertiser wants to buy clicks. So how do you align incentives in this market? Well, you notice the following that if we know the click through rate. If the intermediary can measure the probability that the ad will be clicked conditional on the impression that in fact you can charge one side for impressions and charge the other side for clicks, so it's kind of nice because you've got this this exchange rate, which is the clicks per impression. Now that's a big statistical machine learning problem because you want to observe a lot of impressions. You want to look at the clicks that occur and you want to try to predict. How many clicks particular impression will get to extent that you can do that except in an acceptable way? Then you can actually satisfy both sides of the market. You can sell impressions and I can buy clicks and of course more generally, you could sell impressions and I could buy conversions. So you could do revenue sharing at the time of the conversion. Whenever you have a conversion or an expected conversion, you can make the monetary transfer. Furthermore, there's another layer of incentive alignment. In here you can take an intermediary like Google and the publisher and the intermediary can share revenue at the time of click, so every time an ad is clicked you know you see those little boxes that, say, ads by Google will win an ad in those boxes, click, there's a revenue share between the publisher with the content and the intermediary. Google is providing the ad service and of course the advertiser is making that. Payment so you have this somewhat complicated interaction that really would be completely infeasible without having a relatively sophisticated computing and accounting system, so you were able to manage that business model because you have this computer mediated transaction. And of course that wasn't the intent of the computer mediated transaction originally. The reason was computer mediated was because people wanted to provide information people wanted to read information well. Once you have the computer in the middle, you can enable this kind of alignment. Of incentives that I'm referring to.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Now other thing is a purchase can be linked back to click or impression and that makes the advertising accountable at least on his statistical basis. So you could look at the click through rate. You can look at the conversion rate, how many of those clicks actually convert actually result in a transaction and so you can run experiments with different treatments to see what works. So you've aligned incentives by being able to trace back the ad impression to the ad click and the ad click. To the ad conversion and so now you can figure out what is effective in making those transactions actually work so you know there's a famous line from JP Wanamaker to Philadelphia. Retailer who said half of my advertising budget is wasted. I just don't know which half. Well now you can find out which half because you can actually trace through the entire chain of the transaction.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So this allows you to set up a kind of assembly line for marketing and the record of transactions allows for optimization the buying process, so you can look at advertising effectiveness, which ads are effective in conveying an appropriate message to the buyer. You can debug the purchase process, where is it? The people cancel out purchase process. You can estimate marketing relationships and so on, and then you can fine tune each of those components of that process on a piece by piece basis. And so I called this an assembly line for marketing and it is something like an assembly line for marketing, because you're able to break the transaction down the big transaction down into a number of components and then optimize those components on a piece by piece basis. So everybody is familiar with the assembly line from Henry Ford in 1909. Cursor that was in Venice in the 14th century where they were able to build Gallia Day, which was phenomenal by setting up an assembly line in the Arsenal a that allowed them to not have a standing Navy they could basically build the Navy as needed, which gave them a tremendous boost in productivity. 'cause if you don't have to maintain the standing Navy, you can use the ships for Commerce, which is of course much. Better thing to do.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
There's a little picture of the assembly line and the Venetian.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Gallys alright, I'm going to come back to assembly lines in a minute. But I want to continue with my list of topics about what you can do with computer mediated transactions. One thing you do is you can do data mining an again in this audience. That's I'm sure everybody is from everything that you can ask questions like, which converts better. Which is more likely to result in a sale, the keyword diamand or the keyword diamondz the plural. And it turns out the answer is the plural, because if your kid is doing a high school science project on forms of Carbon Hill, search for diamond. If you're thinking about having a kid, maybe if you're thinking about getting engaged, then you'll go look for diamonds so he can do all sorts of analysis about how clicks vary over time of day. Which keywords perform best, what advertiser characteristics predict success? You build predictive models, looking at correlations. You can try to build causal models. Where you can formulate hypothesis about the actual causality, lots of people have talked about the data mining capabilities and what that brings to business and Commerce, but I think they've missed a key point. The data mining or pattern discovery in the data is only the first stage. The next stage is actually to do.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Station, so there's one of our fine experimentals from Google Labs. Once you have the data from the computer mediated transactions and can formulate a hypothesis about what the underlying process looks like, you can do controlled experimentation and I think it's not widely recognized that one of the reasons for Google's success is this experimentation and continuous improvement. Because we built systems that allow you to do literally hundreds of experiments at any one time, both on the search side and the monetization side. We can change the user interface. You can change the underlying algorithm for ranking search results or ads. You can look at performance measures and literally within a few days you can decide whether you've got sufficient lift from this new form of algorithm, say to deploy it at a general level. So my claim is that you should make experimentation available in every web environment now. This requires a lot of discipline, quite a lot of discipline because the usual problem is you're trying to get the application out the door. And just to work in the baseline case, but if you spend those extra week or month to be able to develop an out an application that actually allows you to vary the underlying parameters, or even the underlying design, then you can be able to experimentation into the product. And as soon as you have experimentation into the product, you can do this continual improvement so some of you may remember in the 1980s there was a lot of talk. From Japan, about Kaizen. So Guy said it was a process of continuous improvement of the manufacturing capability. Will here you can do continuous improvement on the product so it's quite remarkable this is a really interesting thing about Web 2.0. The product that you have available, the website or the application can be changed in real time. You could measure the performance and the interaction in real time and you can continuously improve the product in a way that's impossible with physical products. Right? Because as soon as you have a physical product it's frozen for some period of time and making changes in the product to see how users react is extremely difficult, can be done only on an occasional basis. We're seeing to do it continuously in the case of a web based product. So experimentation is critical because when you look at business it comes down to making decisions either using data or using hippos. So what's a hippo? Hippo is a highly paid person's opinion. And by the way, this term I should point out that I first saw it coming from Microsoft. It's but it's a problem in every business. You don't want highly paid people sitting around debating whether an ad background should be yellow or blue. As pointless, what they should be doing is saying here's this decision we have to make. What's the right experiment to run? Go run the experiment and then let's make the decision. So data versus Hippo and data is going to win out every time.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Customization and personalization. So you can make transactions optimized by individuals. Whether those are purchases on Amazon or searches on Google. And of course, as soon as you start getting into personalization and customization, you end up with a lot of issues about privacy because you end up with the more I know about you, the better service I can provide to you. I provide very detailed information to my lawyer, my accountant, my tailor, my, you know, all these different. My banker, all these different people that I deal with. And of course I'm willing to provide that information because I have a. Level of trust, and because they're going to give me better service because of having that personalized information available. And I think the same thing is true online that clearly you can get a higher level of service if it's customized and optimized for you. And I think nobody really cares about the intended use of the data, which is a serve up more relevant search results, or more relevant ads. Everybody I think would agree that's a good idea. It's not the intended use that's a issue in these public debates, but it's the unintended uses. So in my personal view, is not so much a privacy issue, is a security issue. How can you ensure that the uses to which the data is put? Our uses that in fact intended in the interest of. The parties of the transaction and don't end up being outside those interests, so it's a it's a discussion and debate that's going to go on for many years now that we've enabled this customization and personalization, and the question is, how do you get the benefits from that while minimizing the cost?

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK, so now advertising is just the beginning. I've been talking a lot about advertising. But if you look at it, there's many other things that you could do. Once you have these computer mediated transactions. It isn't just buyers and sellers. What I've been talking about up until now, but actually it's workers. I mean teams, groups of people who are working together to achieve some end the fact that their transactions and interactions or computer mediated allows you to have novel and potentially more efficient and more valuable forms of production. OK, so I want to talk a little bit about about that.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
At. And I'm going to go back to the story. I think a wonderful story that Paul David tells. He's a very noted economic historian about the productivity effects of electricity and what he observed is that electricity was deployed long before you saw growth in productivity was basically 20 years between the deployment of electric electricity, the deployment of electricity, and in fact the increased productivity in national income statistics. So let me give you a quick review of how factories work. So back in the 1800s, everything was powered by water wheels and you had a wheel on one end and you got a shaft that ran down the center of the factory. And if you look closely in this diagram, you'll see this shaft along here. And on the other end, is connected to Waterfield, the shaft turns around. Here's a pulley, and there's a belt that runs down to power that particular piece of equipment, so maybe that was a sorrel 8th, or a drill or whatever. But the machinery is all connected to that central shaft, and basically it had to be in a line. You could a lot of gears and fancy things with the. With the shaft you could put it in parallel lines and things like that, but you were restricted because of the basic design and they tended to cluster the machinery by the type as in this model so that all the saws would be in one place. All the drills would be another place all the ladies would be somewhere else, and so on.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Well then Steam comes along and they now had an increase in productivity 'cause they didn't have to have a water wheel and the water didn't freeze up or during the period when the water was present they could still run the shaft over steam engine. Basically, the factories in the same design. Then they put electric Motors on it. A great big electric motor. You could attach that on the side of the factory pretty much the same design and then people made miniaturized Motors. You could put a motor on each equipment, each piece of equipment. But they were still in a straight line with all the saws clustered together in the latest cluster together in the drills close together. 'cause that's the way we've always done it, right? That was away. You set up a factory. So it wasn't really until Henry Ford came along and said, well wait a minute instead of putting all the drills in one place in the sauce and the other place. Maybe we should set up this assembly line and put the tools where they were needed to manage the assembly process and so at that point they were able to get a much, much more efficient process. Because instead of carrying the object that was manufactured around from station to station were able to streamline the production process, arrange it in a logical way. And get this really huge burst of productivity in the early part of the 20th century that allowed for dramatic increases in Prada.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Activity and there's a picture of a factory. This is right before this is where they had these very complicated pulley arrangements. Just before they are able to do the miniaturisation and get the boons from the availability of electricity. So by the way, there's a kind of a nice story in Henry Ford's autobiography. He describes where he got the idea for the assembly line, and it was from the meat packing plants in Chicago because they would take the carcass of a cow and hanging up on a hook and one guy would carve off the steaks and push it down, and the other guy would carve off the Rose, then push it down. And the other guy would carve out something else. By the time it got to the end of the line, it was all butchered, and he thought, well, if you could disassemble a cow, you should be assembled a car. Just run it in reverse. And so you assembled the car by running the disassembly line in reverse. You could put the machines where they were needed, not where they always had been.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So. I claim were in that situation today because back in the early the turn of the century. Challenge was to optimize the flow of physical product through the factory and now the challenge is to optimize the flow of ideas through the organization. Now. Think about how we used to work, how we used to work. You would create a document and maybe a dictated to a stenographer and this did Agra for would take the document and type it up and it would come back and it will be marked up and will be sent to somebody else so they would mark up and maybe they'll be some cutting. Pasting another with these great technological innovations like white out and stick of notes that allowed you to improve this flow of documents through the group that was responsible for the production of the document and what happens next. Well we get computers. And what do we do when we do the same thing? We take this document in this doc file and we send it out by email to this party in that party. In this party goes around in some chain and comes back. And then you assemble the document. You're mimicking the physical flow of the document using the computer. Even though you didn't have to. Now of course, this is a very sophisticated audience, so everybody recognizes there are much better ways to do it, and in fact, coding was one of the places where we started to realize the efficiencies from changing the way production was handled much more effectively. It hasn't quite penetrated to the executive suites yet, but clearly there's a better way to do it. You want to master copy of the document or a master copy of the code? Want people to check changes in and out? You want to do? Version control? You want to do resolving? Conflicts in an automated way, and so you can do a much better production of this knowledge work. Whether it's computer code or whether it's a document, Word document, or whether it's a spreadsheet for that matter, because doing all of that version, tracking control, experimentation, and fine tuning easy collaboration. Of course, allows you to too. Create these ideas. Create this knowledge, work more effectively and allows for much smoother collaboration. Just like the assembly line allowed for more improved production in the turn of the century. Now, once you have that capability available, well now we no longer have the constraints of distance, so you can outsource a lot of components of this production, so I don't know if any of you have ever attended any of these these presentations by McKinsey, the consulting company. But you see, these wild PowerPoint shows with this very elaborate PowerPoint and I asked these guys what how do you get such beautiful PowerPoint? Well after two or three beers they told me the answer. They said well, we work on the presentation for the client. The night before, and then turn it into 8:00 o'clock. Go home the next morning. Sorry, we we turn it in, we ship it off to Bangalore at night. There's this whole team in Bangalore that works on beautifying the PowerPoint, getting the fonts all aligned, and the image is making a great. We come back in the next morning. There it is in her inbox and we can go present it to the clients. So what they've done is they've created this document assembly line and they've done. Presumably the ideas the outline. And shipped it off to Bangalore for filling in the details. It's a lot like what happens with animated cartoons where you create the storyboard in the US and then ship it off that. I want to get the everything else filled in. And it also allows for the creation of what I'm calling micro multinationals. I'm going to talk about this in more detail in a minute, but the basic idea is the cost of communication and computation. Are solo distributed communication and computation are so low that as smallest Group A group of six people can have a multinational business because they have access to technology that only the largest multinationals could afford. Even a decade ago, so you can have much, much smaller scale of operation and still be.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Global. OK, well this is all enabled by cloud computing. I guess this is kind of trivial slide for for this group, but the point is we've seen an evolution of computing with mainframes, network workstations, personal computers, and now cloud cloud computing where you can have the data sitting up there in the cloud you can access at any place at anytime on any device and allow any kind of sharing of responsibilities for viewing, editing, changing this document. And that facilitates both the teamwork, the maintenance of the document and the production of that particular kind of knowledge work. So again, we've seen this happen with code Repository's. You can do the same thing for everything else, and I think as organizations learn to do that, you're going to end up with an improvement in production of knowledge work. Just as we saw the improvement in production of mechanical work essenti.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
We go. So the barriers to entry for online businesses are falling fast. You can purchase space in a data center storage and demand development environment from Google, Amazon and many others, and so you can scale your business to meet customer growth and that pushes this combinatorial innovation to a new level. Because not only can you go out and get the off the shelf components to develop your innovation. You can also get the off the shelf components to deploy your innovation. Alright, so you've got this same kind of combinatorial innovation going on that I talked about earlier, but it doesn't stop at the invention. You can go out and purchase on a per use basis. The capability that you need to deploy your innovation on a global level, which gives you a huge burst. I believe of creative, active.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And in particular, you can get this micro multinationals I talked about earlier. You've got cheap communication with email, web pages, wikis, voice over IP, wireless collaborative, computing, cloud computing, everything else. There's no issue of distance and there's this minor inconvenience at time zones, but in a way the micro multinationals, the small six person twelve person 20 people groups. I don't mind staying up until 10:00 o'clock at night to communicate with their counterparts in Europe or in India. Or in Asia, it's much easier for them to do it. The entrepreneurs to do it than it is for the employees of the big multinational firm. So in fact, the small organizations, because they're more flexible can actually take advantage of these capabilities in ways that the large organizations find difficult. So this opens doors to small businesses around the world. You have access as a small and medium sized enterprises can have access to technology that only the largest firms could afford. A few years ago. And that means that businesses can be born international. You can have a huge parallel innovation in technology and Commerce, and in my view this is really only the beginning, so there's many more opportunities to work out here. The same forces that we saw historically or at work. But I think they've just been magnified to a much, much larger level, so I think I'll stop there. And I guess I can take a few questions, right? Yeah, OK, thank you. So we have microphones that are up in the middle of the aisles. And who will be the brave person who goes first there? There he is, OK? So who do you want to go first here? So the acoustics are terrible in here, so you'll have to speak loudly and clearly. OK, well being also from Northern California I was going to ask you where you could get a latte for $2. Then I realized you were from Google so you weren't used to paying for food. But actually your talk gave me a little bit of deja vu in the late 19 nine in late 1990s, about 10 years ago. There was a really big business wave in the burgeoning Internet business and something called exchanges where the value add was supposed to be exactly what you've been talking about. The value of the computer mediated transaction beyond simply doing the transaction, and famous analysts like Chuck Smith, who is now the President of Oracle and was at that time the most famous analysts of the Internet era, wrote tones about how this would be literally a multi trillion dollar industry within five years. That all fizzled out completely. People didn't find enough value. Beyond the transaction, certainly the technology has changed, but where do you see the value having changed? Beyond that prediction of 10 years ago? Right, so of course I remember those days with nostalgia. If you look at the exchanges never really worked out and I think the reason they didn't workout it would because it was a way of commoditizing the transactions. The last thing you had existing relationships between buyers and sellers and somebody comes along says, oh, we're going to put the exchange in the middle and make that relationship anonymous when nobody wanted to see this intermediary get in the middle of those. Transactions, on the other hand, if you look at exchanges like the Google ad auction or the Yahoo ad auction, the Microsoft ad auction where we're actually selling advertising on an exchange, it's actually been very, very successful in that context, and it's been the most successful. I would say in cases where there weren't existing incumbents who would have an incentive to kind of block this improved efficiency of transactions. So I think that. There were reasons why these exchanges failed. They may have been a good idea, but there was lots of people who didn't really want to see them happen. Whereas when you have a new business you don't have to deal with the with. The problem with the incumbents, so that would be my answer. Yes, yeah. You talked about the collection of data on customers to get a better fit between customer and and advertisements that were put on pages like Google and Amazon and so on and on your slide and you spoke about the elements of trust and security that were key to that. You also on your side had the word transparency and that seems to be very important because if I'm going to trust the vendor to hold information on me, I want to know what they intend to do with it and what kind of information they are holding. But I don't see much transparent. Currency when I'm using Amazon or Google, I don't know what information you're collecting on me. I don't know exactly what you intend to do with it. How can we improve that transparency and make it clear to the customer what it is that is being held on what they intend to do with it. OK, so that's an excellent question is a question about how can we improve the transparency and I think this process is working its way out now. the Internet Advertising Board just really released a statement of of practices best practices that. I would say most of the players in the industry or adhering to Google. If you go to that little box it says ads by Google. You click on that ads by Google Link. It takes you to a page that describes the way in which data is being used and it allows you to look at the interest categories that are being assumed for for your particular transaction and allows you to change those or to opt out. Entirely, So what you want absolutely is that transparency at notification and the issue is this point is really one that's. Human interface issue of what the best way to present that information is. So click on ads by Google and you'll get the answers. Yes, I want to talk about patent rights, an intellectual property. In reality it costs maybe 10,000 to $100,000 to file a patent. If you ever have to prosecute it, it probably starts at about 1/2 million to 3 million to prosecute a patent fight, and what that means is that people who have deep pockets are always going to win, and it makes it more difficult for the small business person. I as a small business person who's coming out with innovations. Do you have any advice on how to come out with innovations? And I didn't mention the the problem that patents are only good for one country. If we get a patent in the United States than people in other countries can knock it off. I think the whole system is going to have to be revised for the future, but for the present, do you have any advice as to how to come out with innovative innovations? And not have them be knocked off well, essentially, just yesterday I was at a conference on innovation that studies this question, and there's of course, as you know, big debate in Washington and in the IT and biotech industry is about what patent reform should look like. The way we think about in economics is there's 3 dimensions of the patent. There's the length, there's the width, and there's the height, so the length is the term that the patent last 20 years. Now in the US, the width is the breadth of the patent. How much it can cover, whether it's narrowly interpreted or broadly interpreted, and then the height is the standard of novelty. How high the bar has to be to be able to be granted a pen, and I think that there's a feeling among, especially in the IT industry, that people can live with the length. The width is sometimes an issue. How broad can the patent be defined? But the height is extremely difficult to measure because what's the appropriate standard of novelty to apply to have a patentable invention in the USI would say probably has the lowest standard of a novelty. It's supposed to be something that's not obvious to someone who's skilled in the art. But the I think the implication is that someone who's not skilled in the art but also doesn't have one shred of creativity in their entire body. That's the standard that's now applied to patents, and we've led to this very perverse situation. It's like the missile Cold War where every company has to have a portfolio of patents for defensive reasons, because if you get sued, the best responses to respond with another. Salvo a pack of. Another suit against the party that originally sued you. Now the difficulty is a small inventor is frozen out of this for exactly the reasons you describe. There were only a few countries that actually had the resources to put those missiles in place, but in endangered everybody else. And so the challenge is, how can you encourage this kind of of innovation at the at the individual? Inventor level and and step aside from the. Patent standoff that's become the norm in industrial regions, and there's a big split between the IT industry, which would generally want to see higher standards of novelty and fewer patents issued. You guys are very, very inconvenient versus the biotech industry that wants to have more patents issued because it's completely cord to the structure of biotech commitments. What the business is based on. I discover a new compound and I patent it and then I can go out and have a monopoly for 20 years in terms of selling it. So this is being hotly debated in Washington. There have been attempts at reform. It's a big challenge to deal with the large companies and the small inventors at the same time I. I don't have really good advice except make your voice heard in terms of this patent reform legislation that's being crafted now. Thank you only one party knows that information. And search engines don't usually want to to give out too much more about that kind of information on the same side. Obviously, if I was a vendor, I wouldn't necessarily want somebody who's responsible for my getting a majority of traffic to know too much about exactly how many conversions I get and how much I make for each conversion, because I might get leveraged out. And in fact, you could use that information to raise my ad rate. Well, you're right, those are exactly the considerations that go into trying to design these mechanisms. So the issue was, for example, the advertiser may have an incentive to hide the conversions, or at least to get the conversions to happen through a different channel. So many of you participated in eBay, for example an eBay. Once you to communicate with the merchant through eBay, not to do a side deal and avoid the eBay transaction charge. Well, yes, and the same thing with all of these other situations. If you're advertising and paying on a conversion basis. Then one of the things you might want to do is when the user goes to your site is there's a great big one 800 number that allows you to facilitate or encourage these off channel conversions. Now there are some feedback effects that work. The other ways. For example, if you're showing ads that are more likely to convert so the conversion probability is a factor in the ad ranking, then if you have two fewer conversions you don't get shown and so you want to encourage. At least some of the conversions to be recorded an I think your point earlier about the not wanting to reveal your value in the ideal mechanism, you would simply reveal the value of a conversion and then you will run through the mechanism design problem that would design the mechanism to show exactly the right ads and to do exactly the right thing. But the difficulty is it's really a repeated game and the information that you reveal at this point could be used against you. Potentially at some point in the future. So this is what makes it interesting. These are the challenges. There are ways to get around some of them, and there are compromises that you want to make in terms of actually implementing these things. Google has a conversion tracked product. We have something called conversion optimizer and there it's it's a capability where you're typically using it for observable conversions like ringtone downloads or software downloads or viewing a particular page or signing up on a mailing list. Where you you're pretty could. You're pretty convinced that you can observe the actual conversion in terms of that process. If you can't observe the actual conversion or the conversion takes place offline, then it would be better off using a paper click or a paper impression based pricing in terms of the contract that could actually be supported so it comes down to the same kind of observe ability issues I was talking about. If you have good way to observe the conversion. Condition the pricing on that. If you have a good way to observe the click condition, the price on that. All you can observe the impression then you have to condition the price on that so changing what you can observe is going to change the way that contract is structured. Can you comment on the other side of that which is how advertisers might be able to verify and some mutually acceptable way exactly how somebody like Google or another search engine. Is Pro waiting their ads based on their perception of frequency of click. So the question is the verification? Well, I think one of the you know Google is sometimes referred to as the Google Black box for exactly the reason you describe and one of the initiatives of the company is to provide more tools, more transparency, more observe, ability for advertisers. So they have a more controlled environment and I think you'll see over the course of the next several months some of these tools are being. Rolled out so there will be more transparency. I mean, there's always a limit because there is a certain amount of trade secret in terms of how some of these things are computed, and you know how they are weighted. And there's also the issue of if you're completely transparent than your subject of various kinds of attacks or manipulation, so there's always going to be some Gray area there, but I think we definitely can move further towards towards making these things transparent, and I think you'll see that. In the very near future, you'll see some examples of that. So another aspect of contracts, an that's enabled by the computer is more elaborated. Contracts that are never the and or. Better cognitive observe ability by the participants of what the implications. These would be able to automatically analyze the fine print add more. About what's supposed to happen under various contingencies, an as the economy moves, especially to a services based economy so much. Services are a lot more complicated as offerings in terms of what's supposed to happen, and it's often difficult to understand. People are often taking things sort of on faith, so I just wondering if if what you see in this space of kind of cognitive observe ability and or elaboration, especially around services, as a contract ING Foundation for the global economy. So it's a great question. I think it's a huge open challenge, so the issue is how do you make these contracts understandable for my card? How do you improve the cognitive interpretation of the contract? And it's a huge huge problem. I'll give you a nice example. Subprime mortgages, right? We've all heard about subprime mortgage, you say good, how could these people be so foolish as a sign this mortgage with this big balloon rate and all this stuff? While I was talking to a fellow yesterday at this conference was a professor at Harvard Business School. And for an assignment, he got a subprime mortgage contract, gave it out to all the Harvard Business School students said. Read this 80 page document overnight. Come back, there's going to be a multiple choice question, but the provisions of the contract, while you can imagine it was a total disaster, it's almost impossible to understand what these contracts mean. I'm sure many of us out here bought a house, but I would suspect that very, very few of us read through that stack of papers. These are closing is extremely difficult because these contracts are so obscure. So having, for example, an agent who could parse these contracts and be able to determine what they actually say or answer questions about them in a honest way, would be extremely valuable. And as the contracts between become more complex, I think that's inevitable they're going to be more complex because you've got new things or observable you've got. Potential to conditioner. More things as good, but it also increases the cognitive load. I have to tell you a story, but ten years ago I was working on economics of Internet routing and I talked to a person who drew up the contracts for interconnection agreements in ISPs. And if you've ever studied this, you know there's lots of different arrangements, peering and transit and all sorts of things, and I said how did you get into this business? She said, well, I used to write interconnection agreements for telecommunication companies and they're usually about 150 pages long. And then it was asked to help out by writing an interconnect agreement for Internet providers, and it was only 10 pages long. And I said here's a growth industry. And she was right, it was a growth industry. So the cat, the contracts are only going to get more complicated. The point you raise of how do they determine what's in them? That's a critical challenge. I think. Big help of this group could contribute to helping to solve that problem. Thank you. Right?
