But just to note that generally, depositing data in a reputable, reputable data repository so that Karen data Centers for example, largely takes care of F Na for the reasons outlined earlier on they give you a personal identifier, they put the metadata registry, they can make it findable, and they provide some mechanism of accessing that data, and we went into detail on that so. Where the data currently is, or two at least one landing page which describes that data. Certainly from the perspective is that where possible and their cash line is as open as possible as close as necessary where they where you don't have legitimate reasons to require you to keep the data, the data elements themselves hidden. But the interoperability puts the onus very much on the person creation the data and what it means is so they kind of technical definition is the ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information so the end user is a crucial part. Basically at the at the very low level. Again, I don't notice any work with work with tabular data, but if you work with the spreadsheet or CSV file, there's no restrictions on how you lay that data out, so it might take about somebody a lot of time to kind of take the data. So there are conventions within different domains, even at the level of how you arrange your data. In a table that make the data that it quicker to reuse, if not easier to reuse. So if you've already packaged your data and arranged according to some Community convention convention or domain convention, that makes it easier to load into something like in our program or a Python program or whatever program that that's relevant to the main you. Starting social Sciences is to have a. Codebook or data dictionary or some sort of minimal reporting requirements that you know at the very least, foster the. But they can be overwhelming for an individual researchers to grapple with, so again. As with the access elements, it's useful to think about all of this is a spectrum. Because if you leave it to the end as we are not going back and trying to even remember some of the elements can be difficult, but if you're that semantic level so really what format state, organization, documentation, licensing would you want? Needs to understand your own data. And also just to find one, don't forget the researcher. Research integrity is another hot topic. And so just to talk a little bit about that so reproducible science. So things like you know over emphasis on novelty in publications that you only published novel and new results, as opposed to. And this isn't a problem with any individual researcher, but it's actually a result of the system. A real thing and you can see it in terms of certainly the need for data stewardship. So these are some stats from the high level expert group on the European Open Science Cloud, and I know you be talking Bout funding tomorrow so this is a group that's looking at how your data across the board can have a better data infrastructure for science. So this in the UK context in the context of their research excellence framework, they've stated that they recognized as an equally valid form of research output and that they will reward research environments that deliver Open Access to a wider set of outputs and just Journal articles and conference papers locally. So not least, they've estimated at 6.7 billion is required to be invested in the European Open Science Cloud.