[0.0s - 29.0s]
So he broke.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Structure of nanoparticles with X Ray diffraction. We could see broader link of diffraction peaks with decreasing particle size, so suggesting breakdown of crystal in order to almost amorphous material. However looking too. Structure of individual on a particle with high resolution electron microscopy. We could see nice order suggesting good crystalline order of non apart.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Eagles on the other hand, we know that the structure at the surface of material is usually different to that in its interior. So from that point of view, we could say that's nanoparticles would have different structure since they have very large surface.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Area. So jurisdictions usually use. Consider, for example during explaining magnetic properties of nanoparticles adjust box structure. However, the structure of mixed oxide nanoparticles. And properties of mixed oxide nanoparticles are different. Actually, they depend on the size, not only directly, but also indirectly through the influence. The small size has on the structure of nanoparticle. And seeing mix oxide nano materials in general, the structure is usually directly related to chemical composition, so we could expect nanoparticles different composition to that in part materials.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
In order to keep nanoparticles small during synthesis, special support not in equilibrium conditions are usually used, so that could also affect the structure of nanoparticles and consequently there.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
What is? So in my talk I will discuss different aspects of deviations in the structure of nanoparticles from death of ideal bug state. In the cases of two structural types of magnetic materials, spinner, ferrites and axonal ferrites, hexa ferrites for nanoparticles prepared by different.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Synthesis routes. The most important. Structure type for magnetic mixed oxides definitely spinner spinner structure could be presented. US close packed arrangement of oxygen aisles with tetrahedrally coordinated a sites and talk to him. Very coordinated besides occupied by Katy.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So actually we are quite lucky to work with the skin of ferrite since they could be easily synthesized also in C2. So without any high temperature thermal treatment with for example, using simple coprecipitation of metal hydroxides including iron, two hydroxide and subsequent oxidation of iron 2 plus results in direct formation of SP.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Email ferrites. For example, by simple coprecipitation we could obtain. No particles for which resolution image Ng should suggest well. Crystalline structure, however, by using, for example continues super critical hydrothermal synthesis at higher temperature of 500 degrees C. High pressure, but very short time below 1 second. We could obtain similar nanoparticles, but in this case they have. Relatively thick amorphous layer, so one such deviation from structure of bug which should be considered is simply amorphous layer at the surface is of nanoparticles, which is due to or actually influenced by the.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Preparation method Usually we would like to control particle size during their synthesis. So one of the metals that allows that external decomposition of metal all AIDS. In this method, the pre synthesized metalloids are dissolved in non nonpolar liquid with high boiling point at high temperature of boiling points. The olets decompose. And the spinner Cardona particles are formed already coated with full IC acid. The process of nanoparticle inflation is totally separated from particle growth. And this is the condition which gives us the possibility to really closely control.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Tickle size these two images shows. Cobalt ferrite nanoparticles prepared with thermal decomposition at the same time picture, but for short time and long time its temperature. Of course, with time that.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Particles grow, however they could not explain tremendous increase in magnetic properties with.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Longer time. Both nanoparticles had similar composition, as proven by EDS.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Why is this so? The question is why so bad properties after a shorter time of temperature and the answer was suggested by high resolution images in images of nanoparticles for long time at final temperature we could see this regular periodicity of lattice fringes suggesting good crystal.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Nitti however, images for nanoparticles prepared for shorter aging times, we see this non homogeneous contrast in high resolution images, presumably due to some internal nanostructure. Actually, each nanoparticle is composed of domains afforded material which slightly differ in their orientation, so of course with increasing time, the particle recrystallizes is and the magnetic properties.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
These are improved. Next method we use and. Allows considerable control over particle size. Is Coprecipitation in micro motions in such methods the. Precipitation of hydroxides occur in tiny droplets of Equus face embedded with surfactant, so-called traverse misers, which are distributed in an oil face. So. Chemical reactions are limited to small space of the misers and the size of the product. Nanoparticles depends primarily on the size of the masses, which is thermodynamically determined, in particular with water to surfactant ratio. So the size of the nanoparticles to be easily controlled just by changing micromotion composition, temperature, or.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Stration of. Reactors dissolved in the ecospace. So by changing my conversion composition and temperature series of nanoparticles of magnesium ferrite were of different sizes was prepared. The nanoparticles with sizes below approximately 3 nanometers were paramagnetic or larger particles were superparamagnetic. However, particles in general had low magnetizations much lower too. What we would predict, take it into consideration only size, so suggesting that those particles have different structure too.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Mark zinc ferrite. High resolution image Ng shows good crystallinity of larger nanoparticles. Of course, taking into consideration the cell parameter of spinner, which is around 0.8 nanometers, is difficult to park. Talk about crystallinity of the smallest nanoparticles for which XD. Showed size of. 1 1/2 nanometer. So just to sell parameters approximately. The agglomerate of such small particles. Appears in high resolution image almost as amorphous material. However sound distinct areas. Regular periodicity could be observed corresponding to individual nanoparticles. Videos of video nanoparticles showed the presence of Wolf reconstituting irons in approximately the ratio, which approximately corresponds to starting.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Position. So just according to electron microscopy, we could not say by so bad magnetic properties, so we had to go on step further by using X Ray absorption techniques. Science analysis showed the variation in manganese K Ed shifts.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Suggesting? So the violence average valency of magnesium. Ceramic standards to be 2.7 in nanoparticles. The valency was estimated to be 3 plus for the largest 8 nanometer sized nanoparticles and higher than 3 + 4. All our other smaller nanoparticles suggested combination of manganese 3 plus and manganese 4 plus. Incorporation of manganese 4 plus into the spinner fare structure is very unusual, at least in bulk material.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So the structure. Local crystalline structure of nanoparticles have been started using XT XT gives radial distribution of backscatters around absorbing iron. We could see here because. Spectre 4 four. Manganese, zinc and iron absorption in the ceramic.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Standard, so first big corresponds to 1st neighbors, that is oxygen, of course oxygen.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Apple's second neighbors for next 2 picks and. The intensity amplitude of those two peaks. There is a lot of function of the side where absorber fatalities incorporated, so this big marked with a is significant for incorporation of silver cation tetrahedral sites while we pick Mark would be is typical for incorporation of Porter.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Oversight so if we compare the eggs of soft bark and nanoparticles, we could see decreasing of peak corresponding a peak corresponding to tetrahedral incorporation of zinc. And increasing of BP and showing that inama particles the. Zinc. Change site incorporation size from tetrahedral typical for bath material to octahedra.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Just opposite situation is could be included from Byron exits curves, so decreasing of BP can increase in prophetic showing just opposite directions. So from octahedral sites to stay trihydro site.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The exits of Magnus is very interesting, since in nanoparticles it shows only depict suggesting incorporation exclusively. The octahedral sites, and we have some additional component in XT curves which appears as small shoulder around 2.1 and strength that is at distances where in spinner structure we could not expect. Any second neighbors, so this additional component component is obviously related to smaller ionic size and correlates with violence is higher than three plus detective bikes.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Analysis. So this is a deviation in structure of nanoparticles from death of bulk. Materials were also quantified using fitting of. Exit scores with simultaneous relaxation of woolfrey Spectra showing Iran. And zinc exchanging structure to exchange positions in structure. Magnus Stacy nanoparticles, almost exclusively at Doctor Hedren sites and this additional component in excess of manganese was somehow explained with shorter distances between manganese atoms at octahedral positions. So this changing in insights of incorporation. Makes structure very flexible and flexibility in structure means that also composition of such material could be.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Inflexible. I would like to illustrate this in the case of bulk material of zinc ferrite, which is actually paramagnetic as bulk materials. It's since it has normal spinner structure with zinc practically exclusively at tetrahedral sites. So so rigid structure means that also its composition is closely defined. If the sink to iron ratio is significantly changed from that stalker mode structure metric value of 0.5, the secondary phases are precipitated. Zinc ferrite nanoparticles show paramagnetic natures due to changing structure regarding changing distribution is of zinc and Iran. And of course, this additional flexibility of structure means that also composition of zinc of zinc ferrite nanoparticles could be quite flexible.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
And indeed, we could change from positional thing for right now, no particles in both regions without losing single phase spinner structure. So in the case of 8 millimeter size nanoparticles we could change zinc to iron ratio in from zero to approximately 0.8 without exsolution of any secondary phases.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So with increasing zinc content, the cell parameter increases and that is good indication that this if phenomenon is not related only to the surface of nanoparticles, but is really property of normal particle.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Cereal. So this non stop Yama tree of zinc ferrite nanoparticles was also proven by directly EDS analysis of individual nanoparticles in. Sample prepared with startings into our own ratio of 1.7. The actual measured ratio was zero point 9 and of course some zinc oxide particles were also.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Present. So. In spinnell the structure of nanoparticles is different to that of Buck in terms of different distribution of K tiles over 2 sublattices. The IS adaptation of structure to small size should be completely different in hexa. Ferrite structure fixes fella structure could be presented with the stacking of layers composed of oxygen and barium with. I run atoms in interstitial sites. Structure could be divided into structure blocks as block composed of two layers containing only oxygen ions and air block of three layers. In hexagonal stacking, with the middle layer containing costs of barrier metals. So in such a structure there is no. Real possibility for exchange in positions of barium of and Iran course. They're just too too different in chemical.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Nature. So there is question why? How the structure is changed when prepared in the form of nanoparticles. The answer to this question is not really known for simple reason. Up to now, no such small nanoparticles could be prepared, namely the formation of barium. Hexafluoride's needs high temperature, typically around 700 degrees C, and that generally results in particles which are larger than approximately 50 millimeters. In that size, we could not observe any. Particular changes structure. Love recently managed to synthesize the nanoparticles of varying hexafluoride with sizes below 20 nanometers, using special adaptation of already known hydrogen.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Tomatoes. If we look too. X Ray diffraction pattern of nanoparticles. We could see it's completely different to that of bulk materials, so it's really difficult to say that this is really barium.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
It's right. EDS analysis actually prove that this the compositional those nanoparticles corresponds to composition of barium hexafluoride.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
The particles are actually have actually form of very thin platelets, so. And typically, typically three nanometer in thickness that is only allowed one and a half cell parameter is corresponding C direction. And. We could see here. Here is high resolution image of such nanoparticle oriented close to 110 direction. We could see this large periodicity corresponding to half of cell parameter in C direction. So this is, this suggests that this is really hexafluoride. If we.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Look to a high resolution image of bulk material in the same 110 direction and compare this.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Image 2 image of Hexa hexa ferrite nanoparticles. We could really see a similar or equal periodicity of. Layers. The cell unit cell or periodicity of in cell is mark here with this blue rectangle. So in this large you sail around in along see direction. We only have two barium containing players. Those variant containing Claire sexually decisively defined a bearing hexafluoride structure in Sophie nanoparticles. Of course it is large difference if the structure terminated surface with spinner S. Work structure block or with the barium containing air block. So up tonight we could only speculate on the basis.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So far resolution images that barium apples are situated at layers with hexagonal stacking. But of course, that have to be proven, hopefully with by using high angle annular dark field imaging.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
With some cases. How we could find nanoparticles in this case? Again, in the same this 110 orientation, we could still see this periodicity of 11 X string corresponding to half a cell parameter along Cedar action. But this particle shows completely different stacking of layers. So for now I could still just standard. In conclusion, that's in. Such hexafluoride structure the. Structure of nanoparticles is different to that of the bulk material in terms of different stacking sequence of structural blocks.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
So let me conclude just with one general statement that nanoparticles really have a different structure to death of corresponding bulk material, sometimes also different composition could be expected, and that should be considered that also one of possible reasons why nanoparticles have. Unique or different properties. So thank you for your attention.
