How new technology is changing the way we do business? Authors Douglas Adams said technology is a word that describes something that doesn't work yet. By my favorite author, Douglas Adams. Are the categorization by users of all kinds of content using tags? Corporate taxonomy can benefit from Folksonomy by getting employees or customers to tag products and services, thus making them easier to find for other customers. However, most users and clients refer to courses and training. So are we preventing our programs being seen? A system that allows the user to be automatically notified through the RSS reader they installed on their computer whenever particular websites, blogs, or podcasts included are updated and invoices need to visit different websites every day to check the content. So why wait for users to come to you? Allow them to get automatically updated when you have new programs, new dates for programs, new research or intellectual capital on your website. About You Tube now Liza downloads of audio or video content that can be listened to later on, a computer or transferred to an MP3 player or a video player. Well, what I'm talking about today is this list of services and tools, blogging, wikis, online collaboration and sharing among users, social networking sites, folksonomies, categorizing, and tagging by users, social bookmarking, RA RSS, Twitter mashups, podcasting widgets and virtual worlds. These these are small programs of interactive interactive virtual tools that are bolted onto existing applications that can be used on your operating system on programs such as Google Desktop or on personalizable websites such as I Google, Facebook. And if you create a widget that promotes your school. Virtualsuchassecondlife.com Entropia Universe allow real time interaction with other users in a 3 dimensional environment. You create a virtual person or an avatar and combine sell property in other products and services. Second, Life has 1.6 million regular users, 1.2 million dollars is spent in the virtual world every day. If memory serves me as agreed to create a real cash economy virtual world for China, allowing 7 million concurrent users and generating over 1 billion dollars annually. Should we open a virtual contact sales office there so that someone is available during set hours to answer any queries about our programs? Should we deliver programs in a virtual world? As more companies are concerned with their carbon footprint and sustainability. Twitter is a service for friends. Coworkers communicate to communicate and stay in touch through exchange of quick, frequent answers. To one simple question, what are you doing? This presentation the three seas in choice. But it show how transparent you are and show how good you are and if there are bad reviews, let them on the website because the bad reviews which tell people that the good reviews are true. On intellectual capital, why not get your research? Allow people to leave feedback on your search on your website. Is social media good or bad for business? You can read this afterwards on the slides, but basically 79% of workers used Facebook, LinkedIn or YouTube at work for business reasons and yesterday I was at a management 2.0 seminar in London Business School. At any rate you live. Well, everything we've known until now could be referred to as Web 1.0 large organisations like Yahoo, BBC, Amazon Financial Times talking to us the users. The advantage of online publications. Is that you don't have to show everything at once. I can brief introduction contents list if the readers interested, they click through, and if they're not, they move on to the next item. So the AdWords these adverts on the right hand side, for example you pay for them to appear in that position. We stuck with technology when what we really want is just stuff that works. But for example, 8000 pounds 10,000 euros, something like that for one week only. No knowledge of who is reading, how to follow up, just throwing the money and maybe maybe some will see it. Or any kind of any string that you search term that you want. You could get over 8 million impressions. How's that food brand building compared with 1.3 million in The Economist? You can be highly targeted. So what is Web 2.0? You can have RSS feeds, which I'll talk about later to allow readers to be notified of the updates. Although there are others now claims to be tracking 112.8 million blogs and over 250 million pieces of tagged social media. Sometimes yes, but on a basic level they can help your search engine optimization. If an MBA graduate talks about how positive the experience was. Effect on potential applicants who are still deciding. If a faculty member provokes interesting discussions, it will generate more references to your school and for example, more press. Might be vicariously liable for what staff say in a blog, whether it's an official one or a private blog. Anywhere, is it a corporate blog? We like blogging, but you've got to make it real. Update it regularly, be aware of your customers. And decide how to deal with employees if they step over the line in their blogs. If you want to encourage your MBA students to blog, are you prepared to take the good with the bad? So what is the leveraging the long tail through customer self service? They, the mining company, offered 500 and $75,000 in prize money to anyone in the world who could successfully identify where undiscovered gold might lie. Eli Lilly faced with a decline in revenues from Prozac when it was coming out of its protected phase. They launched research without walls in the mid 90s to create a network of external researchers in biotech, academia and so on. Your friends, your family in an online community where you can gain introductions to your Contacts, Contacts and your Contacts, Contacts, Contacts and your Contacts, Contacts, Contacts, Contacts and so on.