This is joint work with my advisor Kristen Grauman at the University of Texas at Austin. First, it can reveal structure in large image collections and second it can greatly reduce annotation time and effort when compared to supervised learning methods. Then for each segment in the pool of multiple segmentations, we run our familiar category classifiers to compute posterior probabilities which indicate the likelihood that a region belongs to a familiar category. So those reasons that are likely to belong to a familiar category, such as the tree building and Rd regions will have more peakier distributions, which will lead to low entropy while those that are unfamiliar, such as the car region, will have more evenly distributed posteriors which will produce high entropy. For a given unknown reason, we want to build an object graph which models the topology of category predictions surrounding it. We consider regions above and below an increasing spatial distance. We do not model side-by-side relations, since object can often be interchanged from left to right. This allows discrepancies in more distance reasons to have less effect on the matching. Therefore, to provide a description of the surrounding objects, we compute posteriors on the larger regions from the multiple segmentations and average across them. Two unknown regions that have. We validated our our method on four datasets containing multiple categories and multiple objects in each image. By varying the number and type of categories chosen as known. The first uses topic models such as probabilistic latent semantic analysis or latent directly allocation, and the second performs a hard partitioning of the image data using spectral clustering or affinity propagation. Existing methods rely only on appearance information. We also compared our method to an existing state of the art method by Russell at all, which uses the LDA topic model to discover categories using appearance features. And finally, here are some examples of discovered categories. Therefore, in other work we developed a method which we call, collect cut that uses the discovered share structure as top down cues to refine the object level segmentation. In conclusion, I presented a novel method that discovers categories by using the object level context from previously learned categories. I've shown substantial improvement over traditional appearance based methods. Can you identify the recurring blob that has the same shape in the four images? By using familiar categories as object level context. And a novel object graph descriptor which encodes the surrounding object relationships. So to overview the approach, we first learn category models on some classes.