[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you, it's a. What is the session? It's a session on object recognition. In context. If you were expecting something else here in the wrong place just before we start, anybody who's doing a poster presentation and isn't sitting in those three empty seats needs to come and sit there because the poster presentations will be time, then you need to be sitting in the right place. You know who you are? Let us start with the first talk by Young Jae Lee and Kristen Grauman on object graphs for context Aware category discovery. It will be presented by Young Jae Lee. Good morning everyone. My name is young daily and I'll be presenting a method for context aware category discovery. This is joint work with my advisor Kristen Grauman at the University of Texas at Austin.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the main motivation of our work is to perform unsupervised category learning, where the system takes as input an unlabeled image collection, compute similarities between the images or regions and groups them to discover categories. Unsupervised category discovery is appealing for several reasons. First, it can reveal structure in large image collections and second it can greatly reduce annotation time and effort when compared to supervised learning methods. And finally, training data may not always be available. For example, a robot navigating an unexplored territories should still be able to discover categories even though we cannot provide it with training labeled exam.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Apples. So existing work can largely be divided into two groups. The first uses topic models such as probabilistic latent semantic analysis or latent directly allocation, and the second performs a hard partitioning of the image data using spectral clustering or affinity propagation. While recent work has shown great progress, there are several limitations. Existing methods rely only on appearance information. Treating category discovery as an appearance grouping problem. Furthermore, they try to mine for all categories from scratch, and we believe that this is an unrealistic approach to discovery. While appearance is a fundamental que for recognizing objects, it can often be insufficient to deal with large amounts of clutter, occlusions, an interclass appearance variations. To illustrate the limitations of existing methods, consider this.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Thought experiment. So given these four images that contain unusually save blobs, your task is to simultaneously discover all recurring patterns. This is exactly how existing methods perform discovery. Can you identify the recurring blob that has the same shape in the four images? So this is a difficult and tedious task.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
How about if you know circles, triangles and squares? So the structural relationship that the familiar objects have to the unknown object can help make the discovery task a lot easier. Instead of trying to mind for all categories from scratch by relying only on appearance information, our idea is to leverage the object level context from familiar categories in order to provide produce more reliable groupings.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So to apply up to apply our idea on real images, we First partition each image into regions. And identify those reasons that belong to a familiar category and treat the remaining as unknown. So in this example, the mailboxes are the unknown regions. Then for each unknown region, we build an object graph which encodes the surrounding layout of the familiar objects. To discover categories, we group regions that have similar appearance and similar object graphs. So there's been a large body of work in supervised drug recognition and considering Co occurrence and spatial layout of objects. However, the context was learned on labeled training examples. We instead proposed to discover the object relationships and let that influence the category level grouping.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So the main contributions of our work is the idea of context aware category discovery. By using familiar categories as object level context. And a novel object graph descriptor which encodes the surrounding object relationships. Note that our setting is different from the usual semi supervised learning scenario and semi supervised learning. There are labeled and unlabeled points, but all all points are assumed to belong to the same set of categories. In our setting, we have familiar and unfamiliar categories and the the object level context from the familiar categories are used to discover the unfamiliar categories.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So to overview the approach, we first learn category models on some classes. Then, given an unlabeled image collection for each image. We detect instances that belong to a familiar category. And label the remaining regions as unknown. Then for each unknown reason, we describe its object level context via our object graph descriptor, and finally we discover categories by grouping reasons that have similar appearance and similar content.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
We first train SVM classifiers on a set of categories using color, texture and shape features. In our running example, the known categories are tree building, Sky Ann Rd.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Given an unlabeled pool of novel images, we compute multiple segmentations. This is to increase the chance that each object in the image will have a corresponding segment somewhere in the pool of multiple segmentations.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Then for each segment in the pool of multiple segmentations, we run our familiar category classifiers to compute posterior probabilities which indicate the likelihood that a region belongs to a familiar category. We then compute entropy given the posterior distributions. So those reasons that are likely to belong to a familiar category, such as the tree building and Rd regions will have more peakier distributions, which will lead to low entropy while those that are unfamiliar, such as the car region, will have more evenly distributed posteriors which will produce high entropy. So we sort all the regions based on the entropy scores and take those with the highest scores to be unknown. Novelty detection has largely been ignored in computer vision for object recognition and has not been considered for category discovery. Existing methods either either assume force choice classification or else train a single generic background classifier to classify all unknown instances.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So for. For a given unknown reason, we want to build an object graph which models the topology of category predictions surrounding it. To do this, we compute a super pickle sub segmentation of the image and treat each superpixel as a node in our graph.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
We consider regions above and below an increasing spatial distance. We do not model side-by-side relations, since object can often be interchanged from left to right. Then for each node, we record the poster distributions and average as we consider further regions. This allows discrepancies in more distance reasons to have less effect on the matching. And finally we concatenate the posterior distributions into a single vector to create our object graph descriptor for the unknown reason. So we took superpixel segments as nodes in order to maintain consistency in size and relative displacement across object graphs. However, we do not compute posteriors directly on the superpixel since they are looking at a very localized window in the image and may not produce accurate estimates of object presence.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Therefore, to provide a description of the surrounding objects, we compute posteriors on the larger regions from the multiple segmentations and average across them. To summarize, at the pixel level. We then. We then average the pixel level posteriors within each superpixel to obtain super pixel level estimates.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
To give you a sense of what the matching score will look like, consider this example. Two unknown regions that have very similar contexts will produce very similar object graphs, which will lead to a strong match.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
While two unknown regions that are partially agree in context will produce partially similar object graphs, which will lead to a fair match. So the matching score will be proportional to how much the context agrees.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Finally to discover categories. We compute affinity's between all regions. By considering both the appearance and object graphs. And partition the resulting affinity graph using a spectral clustering algorithm. Two unknown regions that have. Strong agreement in appearance and context as indicated by the thickness of the red and blue lines, respectively. Will produce high affinity's, while those that agree in terms of only appearance or context. Will have weaker affinity's. Note that traditional discovery methods only account for appearance information. Which means that the horses and dog might have been grouped together. In our current implementation. Will you give equal weighting to the appearance in object graph terms? However, however, one could learn a waiting on the two terms in an unsupervised manner.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
We validated our our method on four datasets containing multiple categories and multiple objects in each image. In order to study the influence of which categories are chosen as known versus unknown, we generated multiple splits. By varying the number and type of categories chosen as known. To describe each region, we used extons color histograms, an pyramid of hog features.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So here are some representative results from extensive experiments. These plots show cluster parity as a function of the number of clusters. Cluster purity measures the coherency of the cluster instances and increases with the number of clusters, since smaller partitionings of the data will lead to clusters that have more more coherent instance labels. The blue curve shows our results and the red curve shows the appearance only baseline. This baseline is meant to represent existing traditional discovery methods. Which group regions using only appearance information. By leveraging. By leveraging the object level context from familiar categories, we significantly outperformed this baseline.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
We also compared our method to an existing state of the art method by Russell at all, which uses the LDA topic model to discover categories using appearance features. Again, we show substantial improvement. Note that we do have an advantage from supervision on some categories which we use to model the object level context. However, that's precisely the key idea that we wish to advocate.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And here are some examples of object graphs that are method generated. I'm at that produces accurate descriptions of the surrounding object level context and is able to group the car regions together despite their heterogeneous appearance due to the strong agreement and object graphs.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And finally, here are some examples of discovered categories. We notice that our clusters tend to be more inclusive of interclass appearance variations than that attainable by appearance based methods. This makes sense since our affinity's are boosted both by appearance and context. For example. We discover sideview and rearview cars together as a single category, and group the distinct types of windows together. This will not be possible with existing methods.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Thus far, we assume that each object in the image will have a corresponding segment somewhere in the pool of multiple segmentations. However, this is not always possible when working with bottom up segmentation methods. Therefore, in other work we developed a method which we call, collect cut that uses the discovered share structure as top down cues to refine the object level segmentation. In a graph cuts optimization formulation and also refines the category level grouping. The image segmentations on the right shows some good examples that are method produced. So to learn more about this work, please visit our poster on Thursday.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
In conclusion, I presented a novel method that discovers categories by using the object level context from previously learned categories. I've shown substantial improvement over traditional appearance based methods. Unlike existing static approaches to discovery, which try to mind for all categories from scratch, we believe that our method or our approach is more realistic and that we can consider discovery as an ongoing process for continuous learning of categories. Thank you. Question. Interesting work, not with importing, but I'd like to ask about the cases how the system fails. So the question was how does the system fail? Can you be more specific? OK. So I think one of the. More challenging parts of our method is in determining what's known versus unknown. So the problem of novelty detection is a difficult problem and. So here's a figure that shows the precision. Recall where we pose the task of trying to retrieve the known instances based on their entropy scores. And the Red Red Star shows the threshold, which is just a which is the mid mid range of the entropies that entropy can have, which depends on the number of known category classifiers that we initially have, so there so we could misclassify true unknown regions to be known and vice versa. But we think that our method our the entropy based method for novelty detection, does a pretty good job. So that's. 1. Aspect where our method could fail. So I think we thank the Speaker for his answer. The next speaker will plug in and it looked like you had a question which we could just try and compress an answer into. OK, so the question was what's the advantage of using like spectral clustering versus a topic model? So actually I think that with a topic model you need a bag of words representation an it's not as. As straightforward to combine different types of cues. So if we wanted to have more terms. Example depth depth cues be more straightforward to combine the kernels and partition the resulting affinity graph using spectral clustering rather than using topic models. For next week are is plugged in, which finishes are awesome. Thank you, thank you.
