It evolved out of a class project and so this was work with Jinsang, Ping Wang, Timothy Lee, Bo leading, Qing, Liu, Joanne Luciano, and Deborah McGuinness. So this came out of a real life motivating example. And people want to know why this was happening and it turned out there was coli in the water, but there are a number of concerns. What could we do to prevent it in the future? First, we encode all of the information that we get for provenance using the proof markup language. So people want to validate it. So in addition to the map view, we have the ability to do some time series visualization of the data, which helps the users get a different look at how things are going. So with all the data that we've gathered, there's are some issues, and right now we're facing potentially thousands of instances for counting, and we have to be able to classify all that. And so applying these regulations can be costly and we really want to be able to do is get it in the long term to be done in a reasonable time frame. You get CSV files or flat ASCII files every once in awhile you get a web service that you can talk to, but that makes it difficult to integrate some of the data. Usually you have to look up a table or a column in a PDF file to figure out what it means, then use that in order to proceed with your analysis. The other thing is, there's a large amount of data, it's spread spatially. It's spread overtime, there can be a potentially large number of pollutants, and the analysis of all this information can be complex and time consuming. So the nice thing about this is 1 involves less points to consider per display of the interface and also it's pulling out less triples from our back end Triple Store, which means that we're not using as many resources on the network in order to get the information. First, you know data integration is going to be a big problem in environmental Sciences and semantics. And you know, we've shown an example in the semantic web system. And you know, we're also in the process of linking all of our things to DB Pedia as much as we can. The query and reasoning system that we have in the fact that supported by smart technologies improves our responsiveness, so it's very easy to change something. The Providence information that we're capturing helps to use provide transparency and trust, right? What if scenarios where user can come in? And Lastly, the user might only be interested in the certain sources that we've talked about and they can use that to control where they. So some future work first. We're currently in the process of expanding the semantic bus system to support all 50 states. So you know if it rains a lot or you get a hurricane, you want to be able to know what things overflowed in the area. 3rd we want to be able to have some more robust reasoning over contaminants and their corresponding health effects. Can we make them their own class so it's easier to recognize these types of situations? First off, Semantico provides a simple foundation for doing all this. Hopefully we have a more responsive system that users can take advantage of. I'm funded under the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship and our group has funding from many different sources of you listed here. 'cause if you are real time, I'm sorry. So semantics can help in a number of ways. The first is that we have tools out there that can convert these raw datasets into RDF, and we provide ontologies to help with the integration process. And Lastly, we've been work doing a little bit of work on using tools like the Sparkle construct query and applying pellets so that we can do automated reasoning over small subsets of the data in order to improve efficiency. So we have this semantico ontology which derives mostly from suite Al Time and some of the Geo information, and we use that to describe pollution concepts and lower socio metadata. The idea is that identifies water pollution sites. The nice thing is that demonstrates how these tools that use semantic web data can actually be used to address some of the challenges that we discussed earlier and really in the long term we want to use this as a tool to help empower citizens and citizen scientists to better explore water related information in their area. So here's an overview of the system architecture and basically in the top left corner you have where we're doing our data conversion. We've taken 26 States and this is still ongoing, and from them we've extracted almost 60,000 facilities, half a million water sites, almost 30 million individual measurements, and for total of just over 3 billion triples. To answer this question, if we want to know what things are playing near me, we could say, well, any water source that has a measurement outside of its allowable ranges polluted. If I will two classes, and so here is a value from California which actually states that a water source that has 0.01 milligrams per liter of arsenic is polluted.