1st I will speak about Contiki. Comparison between Contiki and Tiny OS and then the environment we were using for the time of his diploma porting and what is that we? Micro IP claimed to be the world's smallest TCP IP stack. It was published in 2001 and its IP V4 compatible also requires really really small footprint. The implements only only the really required set of features, and the protocols that we can use our TCP, ICMP, and IP, so there's no UDP support. In 2008 they presented this IPV 6, MCR IPV 6. I've given some details about Contiki operating system in general. Operating system which would be able to run on a large scale systems composed of heterogeneous sensor sensor nodes. The first is Contiki and the other is Tiny OS and I just compare them using these three bullet. So the most simple comparison that I could make so it is written in C and therefore it can be ported to many many platforms. And as I mentioned before, the most known are Texas Instruments platform and Atmel. So this ports exist. On the other hand, Tiny OS is written in SC and at least to my knowledge only the port to Atmel AVR consist. So in the core what we're mostly dealing with is is developing device drivers and this device drivers at the moment means that we are developing. In this directory of Contiki there are drivers written. I think for the CC-2420 and this uses the UART interface and. So this Microvision integrated development environment offers everything from project management. Editing the code, then compiling the code for the platform and also debugging the program. We were porting on the cheap Contiki version 2.4 at the moment only the kernel so this non OS specific things using the RAM protocol stack and the system Clock in event timers forearm. This main function, which initializes the versatile scenes or node and also the contiki. And then then he used two sensor nodes and one coordinator with the sensor nodes. Repeatedly sending temperature and humidity measurements to the core by broadcasting. So Contiki is a light way operating system distinct for sensor networks. It was developed mostly by Adam Dunkels from Swedish Institute of Computer Science and these available as an open source project under the BSD license. Operating systems that were. It was 42 since it's written in C programming language, it was ported to several platforms. MSP 430 from Texas Instruments and Atmel AVR platforms and are the most well known for Contiki ports. So which has an ARM Cortex entry core? It's named coffee and it has some memory management capabilities since it's dynamically linked operating system. We can divide it into the court and loadable programs and the core is usually. Here I've stated that the core cannot be modified after no deployment. So I'll come to that later, but just to mention it here, only core and this support for loading the programs is. But in order to support this because this is crucial in sensor networks, so saving with the energy the kernel let's application specific parts of the system to implement these mechanisms by. It consists of kernel program loader libraries and the set of processes. This means that we can port it to different platforms. Later on Wednesday, when the kernel is already on the system libraries, of course I are also compiled and induced in order to run the applications, while the processes that are running can be application programs or services. That's how they call it in Kentucky, and the service means that service is a process which implement some functionality that is used by more than one application process. The Kontiki is a hybrid model of event driven hybrid model of operating system with event driven kernel which supports also preemptive multithreading. And this is implemented as a library, so it can be called in a process if it needs it, and for instance, long computations are processes that needs. This allows threaded programs to run on top of event based kernel. Only by interrupts, no preemption, only by interrupts. The preemptive multithreading can be used on a per process basis. So also these are implemented as a service and can be can be called. So there are more or less 4 protocols. So right now is a protocol stack with extremely thin layers. Lightweight IP is IPV 4 compatible and the protocols that are implemented are UDP, TCP, ICMP, and IP, and it's modular and allows extension with additional protocols and therefore it also requires a bit larger footprint.