So separation consists in from a given signal that is observed and that is a. Take several steps and the main step I will talk about in this talk is the algorithm. And instead of having to sell it, and if we will, as we will see, we will make repeated calls to SVD to compute the nuclear norm and additional things such as subgradient. With the inequality constraints in the form of. This matrix should be a positive semidefinite. 10,000 samples every second. There's even the option in this case would be of size 10 to the power 10, which is too large for typical desktop computer. So I guess most of you are familiar with these notions, But so the objective function is convex, so and it's defined every element that needs directional derivatives in a regular action. And, um. It every point on this help line stays out of the sublevel set of F, so that means that there will never be dissent from any choice of the step size. I display a measure of quality of the resources, so it's just a distraction here and high on the software distortion ratio, the better the quality of the sources. And here the quality of the solution as you can. When you're looking at one, is already interesting, and so for values of values of Lambda you can look at the singular value profile of the of the approximate solutions to the optimization problem, and as you can see, as Lambda increases the well, you never get exact zeros, but this is the first. Level so if you count the number of singular values that are less than a given threshold, as you can see as Lambda increases the number, the number of singular values that are less than a given threshold increases. So the smoothing technique in one slide. So yeah, and we apply accelerated accelerated gradient descent. So in conclusion, so there I presented formulation of source separation that takes into account simple equality constraints. And as we can see, with even with a simple optimization technique, we get good results that are. As good as a MF, and probably by finding better algorithm, we can. OK, if you if any one of you wants to listen to the samples I have for every proportion of annotation and four 5 tracks I have results comparing NMF and Subgradients or I don't want to take. So it's difficult to compare. So that means that the short time for transform can be seen as a matrix. Those contributions fall in the category of informed source separation, and today I will talk about annotated annotation, inform source separation.