I've spoken a lot about company data in the last year or so. We wanted to create an open database and opening license database that had an entry and specifically a UI for every corporate legal entity in the world. When we got that information, we can use that as a node as an entity to tie other things to it. So have we done this? We've been we coded for about between 6:00 and eight weeks before we launched. That was how quick it was and dirty with 3.8 million companies. We've gone from doing lots of scraping and so on, but but increasingly we're using official sources. On on the scraper on scraping, but actually most of data still comes from scraping, and we've used the open data community. You know more common things like half of the US States and things like that. Along with the other people on the advisory panel, people like this Tokyo Stock Exchange, the global Financial Markets Association. We have micro framework called Sinatra for the API because it's quicker and easier, not lightweight, use loads of vanilla Ruby for all sorts of internal libraries that we've that we've done. This is how we pay for this. So unlike Open Knowledge Foundation who we work quite closely with many of these things, we are for profit company. It's quite important that have open data is going to succeed the way that open source is succeeded that it needs a diverse ecosystem, and that means companies that are in it who are not just using open data. At their core, and they they survive because open data survives. One is a services model, especially around cleansing data doing reconciliation, you know. By all means use the services using reconciliation service. That's the community, either with data or financial support. Come company registers have forgotten that their main role is one of public record of the artificial creations that they have created at the states have created and actively work to prohibit free and Open Access. Normalizing the data making sense of it. Same with industry, codes, addresses and so on. We've now got over 43 million companies. There are five core uses. Importantly, it can be used without reference to opencorporates. What's known as cool ur eyes because they map the ID. It allows what if questions allows it allows you to go sort of scooting around. Let me try this thing. Back end that we implement for the Google Refine, which helps you to to clean up this data. The platform we have an open API which allows you to do pretty much anything you can on the website, even searches and get it as data.