[0.0s - 29.0s]
I've spoken a lot about company data in the last year or so. Since we launched Opencorporates, I'm going to give a quick instruction, but I really thought it might be useful to talk about some of the how we did it, and some of the issues rather than just what we're doing. Um? We said well.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
We set out to do opencorporates. We had a simple, but a fairly big goal. We wanted to create an open database and opening license database that had an entry and specifically a UI for every corporate legal entity in the world. Every corporate legal entity in the world. It's probably worth just mentioning what we mean by Corporal against E. Sometimes called a company that companies people think Microsoft is a company. Microsoft isn't a company. Microsoft is a collection of a network of hundreds thousands of different corporate legal entities and legal entity is quite important because that is the thing that has legal personality. It's an artificial entity given legal personality by the state so that it can enter into contracts. It can be sued, it consumes. And so when it comes down to it, the people you work for, not Microsoft, but one of the legal entities within Microsoft, and so in all our lives. The issue of what is the company is is critical, so we set out to in order to understand this. In order to understand what companies are and what they look like, and corporations are, and for all sorts of other reasons, we set out to create a list of these identities, legal entities. And create ur eyes as identifiers and the UI. We decided that we wanted one without any where. We had no embedded IP, either explicit IP or HIDDEN IP where we create a new identifier that that you had to go through us to in order to do it. So we created a UI. It's a little bit difficult to see, but. Up there you can see that the number its companies slash GP and then slash a number and that is the number that was issued by UK's Companies House when that company was created. And there were also when we've got that data. When we got that information, we can use that as a node as an entity to tie other things to it. Other bits of public data to it.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
That allows you to do something fairly powerful, which is to search for a company across multiple jurisdictions. And more than more than that, when you get that information, it's all open licensed, under under a under the open database license, which means it's free to reuse even commercially.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So. There are five core uses. Why is this useful? Why does it even matter? What's the point? When you got an open identa.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Filing system Nigel talked well eloquently this morning about the importance of ur eyes to identify things. Then you can use them as common identifiers between different organizations. Friends of the Earth will have information about this oil company. Greenpeace will also have information. Publish what you pay will. Governments will, but how do they exchange that information? How do they pull it together and make sense of it? Because in general they will hold it without really knowing what they're talking about, but if they know what? If they say, OK, do you know what we're talking about? BP Exploration Alaska Inc. And here's the UI for that. Then it means they can combine their own data. And it's not a. It's not a sufficiency, but it is a requirement in terms of allowing different groups disparate groups to start sharing their own data. So if we want to to have a wider understanding and be able to exchange each other data that we need to have identifiers that we can use. Importantly, it can be used without reference to opencorporates. You don't have to tell us you don't have to ask your permission, you can just go ahead and use those identifiers. They're also useful in themselves. What's known as cool ur eyes because they map the ID. Issued by the Company Register map to that. Then if you know what the opencorporates ideas open corpus your eyes, you know what their company number is. That gives you an extra route. For more information, and vice versa. It fits with the E business vocabulary that. That Phil Archer talked about yesterday and actually it can even be used for companies where we don't even have the information on it so we don't have companies in Kenya, for example, there is no online Co register. The state of the Union Register is is a interesting one. But if you know what the company number and can you is, you know where the UI is going to be, so it can be used where even when we don't have the information. The second year.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Is simple search. I really wouldn't underestimate this. One of the critical areas that we're dealing with here is that we're all dealing with here. When we're talking about using the data is aware question of how much friction is involved in using the data. And this function involves not just those people who've got big datasets and needs to at least. This fiction involves people like journalists, for example. If you want to, if you're in America, then there's no such thing as American company. Each state is use their own has their own company register, and you want to search across company registers. Then you have to go to each. As a journalist you have to go to each of those company registers in order to do it. This will. This makes a difference between spending literally 235 days searching different registers to making it to three or five minutes, and that's a huge amount of time when journalists and investigators push for time. It allows what if questions allows it allows you to go sort of scooting around. Let me try this thing. Put this thing in and it generates toys in its own right. This is for data from a danger list who was actually yesterday. I know he basically put in did a story where you put in this summer at 12 months ago he put in the top 100 Danish companies I think into Opencorporates, found that which ones of them we've got. Company names simply named companies in tax havens, then Mangum up and their reaction was interesting was like, well, how did you get this information as though it's some sort of state secret? One of them actually said we don't when he pointed out where they information and and showed him on the on the way it existed and they said we thanks for telling this 'cause we think that's possible forward. It's.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Source for additional information. So we're pulling in addresses by filings websites. Status Information International Trademarks UK government spending health and safety violation. We just pulled in the FDIC. the American FDIC banking register. I'd also allows global look ups. Now this is something that I'll touch on that later, but essentially when you got different other identification systems, the SEC discussed Exchange Commission issue, for example, the CIK code for a company that then they register, then it allows you to do reverse look ups and potential to be to be able to use this as a Rosetta stone between the two between two different identify systems. Four things reconcilia.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Nation. This is a really big problem. Every single, in fact, it could be argued that the biggest issue that government has fired his data goes is one of entity reconciliation. It doesn't know what it's talking about when it's talking about data. It is the proverbial man dying of thirst in the middle in a lifeboat in the middle of C is surrounded by data, but actually hasn't got, has no ability to be able to use it, because often it will. You know, the EPA. Have a federal reporting system where they they have information about the plants and so on that's made up of 17 distinct different datasets, none of which can be combined with each other because they're using different identifiers when they use things like General Electric as a name of something. Now there is no such thing as General Electric. What does it mean? It depends on the context. Depends on things you look at the EU spending data you look at, lobbying information, all of this stuff. There's real problems with entity resolution. We have a. Back end that we implement for the Google Refine, which helps you to to clean up this data. Finally, there's the.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The platform we have an open API which allows you to do pretty much anything you can on the website, even searches and get it as data. Um users can update information now, and that's going to be. That's something that's been extended. This is a corporate grouping for for mask, which is basically a mapping between legal entities and what humans think of us as a Corporation. We just added start fairly recently. Added directors.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And officers to it extent that we can. We can get that some places don't don't have it, but there's some really cool things that you can do with that, and it shows the power of this information.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So have we done this? First we started small. We didn't try to. Solve all the problems. Figure it all out. We made it up as we went along. Not looking upon this from a theoretical perspective, an academic perspective, but by figuring it out by getting our hands dirty, really delving into deep and the data. So this was how we were when we launched. We've been we coded for about between 6:00 and eight weeks before we launched. That was how quick it was and dirty with 3.8 million companies. We've gone from doing lots of scraping and so on, but but increasingly we're using official sources. Where possible would always rather use official sources, so in the UK we get the official data from the UK using the API NZ we've now got access to there and get the information from their API. A couple of US states make this data available. Maybe information about this date as as as data rather than just on the web page. Belgium announced last week that it was going to make it's a company register open data. We've been having conversations with them for about six months or so. And that's much, much better because you get more time later. You get better at data and it's less strain on their websites and necessary.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
On on the scraper on scraping, but actually most of data still comes from scraping, and we've used the open data community. Dave and fairly awesome web service called Scraperwiki, so that's why we've got green and companies. That's why we've got one point. 1,000,000 Indian companies. That's why we've got Pakistan companies. That's why we've got. Well, someone staying Mongolia for us at the moment. Someone looking at Georgia as well as you know. You know more common things like half of the US States and things like that. We've also worked with governments. It's it's important that we we didn't want to be and we don't want to be any sort of renegade outfit we've been working with governments. We work with the as part of the EU. Program that Phil mentioned yesterday in W3C for business for Capital E. Six months ago we were invited to be on the financial Stability Boards. Advisory panel on on its work on global legal entity Identifiers. Now that's that still surprises me. We've been going for 12 months. Basically a micro startup in the UK doing open data, scraping company websites, company registers without their permission. We were invited to be on the G20 program for that being handled by the Financial Stability Board to advise them. Along with the other people on the advisory panel, people like this Tokyo Stock Exchange, the global Financial Markets Association. I so GS one people like that, so that's been interesting and it's been really useful. We're working with the World Bank quite a lot now. We've started to have quite substantive discussions with the US government as well. And and so it's been quite interesting and quite quite useful. Technology wise, it's really straightforward. There's really nothing.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Actually at all. It's all open source software. Very, very straightforward. Currently using my SQL as a as a database, but will almost certainly move that into Postgres. Um? For search we use solar for indexing. Again, there's been quite a bit of pain there. And we may well look at Elasticsearch. We're not sure yet, but we may well look at their mobile mutualistic search. The code is in Ruby. Specifically, we use wheelhouse for the main application. We have micro framework called Sinatra for the API because it's quicker and easier, not lightweight, use loads of vanilla Ruby for all sorts of internal libraries that we've that we've done. Web server really straightforward engine X. Memory, cache caching use Redis heavily. Um? The other interesting bit I think possibly.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
This is how we pay for this. So unlike Open Knowledge Foundation who we work quite closely with many of these things, we are for profit company. It's quite important that have open data is going to succeed the way that open source is succeeded that it needs a diverse ecosystem, and that means companies that are in it who are not just using open data. But whose business model and businesses are dependent and have got the job of making open data? At their core, and they they survive because open data survives. Now we're not looking for customers, but we've got two sort projected source of income. The first is.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The services model and I think these are interesting sources, interesting things for other companies in this area. One is a services model, especially around cleansing data doing reconciliation, you know. Use the API. By all means use the services using reconciliation service. But it may be cheaper for you to say OK, look his £500 for doing this while not specific down and writing some code or or training someone on Google Refine. The other one is the dual license model, again taken from the open source world. Which says you should contribute. That's the community, either with data or financial support. So for example, you can just you know what's to stop done. And Bradstreet taking our data and incorporating it in there and the database? Well, actually I would love them to do that. That would be Christmas for me, because then we could turn around and say great now just abide by those show like restrictions. I don't think they're likely to do that. I think they were more like to say what we would like a copy that aren't bound by those show like restrictions. And actually, we've already got some customers doing this. We're not looking for customers because it's not. We're not yet, you know, we're not yet at the size that can support their sales team, and we don't yet know what that sales team would look like. I've run companies before and run sales teams and there. And if we are going to scale and if open data is going to scale, it's important that they use a different sales model than the proprietary systems. But we've already got customers who come to us and said we'd like your data. Would like a special extracts. Would like information without those share alike restrictions or would like custom some cuts of the data so the problems.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Getting the data is one of them. Come company registers have forgotten that their main role is one of public record of the artificial creations that they have created at the states have created and actively work to prohibit free and Open Access. The data, whether it's through captures, blocking IP addresses. This is a report we did about Open Government partnership countries. The average score for access company data was 21 out of 100 and here you see. Places like actually had things moved slightly, but it's Brazil. Spain and Greece get 0 out of 100. Language.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Problems, legal problems, culture problems. This is a page from the Hungarian Register. It's actually quite difficult even when using Google Translate to understand what it really means. Then there's issues. Then this issues of.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Normalizing the data making sense of it. This is Barclays and you can see down the side. There's a whole bunch of different types of current status. My favorite sub on the bottom there which says floors like sloped stroke deficient. But again, what do these mean? Normalizing across countries not straightforward. Same with industry, codes, addresses and so on. And that's one of the reasons why we've been working on the WCC business for Capital Becausw

[522.0s - 551.0s]
You understand this. You make sense of this even before you get the idea stage and things like that. You understand this by actually understand getting your hands dirty with examples, and if we can get clarity on that then that helps us and that helps the whole community. Finally, there's the issues of handling the data when we.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Talking when some of our tables have got 150 million rows and you've got constant rights as well as constant reads, then you start to have issues and it's one of the reasons we're moving from you from my SQL to Postgres. And that's it.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
We've now got over 43 million companies. We ate well. Aim was to have 20,000,000 companies in two years. We've got 443 million companies now in 18 months. Alot down to the open data community and nearly half the US States. So thank you. Use any location based information regarding the companies allowing to make some business analysis. Business intelligence analysis. Based on your graphic dimension, yes, it's probably the the. There are two questions that we get asked most frequently. The first is networks between companies. The relationships between companies and the 2nd is to do with geographic locations. We're collecting addresses. We've got millions and millions of dresses register addresses, but other addresses too. The difficulty is one of geocoding those addresses, parsing those addresses, and also geocoding. When you've got something like the UK, we can do that with post codes. That's open data there. In the US there are options, but when you get to having to parse Brazilian or Indian or Colombian or Greenland addresses and geocode them there, apparently there is one company that does geocoding from Bosnia Herzegovina. And they charge a hell of a lot, because they're the only people who got that data. So there are issues to do with it, both in terms of understanding the addresses which we are starting to work on an geocoding we will be doing. Because also we want that geocoding that location to be not not to be on a proprietary license. So there are issues there. We've been talking with some of the people behind Openstreetmap to try and understand some of those things, but it's a. It's something we're working on we haven't solved yet. But we are working. Thank you.
