But it's sort of a non trivial issue, so and some of the interesting issues that do come up when it comes to the pronouncing dictionary or what do you do about multiple pronunciations. Three variants of walking right? Let the let the aligner figure out which option to use, so one of the pros is you'll get a more accurate. To this or in choosing pronunciation variants, if the particular variant that was chosen is your research question. It can be tricky to identify which pronunciation. Variance or variance of each other to from from? No matter how they turn came out, did the person, say, walking, walking, walking in the alignment? So issue 2 that's always going to come up when you're doing alignment is out of dictionary words right now. This is really the bulk of what it has is. I'll go very basically through how it works. And the aliners model of how the world works is speech segments have a beginning, middle and end, at least the one I'm working with, they can vary. The word the is in there and there's going to be a sequence of beginning, middle and end transitions between the and the end within them. Concerns that are out there about forced alignment is it will make mistakes and it will make mistakes. This is sort of me talking to the sociolinguists in my life that it's a black. And you're just applying that problem to creating the data in the 1st place, so. I think it's 25 or so hours of US Supreme Court oral argumentation and has fairly good time accuracy. For Sociolinguists, so we are assuming that multiple talkers is the default case. And trying to be as cross platform friendly as possible, which is a sure but but. People who are not deeply involved with this system have made edits and changes to the code. It compares very favorably to other aligners on British data. My recommended way that I would recommend to use fave is to download it and install it locally. So what we had was this static data and what we wanted was. There's also the positive lab aligner, which has been developed at the University of McGill, so its pros and cons are going to be largely the same as FEV, 'cause it's a very similar kind of system. Developed in Association with clarity. Is they don't have their code available to download yet, it's just a web based service which means I can't actually use it here in the UK 'cause the servers are in the US so. I'll just let that play out, so this is the result of a statistical model over the acoustic data that we managed to collect. So how did we get from what we had to? This is very much what John was talking bout identify where in the audio the speech sounds. I'm just trying to sell why you might want to do forced alignment. And now this is driving your next sort of question.