The learning algorithm has access to a distribution Oracle using which it can generate random examples from the distribution which are labeled according to the function F that one is trying to learn. Our 3rd result is on learning DNF formulas under uniform distribution. So we are in the Boolean hypercube and I'm going to assume that the distribution D is Alpha log Lipschitz for some constant Alpha. These distributions also capture constant bias product distributions, and they also capture smooth distributions which were studied for learning problems in the work of collateral. The first step is going to be a low degree approximation, where we're going to argue that under these log Lipschitz distributions these sparse polynomials can be approximated by the low degree components. The second step is going to be a procedure to identify a set of candidate monomials with the hope that it contains these low degree components of the target function. For example, we know how to efficiently learn decision trees using queries. And there's also been work on agnostic learning of decision trees under specific distributions. And there's also been work on learning intersection of half spaces. At each step, the active nodes in the tree partition the polynomial. And I want to figure out whether probability of F1 not equal to 0 is noticeable. And the claim is that this test can be implemented using local queries. Not every X that the algorithm generates is going to make sense. It would be nice to be able to learn polynomial size decision trees using local algorithms. And it will also be interesting to study local membership query algorithms for agnostic learning. So the setting is the same as in the MQ model, but instead we restrict the algorithm to only ask local queries and formally we say that a query X is our local. So my claim is that by just using one local membership queries, you can learn noisy parities, so the noisy parity problem is that the data is generated according to distribution and it's labeled according to an unknown parity function, and then each label is flipped independently with some probability. Using a similar strategy, we can also see that you can learn K juntas under uniform distribution using one local queries. So our first result is on learning sparse polynomials, so we give an efficient algorithm that learns sparse polynomials. An in a few slides I'm going to define what these mean.