Unlock signal with present you the work about bison at generation using textual data that we were doing at the European settlers of Computing in Spain with Christian boggards. Then a word about the data and preprocessing we use, but this is where they are in and see might be observed. We have 8000 paper titles taken from permit and the goal is to see if it's possible to re discover the relations between migraine magnesium. So so some results about this Swanson benchmark. All the percentage of indirect magnesium and migraine link or kept. So the results of the Swiss and Benchmark were able to easily discover links between magnesium and migraine. The cosine integral to measure gives similar results, but by the measure improved by Association discovery, that is to say, it to rank higher the links between migraine and magnesium. Overall, the measure, that is it is very it is really different. That was the idea I think also of the Bison project is to bring together 2 very different domains or data sources. In this case biology and music. So challenge trying to merge to the. Two very different domain and see if there are any by situations between biology domain and music domains. So exactly the same address within Swanson benchmarks and nodes, all keyword extracted from titles and abstract. In the case of Department, database and titles and style of the music in the three DB. There I presented a framework able to generate buys and it's from any textual data sources as far as there is A and implemented parser. We also support the use of classical stimulating measure as cosigner, Tanimoto, as well as a custom measure by some measure adapted to the bisociation discovery. Different domains D1 and D2 and apparently unrelated, or it might be. Indirect associations between two concepts C1 and C2 on the on the right they might belong to the same domain, but the Association between them is made through a third concept, which is in a different domain, unrelated. Gives rise to a node that then if we identify sorry, a concept in our database, its transit is translated as a node in our network. We require a components to access to the original, and usually it are genius data sources. We also need methods to choose the entities that will be turned into, let's say nodes or concepts or keywords, and we use both of them. Spies in the generation is a two layer network. Today you network, the first layer is a consist of customized parsers customized to the type of databases we want to read the data from. This first layer sends to a second layer the data in a unified format, which makes us able to keep only one second layer, which is which is creating the buys on it from the textual data provided by the several parsers. Node is and contains a keyword. Then each node, each node contains a vector of links to relative documents. That is to say. Each node is weighted with the will see with the TF IDF value. The keywords are extracted using stemming and then TF IDF calculation. Takes also into account the difference between title abstract semantics. That's to say, if a word appears, appears in the title, it will have more weight in the text frequency calculation than if it appears in the main text. And this this weight of word appearing in the title is calculated according to the frequency that it appears in the main text tool. This is just to tune a bit the text frequency calculation. So now how do we create a links between our nodes we create quickly in between two terms according to the Co occurrences in documents, if at least that this is obvious, if at least the cocaine one document. The link between two terms is weighted with a similarity measure. So are we just say a word of the specificity of this bison measure, just that it is able to take into account that two similar high text frequency values should give higher similarity, measure similar result then too low text frequency value. Also this measure. Is able to take into account that it might be better to have two very similar but average text frequency value, then one high and one low.