Then I will discuss about computer computing, an mapping features for content quality, and then I will explain how we can identify best answer in those communities. We have the SMP Community Network forums that is a form based community for a product. So now we want to identify best answers. So then obviously we map features an we compute them to a shock model and then we use multiclass alternating decision tree model using 10 fold cross validations scheme. So what we found out is that in the baseline models is the content length was not actually correlating at all with good answers, which is quite different than previous works. And if we use core features, we can see that the SNP data which is CN written here performs better on core features and the STACK exchange data. Their comparative features, and then for the external features. So we just information gain ratio and then we rank them. As I'm just saying so, the thread features are the most important, but for instance the Sep data. So there is this app and small thing basically. So if there is a better correlation between best answers and the position. Different communities have different characteristics and goals and that for instance, as we were seeing that. Maybe it's not necessary transferable, but within our datasets it's kind of similar to behavior within these features. And another thing is we can see that Community votes obviously very important, but they're not inside, only features that helps to find best answers. So in terms of future work, we are more looking trying to look at regression models because so far we've been looking at finding the best answers. But sometimes we might have more than one answer that is actually good or relevant, so it would be maybe more interesting to find out which one are the best best withouth answers in the thread. Nearly 50% of data questions within our datasets didn't have based on certain annotations, so it's important in this case to find best answers, and we saw that. Try to previous work which is something interesting is that we didn't see that answer length was actually important. It can be for instance sometimes in the Stackexchange community, the one that received most votes mean another side of one that actually was selected as best answers. The only best information, I think, just this community votes because actually it doesn't necessarily reflect all those people point of. The concept of best answers, so within this answers. So basically they want that questions are solved by that by the people from the community and they want as well to identify with which. Which features can help users to kind of identify this good and bad content and in this time there is the Oscars so they look for finding answers relative to a given issue there. So maybe there is already an answer out there. In terms of issues, obviously is like we can see that the most important is didn't find best answer in this community so, but one of the problem is like for instance in our datasets that will define the term. So which one is the best is quite tricky to identify with Lee Ann as well, although we can the people from this community is, they can notify what are the best answers? Mark as solved so we don't know if actually the best answer was there is there or not, because maybe they just don't bother giving this information. Content, features, thread features and platform features can affect content quick and help to identify quality content. So first we try to identify best answers. What are 25 best answers across different communities and platform which is kind of new most of the time. Ann as well.