The officer is taller than you. So the general goals of this work. And we hope that these. Poems which use, for example, specific news story as an inspiration, evoke fresh mental images and viewpoints to that specific news story or some other documents. The relevant weight of these word associations in this new story. And the weights are smaller for those word associations which have pretty much the same distribution in the new story. As in the background corpus. Could be, for example, poetry, so we can take a piece of poetry out of that corpus and then use the words we have just mind the substitute words in this template. And of course we need to do some morphological analysis and synthesis to do this. Automatically taken from another complex could be, is it the dirt, the squalor? The wear of human bodies and the dead phases of our neighbors. Word associations we get this kind of a poem. The singer of later Lamborghinis and the early Thursdays of our singers. Like Justin Bieber drinking and driving while high profits surging Ukrainian Prime Minister resigning and US states reconsidering execution methods. Rise buying with transfer rise. Oh, if I could try it with my weak resigned concrete against the repeal. Do you resign? I'd have a Parliament like you at my television. Oh Ukrainian week how I resign you for your parliamentary legislation? I die, perhaps I have begun. This is a prisoner, and there is state. Over well outlined, the generation phase of the. And finally, I'll conclude with a short summary and future work. And to use these words in replacement poetry generation. EXPAND Our statistical NLP analysis to improve the results. And one interesting idea could be to take a set of similar documents and to produce poems which give an overview to the different aspects of this topic. So our aims import regeneration R2. And this means that we want to minimize the amount of handcrafted grammars. Instead of using knowledge bases and explicit krames manually generated templates, this sort of things we use solely statistical corpus based methods. The goal to use using these novel associations mind from certain documents is to evoke fresh mental images. Of course, this approach has its own benefits and restrictions. But then we have of course restrictions as well in this method, so the quality of the results varies quite a lot because we are not using any specific templates. Next bit about related work so. For example, this full phase poetry generation system by quantum, it's all. Send a pizza party word Association analysis. Which word pairs are novel in a specific document? So Justin Bieber on Miami drink drive charge after Rd raising pop star Justin Bieber has appeared before Miami court accused of driving under the influence of alcohol, Marianna, and prescription drugs. They said he did not cooperate when pulled over and also charged him with resisting arrest without violence and having an expired driving licence. So what could be relevant word associations in this specific news story? These are the novel content of this specific news story. And then the method how to find.