During the calculation of the TF IDF scheme, we moved rare words and also units with length, while it was less than three lines, and we also. Monthly windows that was a total of 283 window based topics in a second phase, the NMF model was applied again and in order to detect the number K of the dynamic topics, we applied the topic coherence. We have the 20 most prominent words for a topic here. Presents the contribution of its political party to its dynamic topic. And finally, users can also see the most important Windows topics that are related to its dynamic topic for its window topic. As I mentioned earlier, users have also the opportunity to explore the plenary sessions at the species by time that is based on the time windows, but the data were divided for the purposes of our research, we have a time stamp. The first is that all the minutes of the proceedings of the plenary sessions that took place in Greece during the last 26 years were digitized, eyes processed and transformed into structured and machine readable korpus, making them for the first time available for NLP and text mining techniques. So the next step is to to evaluate the extractive topics and to assign descriptive label based on the most descriptive terms of this for it's a topic and we also plan in the context of an interdisciplinary work with political scientists to examine specific dynamic topics of interest, focusing on specific case tablets and examine their relation to events like the refugee crisis or the. For example, the recent work of green growth that analyzes the content of the European Parliament. Games in a timestamp corpus of political speeches can provide insights about the way political agenda reacts to exogenous events like the emergence of euro crisis, for example. I think with the data collection we drift from the website of the Greek Parliament. In particular we had 4356 plenary sessions that contain a total of more than 1,000,000 unique speeches. In particular detects the texts of the plenary sessions were enriched with annotations, including the start and end point of fits and speeds, the date of its pits. And when the tab with 283 Windows for the time period are under investigation, so this gave us the opportunity to discover topics that are relevant to each month of this year and also monitor their dynamics overtime. So here the idea is that after identifying a number of topics for it's a time window. Then in a second phase the topics that are semantically similar are grouped together as dynamic topics.