[0.0s - 29.0s]
The main purpose of this initiative, perhaps I could give you a little bit of story for those who are not aware of why we're doing this. The vision of this research domain, which indeed was called before enterprise interoperability and now has been, let's say, in large to other streams of research, as we incorporated digital business ecosystems domain and also virtual organizations. An enterprise collaboration research domains. We

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Still want to support future business forms through research for network organisations. So the idea is that businesses will need to be much more competitive, innovative, agile and value creating. But of course this means that they are highly technical dependent because they do so they will need to use the technology available and this will be mainly mainly done through the Internet and the Internet is evolving so there is indeed a convergence of two different rules, the physical world and a virtual world. And that combination of, let's say, tangible and intangible assets, is probably an opportunity for innovation, and we support this idea. And This is why we also support the technologies and infrastructure that will allow this. Let's say realization of an innovative enterprise through service oriented enterprise concepts, for instance. And again, we have also the idea that ecosystems of enterprises will have different shapes, so we're techno agnostic. We're not supporting any specific technology supporting this ecosystem. We believe that any type of system is acceptable and of course to support this integration of a diversity of systems people process is. We need interoperability. So for US interoperability is a key issue and therefore since we have been working in interoperability research for, let's say more than 7 eight years and working in software development for let's say more than 10 to 15 years. We wanted to jump from short term vision to a long term perspective and provide solutions that will be decoupled from the technology and This is why. Let's say I bought a three years ago. We have in the Enterprise Interoperability Research Road map, listed 4th Grand Challenge that is called enterprise interoperability Sciencebase The Commission believes in this idea and.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
This is why last year on the 11th of March to support, let's say the exploratory work that is required by this initiative, we have created a task force between the members of the Enterprise Interoperability Cluster, which now is called future Internet Enterprise Systems cluster. And this task force is composed by four members, Keith Popplewell, Yanish, Adella BDS. There is also a global ERP and finally regard to Conservis from Nova, who are, let's say taking the difficult responsibility to drive and lead the community to this difficult approach. Since last year we have achieved several things. There have been a lot of presentations in the community. Not that many feedback. I would say the. Obviously it's something that you're interested in, but not really ready or not aware of what it entitles and in terms of work and investment. So This is why we thought that it was necessary. Also perhaps too. Launch a group that could be composed of scientists, not necessarily belonging to this community, not engineers. Ann, who could help us understanding? What are the issues? How can we you know this side of what are the important questions to be answered and how can we develop this methodology in an appropriate?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So as I said, many reasons why we decided to launch this initiative. First of all, a lot of meetings in the world not only in Europe but also in the standardization bodies led by large organisations. Oracle is very supportive of this idea. Microsoft came two times to talk to me regarding this idea and we have also strong business Cape to do it because we have been funding research for more than seven years on this specific domain with solutions that were not necessarily replicable in other domains. I believe that there are both philosophical, scientific and also economic reasons why to support this idea. And also for information Michael Leighton, who came to the Commission last week, is launching an International Institute for Enterprise Interoperability for Sorry for Interoperability science with the support of the Nasaa. So the aerospace agency of the United States, Asia, MIT, another private organisations in order to solve by mathematical theories some of the basic problems that we have encountered.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
In our domain, so why Science Foundation? Well, as I said, to avoid double funding to decouple research from the technology context and provide solutions that are replicable. Because we believe also that enterprise interoperability is not only a technology and engineering problem, it is also a domain where you have to take sociological questions, organizational questions, managerial questions, information science questions and all these different issues require a multi disciplinary approach which somehow obliges us to go back to the roots of all those different disciplines and also yes. An interdisciplinary perspective is key when you're dealing with organisations and complex systems, and this is a way to remind us.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Of this issue. So the approach was as I said, to launch the Task Force Journal Task Force and then finding scientists people outside of the domain supporting the reflections. This is why we launch the expert group we have at the moment. Michael Leighton, Jonathan Cave Ted goranson. Tina Keaggy Matthias Flicker and there representing the open source world. They're representing mathematics, physics, Michaela music off. Of course, we are also looking at the economies, so the game theory. There are a lot of people who are having a different background hand. Who are giving us a different perspective on how you could achieve this, and these scientists have met already last week. The idea is now to publish a report by end of next month, so this will be available to everyone. Of course it will be publishing or critics website. So that I believe this will be. I hope good inspiration for the people who would like to work on this nice exploratory idea with the support of the Commission. Because we have also made some provisions in the work program called 5 that is going to be launched on the 31st of July and will end up by the end of October beginning of November. And indeed we are calling for proposals good proposals that would help us to understand this. Exploratory task and hopefully that will comprise also varied set of.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Spirits of scientists supporting this initiative. Just one very last word. I believe that this is a pioneer work that we're doing at the moment and it means that we're prone to fail and I fully accept that and it would be in the very essence of science to say that we're trying to fill fill that we were trying to lead. That perhaps might not be the right one, and I am ready to accept the fact that perhaps we will fail. So this is very important so that we are absolutely free of discussing of. Let's see debating and therefore do not believe that there is a specific goal to achieve. This is something that we need to do in a free and open mind, so I appreciate that this meeting, for instance, happening outside of the Commission is helping us also to achieve this.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Well, yes, it is interesting that this idea stems in the inner circle of engineers, while the relationship between engineering and science is very critical in this question because it is all about do we really need to go back to science? I mean, the engineering practice is the technology. I mean, is the usage of the technology that technique? Through the new what the science background that you have? So it is that very, let's say 10 year relationship that we are somehow shaking in a way. Do we need really to go back to a practice that in I mean to something that goes well beyond the engineering engineering happens? Let's say latter in the value chain and that is something that perhaps was justifying the fact that it was not so easy for the community to reflect on this. Topic because and I have here a quotation that I would like.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
2. Yeah, because we think that and this is not me. Engineering is the application of science for human benefit. So yeah, why should we care about science? That is, that is the very discussion that we have. Another interesting quotation is this one. So I have summarized paragraph before by saying science needs engineering to demonstrate evidence engineering, need science to develop. Therefore, although signs an engineer are Inter train engineering is not a subset of science. I mean this is a question that. A quotation that I wanted to offer you, and you tell me whether you agree or not with this. A few personal thoughts if I may. I mean, this is not for publication, so let me. It's not sorry this is not my computer, so I don't know how to leave. Yeah here. I believe that I mean the question was do we believe we do? We need science? In this directory general, yeah, I got the question from my Yorkie. Do we really need science? They're not convinced they are supportive, but they're not convinced. I think we need science if you want to achieve a disruptive change, and if you want to address the problems that are not being solved so far by our research. So yes, I believe we need science. We need to solve because we have some fundamental problems. I think that we need to go to the fundamentals of our practice. So this is something that is not solve at the moment and I think of theories of organization, theories of information and that is where I believe we mostly need to go to the scientific base. Um, yeah I wanted to say also that I don't think we are creating a new science. Starting from engineering, I think that indeed what we need to do is to go back to our cyantific basins and check whether indeed something is missing there. So more exploratory work. But we don't create a science from an engineering domain. I don't think so. But again, let's discuss that. Let's discuss this. An NYU science. Yeah, I think we need to provide some some abstractions that will make those dynamics that we're using in our projects clear. Like we are examining very complex organisations, very complex systems and context. But we can use very simple Lowe's to explain complex problems like we do for instance in observation of the planets using Newton mechanics. We can very simply explain something that is absolutely complex, so that is why I think that there is a possibility indeed for us to provide some basic abstractions and we got a very good example with Michael Leighton's presentation last week. Of mathematics. Applied to the understanding of the world, even that is a very ambitious work indeed. Alright, so I hope the discussions today will be seen as an important step to this interesting in Pioneer work that we're doing here, so thank you for organizing it. I appreciate very much that this is the first meeting. As far as I knew, that is indeed happening outside of the Commission and in the line of this initiative. So thank you for that. Thank you and good luck for the discussion.
