So in this talk are interested in systems with multi agent systems where agents would like to collaborate with each other to accomplish a common task awhile. That is, they have decentralized information, plus they do not know the complete model of the system. They either know it partially or do not know it at all. It's a three tuple and it is like an onion with the layers and the first term says that the X and want to Infinity is a sequence of finite expanding sets. An app till the F is a dynamic through these layers and we need a surjective function B that Maps X the reachable set for the. We typically don't need lemma one, but here because we are working an partial known case or unknown case, we need lemma one which says that for every multi agent system with partially story sharing, there exists at least one rar whose X until the F do not depend on unknowns, but B may depend on. SpaceX Action Space G, which is the space of all prescriptions a dynamic still the F and reward which is defined using this subjective function B and then we can truncate the whole like all these layers and the answer stab an call it the college Approximate Finalist MVP at North Layer. Our algorithm on this MDP, and we assume that the data the generic can be just Q learning any other finalists RL kind of edges to optimal strategy of other science. Our main theorem says that let JS star be the optimal performance of the original multi Agent system until the JB. At iteration K, the generic algorithm like let's say Q learning chooses prescriptions. I need to mention that all agents have access to common random generator in order to consistently Xplorer system. Apart of observation goes to local information and a part of that. So here at this example is Multiaccess Broadcasting channel is a benchmark example. H has a buffer of size 1 and there is a packets arrive at each user with rate independent Bernoulli process, right PQ, P1P2, let's say, and the objective is to transmit the packet. Each agent I does not know the state of the other agents and the common information here is they know the history of the action that has been taken by both of them. Here is that reachable set and you can see the oldest state depends on the rates. That guarantees epsilon optimal before large class of multi agent system with partial story sharing. And for this part Depomed Aprl, we provide a novel approach for model known and unknown model. We developed a multi agent Q learning for them ABC and the obtain error is actually a little bit conservative and in practice the actual error is less than this. So Anne thank you and this is the paper accepted in American Control conference. The discrepancy in perspective makes establishing compression among agents are conceptually challenging, even in the model known case. In general, these problems belong to next complex could be class. And so each agent Maps decide based on a control law which Maps the available information to its action in space, and this mapping is called control law and we call all the collection of all these control log control strategy. And we assume that agents observed immediate reward. Discounted case an or main objective is to develop a model based or model free reinforcement learning algorithm that guarantees epsilon optimal strategy. Local information, current actions and next observation. And the size of the size of the common observation and the local information are uniformly bounded in time. These assumptions are very mild and a large class of problems satisfy these. Properties such as delayed sharing, control, sharing, mean field sharing, etc. This is also a novel approach for reinforcement learning and palm DP, so there's just to capture the salient feature of our approaches that we guarantee epsilon optimality or class of problem compasses a large class of multi agent system various palm DP. Our algorithm may be used in the second step, an approach that we use for the second step is a novel approach. Consider a virtual coordinator that. That observed the comment in formation part and prescribes partial function that Maps the local information of each agent to action space. For simplicity, we just denote them by by beta. So like other palm DP, so let our to be the reachable subsets of this palm DP with action beta.