We're interested in trying to characterize the last surfaces of multilayer networks. For example, while the result of multiple experiments with multilayer networks give consistently the same performance despite the presence of many critical points in the optimization problem, what is the role of subtle points in the optimization problem, and is the surface that we are optimizing actually structured? So just to repeat, we encourage everybody to tackle the problem of establishing the stronger connection between both models. Interested in trying to link the spherical spin class theory to explain the optimization paradigm in deep learning. The output of the network can be expressed as the sum over the input output parts of the network, and then we have the product of XI, which is the input to the path. Then just a weighted directed graph. So what we do, we will try to model Max operator and the activation of the path using Bernoulli random variables. We will also assume that instead of having a network where every edge is connected with different weight, we will have Lambda weights that are uniformly distributed in the network. In particular, we need to assume that the activation mechanism of the path is independent of the input. So our open problem is, can we establish a stronger connection between the loss function of the deep model and the spherical spin glass model by dropping the unrealistic assumptions, and so the question is why would we like to do that? Seems like local minima are really equivalent and yelled at the same performance. A solution for small sized networks actually in the spin class theory we know we actually can prove that, but critical points form an ordered structure, so there is an energy barrier, a certain value of the loss function above which we will have high index critical points and below which we will have low index critical points and local minima, and those are very well concentrated close to the energy barrier, so they almost all of them correspond to exactly the same value of the loss function.