[0.0s - 29.0s]
So just a quick overview. Who in the line is so? It's like you heard already.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Yesterday's spinoff from user Steven Institute and it's an engineering and consulting company for wine and beverage industry. So these are the members of the team. In some photos and if you want to know more about us, you can always go to online and see more details about our company. So nanoparticles in beverage industry, I hope in this.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Talk I will. In to explain why we want to use. The nanoparticles, what properties are required when to use them? How to use them? So.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The sparkling wine or champagne or Prosecco or cava. 6 pinena whatever you want to call them. It's not known product and this is how it's produced basically. So after first fermentation, when we get still wine and very important that there are no sugars left in the champagne or in the wine. So we add to this wine we add sugar to determine the overpressure of carbon dioxide and we at least this is specialist special strain of yeast which is more resistant to alcohol. Then this mixture is filled in bottles. This is true for traditional ancestral methods, with the Crown cap. This is basically the same cap in beer bottles, and this is then left for fermentation and after fermentations for after second fermentation the wine lies on lease for 18 months or more. After that this segmentation needs to be. Say that means it's in the gathered in the bottles next, and this can take from 2 to 10 weeks. Depends on how often you rotate the bottles. So then the neck is cooled, the bottle is opened and the pressure inside the bottle pushes the segment out and after that liqueur is added to improve the taste or get the whatever taste you want of the champagne and Cork cap is installed. So if you go to clarification or read link or.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Rue Marshes is called in French. This is the time consuming step in the production. It's gravity driven, so the. All the used is sedimented just purely from gravity. Gravity is the main driving force, so in traditional way you do this with some guy rotating bottles in slowly. Putting them in the vertical position. So this can. Like I said, we can take also a couple of months. Depends how often how many times a day this rotation takes place. In modern days they wanted something called gyro pilots where they put a lot of bottles inside and slowly again positioned into vertical position. So the goal our goal is to shorten this time and by this also reducing the cost of reading. So how we do this?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
We use. Nanoparticles, specially magnetic nanoparticles. So we're using Maximite switches in nanoparticles, it's a. They are superparamagnetic particles, so they don't exhibit any remanence or across the two fields. The problem with this particle sees that they will dissolve in wine because wine is quite acidic, they will collaborate. They will have non specific limitation. So this is the things that we don't want. So if we look at Marco microorganisms or used we notice that on the surface there are carboxyl in phosphate groups, so acidic groups. So ideally we want to have some basic groups on the surface of our particles. So this is the surface. Touch of nanoparticles synthesized. And this is the set of potential of microorganisms. OK, they're not used, but. We expect some similar result, so This is why we do the function.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Functionalization of particles, with aminopropyl tree toxicity line. So this is this molecule. It has amino group at the end. It's a fairly simple reaction, so we get stable because functionalization. So this is chemical bond, so it doesn't Leach from the surface. A positive charge in this area, it makes particles more stable an because of this. Group, it will interact electrostatically with microorganisms so that they will bond more to the microorganisms. So how the process?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This is done. Hope this will work. So this is kind of example, so we have a bottle of wine which is cooled down to 7 degrees or lower. This is to limit the loose the losses of carbon dioxide or the pressure. We Mount on the collection Chamber, so in this part we will collect the yeast and particles. This is our suspension of magnetic particles. And we simply inject them into wine, so we will see. It produces some bubbles here because of nuclear nucleation effects that it has on the gas dissolved gas. OK, so after this we turn the bottle upside down and we put it in the magnetic separator. Which. Let's go. So in this ring we have several magnets, permanent magnets and this magnet through the segment which is now magnetized to out of the liquid. So we do this several times if necessary. So at the end we closed this Chamber and we removed. The collection this chamber so now basically we have clear. So line in this takes around let's say. Three 3 1/2 hours.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So this is these are some results of how this takes place, so we can see that the number the concentration of yeast cells. In the wine. So if you start with something like 80 to 90 million cells per milliliter. We can go down to, let's say, around 250, three 100,000 cells per milliliter, which is quite good clarity, but more important for the producer is the durability which we need to measure, so it needs to be, let's say below 9 so we can get down to let's say 1.3 or two. This really depends on the line that we're using and the process itself. So this is example of wine after cleaning and this is before cleaning and we can notice some changing color slightly. This is now slightly less red than before, so of course we said OK, there's this process have any influence on our wine be cause we don't want to change wine. So in order to do this we took one day.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And we tried some samples so we had. Seven different wines and seven evaluators, which we can call them like this. So two of them were really enologist so they knew what they were talking about and we were comparing this. Vines before, so before and after treatment. And the good thing is that there was no. Real change there was slight change so in taste and color and how it felt this wine, but not significantly. In one case even it was the average result was better. So this is this is very important for producers because this way so they can shorten the time it takes for. Wine to clear, but it will not affect the taste, at least not. Significantly so they don't have to change a lot about the procedure. In the development of making the Vine. So.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
To conclude, so yes, used in magnetic tender particles are bound by electrostatic interaction because of functionalization of particles. This enables us to use magnets to remove yeast from the wine. We have successfully reduced time of remache to round three hours. Approximately which which required clear clarity or ability, and we have no significance influence on the wine so very important factor in this case. OK, at the end I would. Of course we need to acknowledge the people with money who. Are investing in this. Project also would like to thank all the coworkers at Inova and it's in its use of Steven Institute.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And also thank you for your attention.
