So the works joint work with Magnus Rattray, who's at University Manchester. Just before I go ahead so the work is part of a Puma project for microarray analysis and just a little advert were going to be appointing a new post doc to replace Guido who got a lectureship just in September. The solution for F given by well the true F which is hidden by the other two and the numerical solution for F given by the Scion and red lines. I don't think this would work without this is estimating the underlying noise and this is just a plug for work. With doing that within the Puma project, which I do think is why this method works without proper estimation of the noise, I don't think this would work, so you then add a diagonal term which is actually not a spherical term 'cause we've got an estimate for each genes noise at each time point, and that's added to a diagonal term on that covariance. OK, so the real system is recently published biological data set using a linear response model by Branco at all, and the focus of the study focused on the tumor suppressor protein P. 53. I mean, Rasmussen and Williams talk about it. It's kind of a well known feature, but there are there in good accordance with the Barranco results. The key point though is our results took 13 minutes to produce an Barranco, and his collaborators took 10,000,000 iterations of Monte Carlo. And learn a map solution for FT Now we can also compute the sort of functional Hessian so we can estimate the marginal likelihood and do error bars and that sort of thing so. OK. OK, so but the first thing I'm going to do, or the first thing we did with this model is take G to be linear Now what's the point in that? I'll be talking about its transcription factor inference, which is modeling the dynamics of gene transcription. So we are interested in Furing transferring factor concentration in furing. I mean the nature of the model doesn't matter too much 'cause it's just a differential equation model, but the application here is actually observing gene expression level. So we know we infer these using a set of known target genes. Nonlinear responses, I'll just quickly show you some results from some different nonlinear responses. The first one we tried was just an exponential response model. Oh, I went too fast through the Hessian there, so we've described how GPS can be used in modeling the dynamics of a simple regulatory network motif. There's no need to restrict the inference to the observed time points. We get the temporal continuity of the inferred functions comes out naturally, so by that I mean, again, we're always seeing barrancos results mapped on to here, but we get the entire sequence of the protein coming out. Let's just go back. The parameter estimation in our framework can be achieved naturally by type to maximum likelihood or by using efficient hybrid Monte Carlo. Difficulties just other relevant work that we've done is. So the way it works is we're going to treat the transmit transcription factor concentration as a latent function in a differential equation model, and then we're going to assume a Gaussian process prior distribution for the latent function. But how can you produce better posterior approximations without sampling is, to me, seems like a big open question, but maybe it's not a good one. I'll skip the advantages for GPS and go straight to the model, So what we're assuming is our data consists of T measurements, so a time series of M RNA expression levels for any different genes, and what we're going to relate what we're going to do is relate each gene expression, which I denote by X subscript J to the transcription factor concentration by the following differential equation. So the dependence of the M RNA transcription rate on the transcription factor is linear, so it's a nice system to model. So in terms of what the integrals we need to do, our more explicitly. Now the nice thing is, of course that if we make this covariance function, the squared exponential this these integrals become tractable.