[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK. Let's start hello everybody, good morning and I would like to welcome all of you here. Also all the coordination team during these four years welcome you with me. I mean, Eric Pauwels, who was the first coordinator of Muscle at the during the first period. So for the financial and administrative coordinator Patricia and me. Now for the second period of muscle. And also I would like to welcome Jean. Show you the manager of person who join us in the room today. OK, I will start with very brief overview and outcomes from our muscle activity. Since it's our last meeting last scientific meeting, so I would remind some figures and then also let you know. What are the major achievement and outcomes? But I would like to go through this. Information very quickly so that we can start all the presentations and the invited.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
To talk. So as you already know, muscle is one of the largest network of excellence as it was one of the first accepted in this topic. I remember four years ago it was still yet possible to make a network of excellence with 42 partners. It's no more possible today, as you know. So the main I mean the main approach of muscle with regards to the other networks of excellence, is that here in fact I I don't have a pointer, but we have two 2 two major topics. One is regarding the the effectiveness and robustness of single and cross model processing through several media. I mean speech text told you and video, but also all together with machine learning to semi automatic extraction and manipulation and understanding of semantic metadata. So in fact we were really focused on multimedia content description modeling, but also how to put all together how to make better, how to make more performance methods. Approaches joining machine learning.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Efforts. At the very beginning of our activity, I mean the first period of our activity. In fact, we take time to know each other through very, very interesting scientific meetings, providing the state of the art in our domain, lunching the fellowship program so that several teams can share postdoc Fellows fellows. And.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Well, through the second period we started integration activity. Of course, with the fellowship, but we start, we launch the eating activity that are supposed in fact to be virtual apps and to allow in fact research integration and it was at the very beginning. I mean, during the year 2 grants for mobility of researchers and it was not more than that. So to really encourage people to visit each other so that they can work together and also. The main thing is to.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Published together. During the GPA 3. So is the second period and then we realize. I mean we reached the last period of muscle lifetime and we need more integration and more scientific dissemination of muscle results. So we we achieve quite strong work packages, reorganization and new integration instrument.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Swear set up. So I will skip all the manipulation and itegration Fusion and whatever modification of our.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Work packages, the result is that we focus on narrowing down the number of work packages. To be really more focused and more.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Patient um, mainly to to go forward. Our main objectives that were really, really stressed during the GPA 4. To consolidate these two integration, instrument the showcases that represent software integration between Partners E. Teams that represent research integration between muscle partners. So there were no more mobility grant outside these activities. The fellowship program where was stopped. Since we have other and more dedicated integration instruments and what I need to say is that showcases and the teams in fact involve very few number of partners so that it's more efficient to work together in small structure as we are quite wide network. So we we achieve a lot in the dissemination. Objective we targeted several professional exhibicion. There was a lot of. I mean, we asked all the showcase leaders video record so that we can still show the results of showcases through the website of muscle. And this material can be. Downloadable we can run it without needing any life demo. I mean we were not able to show. I mean sorry to show this live demo so the website is one of the efficient way to continue disseminate our results. But also what I need to tell you is that these video records will be also used by the European Commission. To let No 2 two, I mean to to use it for as dissemination material even for the Commission. To show the results of projects that are funded by the Commission. So the regarding the web portal main objective is to disseminate metal achievement software, data collection collectors. All information with high impact for general public press releases and others, and I would like to point out that now we have produced. Brochure and you have it on both side of the room. You can take this brochure of muscle where you have. I think nursing team make a very good job. It's wonderful brochure that show really in very interesting and. Beautiful way, the achievements and the work of MSR partners. One of our main issues this year was to address. This is an ability.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And then OK before say, saying word unsustainability. Very quick word about the integration of the last year. Some figures about the grants. So the eteamz. Here we have 13 and in fact what you have in the agenda will be presentation of the outcome of this 13 in teams. So the oral presentation within our meeting are related to the items. What I also need to point out is that for the last GPA, I mean the last year we have 135 papers with 30% as joint publication, which is very good achievement and just to remind the overall number for the 4th year duration of muscle. These are this is number of publication of muscle members with an overall percentage about 20. Person of joint paper during the whole duration. Also, I would like to mention that we as muscle. Partners produce two books. One is achieved already and you can buy it already in at Springer book on Machine learning techniques for multimedia publication for Multimedia Sorry, the publication is very recent and it's now available and the second one is on multimodal processing and interaction. It's now sent to publisher and it will be available soon.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So here is the rest of your team. I will not go through the list as you have. In fact, the list has items in the agenda, so we have presentation of all these topics. Some highlights about the activity and achieve.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Of eating. The showcase is. We make the choice that the showcases will not presented one by one, but will be available during these two days. Meeting during the coffee break I mean the whole duration and you can discuss. You can see you can play with the several life demos that we are talking about. I mean in the showcases and we have reached the really large audience.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Mainly OK. Here is the list, but you will see the demos of all these.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Showcases

[377.0s - 406.0s]
What I would like to say is that we attended and presented the showcases of muscle during full professional exhibition. So ABC, which is very known as well as sibbett azzameen, audiovisual professional exhibition and the presentation that showcases the demo of myself were very appreciated, and during ABC we were hosted by the name Electronic platform together with two other European project. Another professional exhibition more related to security and surveillance topics, so that to tell you in muscle, we addressing several application domain, not only audiovisual, but also some other security domain application still multimedia content.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
I will not go through all the.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Conferences that we have either organized or provide the sponsorship, but they would like to highlight that there was a big I mean investment and effort in regard to the benchmark activity in in muscle there was a lot of activity, for instance here, joint organization of Workshop on evaluation that there will be special issue. To be lost on in computer vision and image understanding. An evaluation to this is thanks to the activity of Allen.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Work package 2. Also, the benchmarking effort to the evaluation showcase was very successful during last CIVR 07 where we have three benchmarking tasks, Video Olympics, image retrieval event and also video detection event and this last one will be. In fact, I'm happy to tell you that this one will be organized as a new task in track bid for the 2008. So it is also an impact of muscle community to. Do it to be able to move forward to introduce new tasks regard.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Elevation. OK, this is my final slides and this is what I would like to tell you is that. What we have decided within the steering committee, but also through all the reply that we received through the questionnaire about the sustainability, is that we working group of muscle the working group. Titled Imagine Video Understanding which was Ercim working Group at the very beginning where we were involved together with Eric. Erica was managing this working group of muscle and this working group in fact was. Give birth to muscle network of excellence. So our. The final sentences and the discussion that we have is that we will in fact broaden the topic of this working group, since in muscle we didn't. Work only with image and video material, but also with other media. So we will broaden this working group to handle all media and all topics that we worked on during muscle and then. This working group will be healthy muscle working group. What I also would like to say that Earth SIM support financially this the working group share up to this amount. So we would have at least a first input. Also, several partners are willing to support there. I mean, all of the expenses of displacement of workshop of meetings and also nursing will give access to its internal fellowship program. Again, the. Again, we lean the sustainability topic. The web is a very important mean of dissemination, so it will be somehow reorganized to put forward more in I mean. More clearly, the outcome and results of muscle, mainly regarding the test and benchmarking databases, but also software repository that are that have different statues, open software, web services, proprietary software, so you will be able to find all this outcome of muscle that will be available to the scientific community at large. Also, what we plan to do is to to have a web form to coordinate industry and users Contacts for the uptake of MSR results. So it's a way to somehow organize and make more coherent the Contacts between the users. The industry that are interested of one or several showcase results. The virtual muscle experience. I will not say too much because you will see a very nice demo of what it is, which is sort of muscle in second life and it's very very smart. I mean demo that presents and. Really put forward results of showcases the partners. So I encourage you to really have a look to all these showcases and specially for this one. OK, and that's all for my introduction. Sorry for being quite long and then we'll switch to our invited speaker.
