It says we're going to use the language of probability theory to express all the forms of uncertainty that we have in all aspects of our model. And Bayes rule is one of the more corollary of the two basic rules, and so it's very natural. Or you could do a kernelized Bayesian logistic regression, also known as Gaussian process classification OK etc etc. Though Gaussian process defines the distribution on functions, so you can think of a function drawn from this Gaussian process prior with mean function mu, an covariance function K, and this is basically just an infinite dimensional Gaussian distribution. Here is a little picture of a random function that was drawn from this Gaussian process prior. And it's the infinite dimensional analogue of a covariance matrix. So I won't go through the derivation, but we can write the loss function minimized by a sort of. F We average integrate over F there. So essentially it handles the uncertainty in the unknown function by averaging, not minimization, and basically therefore you have a lot of the probabilistic semantics and so on, and some of the nice things that. Occurs a consequence of that is that you can learn the kernel parameters automatically from the data in a very straightforward way, and you can make the kernel quite flexible and etc. See without any cross validation, because you can just rewrite this parameter C as a single scale parameter on your kernel. We can get Bayesian logistic regression here. So we have functions and densities or distributions that we can do nonparametrics on, and that's very well known, but we want to do nonparametric modeling on things like sparse matrices, situations where you have overlapping clusters, networks, exchangeable arrays, covariances, hierarchies, etc. So sparse binary matrices, you know, once you have a distribution on sparse binary matrices, it's amazing how many uses you can put that too, and I'll describe a couple of them. So in particular what happens is that as the number of columns goes to Infinity, the matrix gets bigger and bigger, but it also gets sparser and sparser. So essentially the expected number of non zero entries is still bounded. So if you have any rose on average in each row, you're going to have Alpha number of ones, and in fact there are going to be drawn from the number of ones are going to be drawn from plus an Alpha distribution. OK so here is 1 particular kind of application from meets at all, which is a form of binary matrix factorization. Data point belongs to only one cluster, one and only one cluster in a factorial model, you know data points can belong to multiple overlapping clusters at the same time, or equivalently they have some sort of factor. I'm actually speaking in the social network and social Media Workshop a little bit more about this. So the great news for somebody like me who has a very poor memory is that everything follows from 2 rules. Then if you want to do prediction again, you do use the sum rule in the product rule. So we're interested in modeling networks. Alot of data can actually be thought of as networks or relational data. Obviously things like social networks, coauthorship networks, etc. And we want to have models that are able to predict missing links in for latent properties or classes from the objects, or generalize learn properties from small observed networks to larger networks. So one very interesting kind of model is something called latent class models, which basically say that the nodes in my network have associated with them hidden class, which I've denoted here with this colored letter attached to each node. And basically there's a single hidden discrete variable associated with each node, and then probability of having a link between a pair of nodes depends on. Now this corresponds to basically a clustering of the nodes or community detection as it's called in the network modeling literature. A model where if you get a new node in the network like you know you get a new person coming into Facebook or something, then that person can either belong to one of the existing clusters or it can form its own cluster in this very naturally incorporates this idea and then the probability of a link between two nodes just depends on the classes of those two nodes. So you really want models with overlapping clusters or communities. Node or a bunch of latent features denoted by these colored letters again and the link probability is going to determine be determined by the latent features of 1 node in the latent features of the other node. And again, obviously there are probably, you know, an infinite number of high schools out there, or workplaces out there, whatever. Is this infinitely attribute model for network data and the basic idea is that associated with each node object there's some number of latent attributes OK, and node can have an attribute or not have an attribute that's sort of basically like the ICP Indian buffet process, part of things. But then the attributes can have discrete values associated with them, so within an attribute then there is a clustering going on and the probability of a link between object or an object J depends on the attributes and their values. Intuitive explanation for what's going on here. Coauthorship Network data gene interaction network data, and the interesting thing about this table is, you know you could look either at the test there or the test log likelihood. Let's look at the test error here. Test their link prediction so the infinite relational model is giving us stay around 4%. The interpretation is that any model of matrices or arrays or graphs where the order of the rows and columns or nodes is irrelevant, can be expressed by assuming some latent variables associated with each row and column, and some random function mapping these latent variables to the observations. Is learning automatically structure from data so you know all over machine learning whether you're talking about clustering or dimensionality reduction or variable selection or fitting dynamical systems, the data or hidden Markov models, the data or discovering hidden sources in your signals or learning the structure of the graphical model, you know I found all of these problems very interesting, and they're all. In things like multivariate stochastic volatility, volatility is a function of time, but you could of course make these covariance matrices between different say assets or whatever be functions of whatever else you want. Sorry, Gaussian process, and you say OK, Now I want this matrix to be dependent on time. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to make these vectors instead of being Gaussian vectors. And hierarchies are just very useful for visualization and interpretability, and so they're widely used by lots of people you know. In the data, in naturally extends the dishley diffusion tree to arbitrary non binary branching is still infinitely exchangeable in the data as I just said, and the prior is sort of the most general kind of exchangeable prior. So we want to do nonparametrics just to deal with the complexity of the data in the real world phenomenon. Essentially, I can throw away D. So there are very nice to analyze, but the complexity of the model is somehow bounded by the fact that I've chosen a finite number of parameters. So even if the amount of data is unbounded, my model is not going to be very flexible, and so actually funnily enough, in this world of, you know. Now, nonparametric models assume that the data distribution cannot be defined in terms of this finite set of parameters, but can often be defined in terms of some infinite dimensional parameter vector. Or just think of that as a hidden function of some kind. If you have a flexible model you're hoping to get better predictive performance, and I think there's sort of ample evidence out there that you can get better predictive performance from nonparametric models. The other, really, you know, practically put the other reason to think about this is just to look around at what's been successful in the machine learning community, and I would argue that the things that have been really successful in machine learning are either nonparametric or pretty damn close to nonparametric.