So the first part of the work was the data collection and loading. We can set different rates of collection, one minute, 50 minutes, one hour and then. Measures that source of data observed by the sensors predicted in since we store the prediction in order to understand how to. Either curacy of the mining algorithm and weather data that are collected. That is the data preparation. So we have to figure out how to normalize the data and correct it by the historical measurements. The temporal autocorrelation of data, and this partial autocorrelation or data. So the idea is to figure out to use directional statistics in order to. Understand how data are correlated on both dimensional time and space and. We worked on the on the on the learning phase and we use neural networks. In particular we use the algorithm to air Pro plus the IT is a general purpose new neural network algorithm that use back propagation. So the learning phase take place in using two different methods. 24 data rows. Our approach our friend for framework on data collected by Sun Electrics that is a company operating in South of Italy with many plans 17 portable type plants in Italy and data were collected every 15 minutes and so we had 77131 days of a store ikle data used for training and testing data an. So as a conclusion, special and temporal features help us to achieve better, better prediction. Now we're going to incorporate autocorrelation missile measures in the update rule of the actor. This is what I call backs pessimistic vision. It is a kind of optimistic vision about big data that big data is like teenage sex. So here comes the real life and the last value. How to turn data into value? We worked on renewable energy data. The idea came from a particular need that the small renewable energy products producer have in Italy. But we worked on the in this project to this this particular aspect we want to make accurate prediction about the energy production from renewable sources in order to. The high rate of production because they are generated continuously and the complexity of the data because they came from different area and also they have to deal with something that it's not really easy to predict. We also want to tomorrow, though, how each single power source may influence the final price of the of the energy on the market. We gathered some historical data and real time data of production and we used some some prediction gathered from numerical weather prediction model and its audience prediction.