[0.0s - 29.0s]
First of all, I was surprised of the really nice organization of this workshop and in the scope. That is something that is interesting for us because we're going to conference. Sometimes you see some boring, boring presentation without a real application. In this case, it's not the case and I'm happy to show you the results of our project because the results that I'm going to show. It came from from a project funded by the Mirror that is the Italian. Government for research and Department for research, and this project involved the Eye Care Center. That is my Institute and University of Bari. Also in this work there is a PhD student invalid that came from Ljubljana that is a Aleksandra Russalka.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And so as I know that many people, when they know the word that things OK, another another again saving I will kill you. Too many times I have had this, this, this, this world.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And this is what I think data is in the mass culture, so everyone that is going to do something in this in this particular. Thinks that it's better to include the words big data in order to make stronger the proposal and the effort.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So I tried to categorize the data from a different point of view, not technical. This is what I call backs pessimistic vision. So once you see the 3D volume, velocity and variety, do things that you have many things to do and a mass of data to organize, and it's difficult to, and it's really difficult to figure out as the colleague told before how to manage this data.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And in a conference I saw this slide that is really nice. It is a kind of optimistic vision about big data that big data is like teenage sex. Everyone talks about it. Nobody really knows how to do it, and everyone thinks everyone else is doing it. So everyone claims that they are doing it OK and no proof of the contrary can be can be can be done because data is kind of general, a general concept. These increases working has to do with the veracity and variability of data.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So here comes the real life and the last value. What we can really do with this data that came from different sources and we have to avoid to talk about big data with. Co Manager Becausw Division the last version of the manager or companies where I can buy a big data solution to save millions of dollars because it's it's what in the mass culture is, is the meaning of big data saving money for free, but it's not the case as you know because.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
You worked on this project so. How to turn data into value? We can use many approaches that are mining, querying, exploratory analysis in order to figure out how to extract useful model from this from this huge amount of.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Data. In a in our project this is called Wipac virtual Power Operating Center. We worked on renewable energy data. This is why. The idea came from a particular need that the small renewable energy products producer have in Italy. I don't know in the rest of the Europe, but in Italy you are small. Renewable energy producers are forced to sell their production to the to the Central central authority, 'cause otherwise if they go directly on the market they have to sign. A sum contract where the penalty if you miss the design amount of energy is so high that is not convenient to take the risk. At least now. But we worked on the in this project to this this particular aspect we want to make accurate prediction about the energy production from renewable sources in order to. A2 provide to everyone, even the private small private to. Producer over the new Build Energy 8 tool to. In I want to say to work better on the free market over renewable energy. This is why sometimes we discover that sometimes people that produce renewable energy simply turn turn off the production plant because it's not convenient to to make it active because they have to give the produces amount for free to the central authority. In Italy, once you reach the desired level. Yeah, that is strange. Matt, it's it's true. It's only the 20% in Italy that you can produce for. You can have from renewable energy and it's crazy because in Italy we have a lot of plants that produce solar, geothermal and wind energy. They have to sell for free so they don't want to do this obviously. And so we have to wait to deal with a many issues. The high rate of production because they are generated continuously and the complexity of the data because they came from different area and also they have to deal with something that it's not really easy to predict. For our purposes the weather OK, because when you have renewable energy you have to to deal with the sun and wind that are uncontrollable fact.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So the. We also want to tomorrow, though, how each single power source may influence the final price of the of the energy on the market. So we need to do accurate forecasting soap.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Diction models. In particular, we. We developed a method for the meter for predicting one they had production. This is 'cause you have to declare to state the day before the energy that you will put in the in the market that the day after and you have to be precise up to 10290% OK if you are here or is more than 10% you pay, you pay the penalty. So here we have. We have a. We gathered some historical data and real time data of production and we used some some prediction gathered from numerical weather prediction model and its audience prediction. That is an important. Factor especially for for photovoltaic source.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So the first part of the work was the data collection and loading. Here we have sensors to play, place it on complaints that collect this data and sent it at different rates. We can set different rates of collection, one minute, 50 minutes, one hour and then. Three radius data are collected by PDS. The prediction one day had weather data collected by forecast by DOT IO and also we collect altitude and as most of the sun.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
This data. A are stored in each base store. This is a a convenient solution in order to quickly organize data and search for the desired information. Because of we have also. A part of the system that is devoted to skilled user that can try some other technique in order to all up query. Excuse me in order to figure out what's going on on the data and also. We have a we have to deal with the with the distributors feature of this approach because the plants are located in different regions of the South of Italy, especially in Sicily, Calabria. That is, marriage and and abulia an that is particularly rich of renewable sources. Another tool for programming we use.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Hadoop tools, so the logical design is composed of. We tried to. Simplify the model in order to make it really into a usable, so we have only four tables that store data about the plans and collect coordinates, maintaining separation. Because also that these are factors that are important cause the actual state of our plans influence the efficiency and so the production, the projected energy. Measures that source of data observed by the sensors predicted in since we store the prediction in order to understand how to. Either curacy of the mining algorithm and weather data that are collected. Data collected by external source.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
These these are the family. The family column family that we used and we try to organize the key of the of the data in order to. To have a quick access to the data depending on the plane type or the plant ID.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Also we have the weather data that are easy to understand because relates to data.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Anne. This comes from from public services and after that we have the hardest part. That is the data preparation. As all of you know a sensor may fails or sometimes they could be biased. So we have to figure out how to normalize the data and correct it by the historical measurements. An storage on our database and other databases. So.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
We calculate the percentage of change in order to detect if a measurement is a is an outlier or not. And in case we in the case we discover that measurement is a, normally we normalize it accordingly to the to the rule that.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Set up also using. Using the. Will cooperating the cooperation with the domain experts that really work on the field everyday. So here in order to to build a model that could be really useful, we need to take into account two important factors. The temporal autocorrelation of data, and this partial autocorrelation or data. So the idea is to figure out to use directional statistics in order to. Understand how data are correlated on both dimensional time and space and. Of course we will be with you need to define a similarity measure between measurements and incorporate this similarity as a as a parameter of the model.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And this has been done all both for time and both for space. Using some docs statistics that gave us a really interesting results.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Also we we used the Lisa technique in order to work on the matrix of our plants and. After after the.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Is a very elaboration phase. We worked on the on the on the learning phase and we use neural networks. In particular we use the algorithm to air Pro plus the IT is a general purpose new neural network algorithm that use back propagation. And has been proved to be. Has been proven to be really effective in in a literature because as has been used for for energy production.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So the learning phase take place in using two different methods. The first method is hardly connection. OK, so we the input layer in the hidden layer, I have the datum. 24 data rows. So each hour every hour you we use the data collected in the in the in our data store and the output is is the prediction for the corresponding corresponding hour in the next and the next day.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And the other alternative is A is A is a is row the compared to the first one that that consider the daily prediction. And.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
A learning phase also that could be could be depicted in this.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Sway an gave us some some some information. First of all, we hear the data that we use. I know that it's required. Difficult to read it in this picture, but a as you can as you can see the some data are more useful than another data. These are the different different color an that we have and we basically use the. The most important, the two users are the latitude and logic to the information and data about temperature and Italian.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Answer. And we test. This is our this setting. Our approach our friend for framework on data collected by Sun Electrics that is a company operating in South of Italy with many plans 17 portable type plants in Italy and data were collected every 15 minutes and so we had 77131 days of a store ikle data used for training and testing data an. Probation on one 126 one and 26 days.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Yeah, hard results. And as you can see they are really, really encouraging becausw an depending on the type of setting that we that we use and depending whether or not there were temporal, correlation, cyclic cyclic information. Also this is nice because. In general, whether then weather information tends to exhibit a nice cyclic cyclic feature, but you know that in October you have more or less the same temperature and the same and the same weather condition in a specific place. But for our purposes cycle we need a different information. We need to know exactly how much. Energy we can produce, so he up a you can see that. The error that we had a it's quite in quite encourage ING and this is. Quite often in the majority of case, less than the 10% that is our limit and we have an improvement over other other approach that is. But it is quite quite relevant, and so this forces us to try it and what is currently. Done is a.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Then the testing on some on two of the photovoltaic plants that. That are managed by Sun Electrics in order to try to measure the effectiveness not only from a computer science point of view. OK, the model is good, but we are trying to understand how profitable is OK, so using this model or not using this model, how much is the revenue that you can do that you can have an? Here is the comparison between the predicted and measured the message core. And as you know, they're really close in for the majority of the of the time.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So as a conclusion, special and temporal features help us to achieve better, better prediction. An in the daily setting. So we when we have structure outputs then the the prediction were really the forecast were really accurate. Now we're going to incorporate autocorrelation missile measures in the update rule of the actor. Investigating alternative approach, we are testing it on other data sets because the data set we use are for photovoltaic. We're trying other type of. Well of renewable energy that are available and the last point that is not here, and this may be the reason for being here. Today. We're trying to have a follow up at a higher level 4 we are trying to set up a European consortium for for presenting proposal that should should be available in the early 2015. We were discussing so. I think this is this is this is a good starting point to have a nice talk, maybe later in the in the round table and.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
The. I'm ready for questions if you need.
