Our approach of detecting around news identity links in the web of data. Is the Barack Obama equality set? We want to detect the community structure in each equality set. We want an algorithm that can consider the weight of the edges. The density of the community in which our same as link exists in, and if this same as link is symmetrical or not. The distribution of this error degree on the 556 million because we're not counting the reflexive ones because by definition are now will same as which is reflexive is correct. So from this table we can see the 1st result is that the higher an error degree is, the more likely and all same as link is erroneous. The 2nd result you can see that all the same as links with another degree less than 0.4 are actually correct, judged by by the authors of this paper. The second criteria is that we took 20 random same as links with another degree higher than 0.99 and the third criteria is we combined both by taking another degree which is higher than 0.99 from the largest equality set. What kind of error degree they have in our approach? We have chosen 40 random different terms like Facebook, Strawberry, chair. We just took 40 random terms that are not the same. But we've also made sure that some of them are actually in the same equality set. It's actually the Presidency of Barack Obama linked to President Barack Obama and President Obama. And we saw that we have actually managed to assign another degree that is 0.999 which are the two only two Lincoln this equality set with this kind of error degree. So now to order and finalize my my talk, we want to just look how much messed up is a lot. So we also did other analysis that are not included in this paper about the symmetry. With the number of same as links which have higher than 0.99 error degree and we can estimate that 4% of all same all same as links in the log are actually around us. However, from all these 500 million say mass statements, there exists a number of erroneous identity links. And there has been studies that have proven that all same as is being used incorrectly in the web. For example, thing referring to a person now might refer to the web page of that person. This talk we present to you an approach to detect erroneous identity links using the same as network structure and network community structure. Our approach do not require any assumption on the data like the previous approaches in state of the art. We can see if you can include equality set size. We can combine multiple community detection algorithms combined with other state of the art approaches and maybe replace this erroneous same as links with contextual identity links. Actually what we have is a bunch of terms which do not refer to the same real world entity, like the list of countries, Albert Einstein and many other different things. We want them to be tested on real world data. I has a textual description, which is not the case in the log, for example, or the presence of schema mappings, which is also rarely the case. Overall idea of our approach is that we want to use the Community structure of the AL same as networks to assign another degree to each, same as link.