So our speaker is Doctor Ludovic Righetti. Rotary Keys Ludovic currently leads the movement generation and control group at the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems. We tried to understand is that what are good algorithms for movement control? How do you plan it and what is the right way of doing it such that you would be able to get performance that can look like this? The interaction with the environment is actually fundamental, and it's not sufficient to thinking about movement. And then you see if you want to achieve complicated tasks you want to achieve a lot of tasks at the same time. So now the notion that we have here is that we want to define different tasks independently. So the independence is the relationship that basically what defines how much. And the question is, what is the controller that is going to ultimately achieve all the tasks? So the model that we need if you care about force and motion is basically Newtons law of motion. OK, so I guess everybody knows that for a robot that looks like this it looks like this so mass. The only talks when you can apply on the Motors, but we cannot apply your target is going to move the robot in space. And then you have contact forces. Everything we've wrote so far is linear in the exploration in the talks and in the interaction forces, so that's very cool. For example, if I want to move the hand of my robot, I'm going to define the current state of the hand. I want my hand to do a circle for example, so that the desired directory overtime so I can have a position and velocity of my hand overtime. Then I can write a PID controller PD controller to track the tractor. So let's try to understand why this is interesting. Everything that I wrote so far is linear in the older models, all the tasks, all the constraints, everything is linear and I can write. So acceleration or motor torques and contact forces it's linear equality or inequality's, right? So again, is the optimal torque that I sent to my robot such that I can fulfill all those things I want to do an since everything is linear, I can write this as a quadratic program, giving accosting. Then in the second level of Jackie, I'm going to put joint limits. That's the second level. That's going to be the third level and the 4th level. So I talk about the linear and angular momentum of the robot. Momentum, linear and angular is what relates the motion of the robot to the forces that are applied on the environment. You cannot know everything about the world all the time, so you have a partially observable problem. And maybe the last thing is that if you think about manipulation, locomotion's mathematical problems, well, we don't even know how to write them down. Well, nobody knows, so there's not even well defined problems this robotics problems. So why should we care about interaction forces? Whether you're moving or you're touching an object, it's about touching something, and I'm going to make this kind of big claim.