[0.0s - 29.0s]
Welcome to the Institute colloquium. My name is Andre Grams today. The colloquium coordinator, professors equal cannot attend, so he asked me to introduce our speaker. So our speaker is Doctor Ludovic Righetti. He received his engineering diploma which is equivalent of a Masters degree and later his PhD at Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne, known as EPFL. From 2009 to 2012 he was a post doctoral fellow at a computational learning and motor Control Lab with Professor Shell at the University of Southern California. During this time, he also worked as a visiting researcher at the Advanced Telecommunications Institute, International ATR in Kyoto in Japan. Rotary Keys Ludovic currently leads the movement generation and control group at the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems. In Tubingen in Germany and holds a W2 Group leader position, which is an equivalent to an associate professor. He's also affiliated to the University of Southern California, USC in Los Angeles. His main research topics are algorithms for movement control and manipulation of robots with arms and legs. During his research, Ludovic received several awards, most notably the 2010 George Gerald PhD Award, given by the European Robotics Research Network, Iran for the Best Robotics thesis in Europe. Also, he received the 2011 IEEE RJS International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems. So this is the four robotics known virus. The best paper award. And this year he will receive the 2016 IEEE Robotics and Automation Society Early Career Award. Recently, Ludovic was awarded the European Research Council ERCO starting rent for research on dynamic robot control. Ludovic is visiting our Institute in the scope of a lateral research cooperation between Slovenia and USA, funded by the Slovenian Research Agency. So for the week, please, OK thank you Andre for the nice introduction. Hi everyone, thanks for being here. OK so I will try to explain you a bit. By the time my research is about so maybe let me start with the short.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Goes to kind of kick into the subject. So what I'm trying to do is, I would like to understand how to do that. And let's be very honest from now on, everything is going to be disappointing because we have absolutely no idea how to do that. But that's the goal. Say, how would you? How do you design? What if you if you? Give me a robot that is good. What would be the algorithms that you need to implement such that you would be able to do something like that with the machine and the question? We tried to understand is that what are good algorithms for movement control? How do you control motion? How do you plan it and what is the right way of doing it such that you would be able to get performance that can look like this? And the other question is what do these algorithms work? So try to understand what is. What is the physics behind what is the reason why certain types of algorithms would work or not? So I'm interested in locomotion so you can see on the left side someone doing locomotion so the Commission is not only working on the flat ground and it could be anything. And on the right side it's more manipulation task where the ideas you may need to manipulate the skateboard. What is central in this? In this video is what I like here is that it really shows that what really matters when you do any of those things is about interacting with the environment. Whatever you do is about touching the world, whether you're touching the skateboard in a way such that it moves the way you want, or you're touching the environment so you can prepare yourself up to go up. This person is doing with. Everything is about touching the world and it turns out in robotics not many people actually have looked into. How do you plan or control interaction? Alot of the researches about motion planning with collision free motion planning. So how do you not touch the environment? There's a reason for that because algorithmically if you start to look into Contacts, the physics becomes extremely difficult and and till recently we didn't really have any computational power to do these kind of things. But this is what we're trying to do in my research. Try to understand how to do that.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So let's try to understand why this is interesting. So first it's interesting because, well, I guess it's a very difficult problem. The best explanation why it's difficult because you don't see any robot that can do that. I think it's the necessity if we want to understand, and I don't like the word intelligence. Why? If you want to understand the enemy, So what does it mean to build machines that can make decisions autonomously? Understanding how to move is fundamental. If you don't know how to move into in the world, you cannot do anything useful, so anything that can be any autonomy that basically requires movement and there's another potential application. So if you think about you can send robots to do construction, you could send robots to in disasters when you have a house that collapse. If you could send robots to do that for us, that would be very useful. But then you need robots that can manipulate the environment. Whether you're constructing something or you go inside the house, you need to be able to open doors. You need to be able to remove collapse things. You need to be able to maybe help people inside, so having harms being able to manipulate the world is important. And legs is also really important because with wheels is not so clear how you climb, but this thing with wheels is not so clear how you get into into a house like that. More mundane applications. Obviously. The robot that can help to your dishes. There's a lot of applications for education as well as health care, and if you understand the algorithmic of motion. We can also start to think about designing also active protest prosthetics or a lot of derived application. So I'm not going to list all the things that can do. I guess it's once you understand the.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
I think it's up to peoples imagination to do interesting things with that.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Let's try to see why it's difficult. So imagine OK if you have a humanoid robot like that, why can't we do make it do very complicated and human like or very high performance tasks? So let's look at the numbers. This guy here. If you write down the state space of this of this robot that the equations of motion of this robot you have a state space that is something like 8 dimensions or plus if you start to model the fingers and things like that. Now you can imagine I don't know for people who do optimal controller. We know about dynamic programming. If you start to do something like this in the continuous space that IIT dimensions, it's it's impossible. There's absolutely no chance in the world that we will ever be able to do that. So we need to find methods to breakdown the problem. Right now. Think about sensors, so robot like this as something like 100 plus sensors. All sensor signals that you sample every millisecond. So imagine the amount of data you can create. Imagine how do you do with this data and it's again, it's extremely difficult to do anything with that, and the worst case is that this guy is not even fully actuated, so disregard can fall, and that's a huge problem. How do you control a robot that can actually fall if you have a manipulator that is bolted on the ground while it's fine, you don't have to deal with the balance of this guy, but the machine like that. You have to actually think about. How do you fall, and the dynamics is hybrid, because each time you create and remove a contact, you change basically the dynamics in the discontinuous way. So you need to think in an underactuated system. Super High dimensional, lots of sensors and hybrid, so not even completely continuous dynamics. G environment you cannot even observe the entire environment, so modeling things you don't know you cannot really do that. Observing them is really hard. You cannot know everything about the world all the time, so you have a partially observable problem. The other thing, so there's other problems as you can see the other things that you need to be very fast so if ever machine and I push the machine you have maybe 20 milliseconds to decide where you step an. If you don't make this decision within 20 millisecond, the robot is going to fall. So whatever you do, it's any computational constraints or physically impossible by gravity. You have to go faster than that. And if you take slower time then you're falling. You can think it's a very big difference when you do things on the computer you do. Computer, you have time. It doesn't matter if it takes you a second or two or ten to make a decision, right? If you're a machine that is actually in the real world, whatever you do needs to happen right now before the object falls or before the robot is falling and this is imposing a huge constraint on whatever we do. And maybe the last thing is that if you think about manipulation, locomotion's mathematical problems, well, we don't even know how to write them down. So what is the mathematical problem that defines locomotion? If you write down the math, I said if you solve this problem, you solve locomotion. What is it? Well, nobody knows, so there's not even well defined problems this robotics problems. So that should give you an idea of how that's actually difficult. So the way we do try to do that in robotics in general is that we try to breakdown these things. We try to breakdown this into subproblems and try to figure how can you break this down in sub problems that are well defined so we can solve them, and this is obviously involves a lot of different topics, right? You need to understand vision units in control. You need to understand planning, maybe machine learning and things like that, so that's what.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Doing in my group, we've been doing a lot of work on the control of robots and I'm going to show you some work today about this. We also do a lot of work on trying to understand how you represent motion. How do you represent information from sensing to improve motion to be able to be reactive when things happen and this is a non trivial problem, we have a lot of vertical work also on dynamical systems. We do work on optimal control. I'm going to show a little bit of work on that today. We use some machine learning techniques to improve. The behavioral robot. Then there's a cool concept of how do you fuse information. So if you have a lot of sensing modalities, whether it's forced motion, inertial sensing, how do you do estimation? How do you estimate quantities in an optimal way? How do you put everything together in the system? And I'm going to show a little bit about this today as well, and we also looked in. I work with colleagues on. How do you understand human? So can we learn anything from the way humans are moving around such that you can infer something about the control that maybe can be useful as a principle for designing? You know, from engineering point of view controllers, so I'm obviously going to not talk about all of these things, but I just wanted to show you an idea that actually if you want to tackle this kind of problems, you need to work on a lot of different types of problems and you need to have an integrated view on how you can solve this. Different problems such that they can be put together so.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
What I would like to show you today I would like to show some of the problems that we're working on. The controller interaction forces and because I think this is a central problem in robotics, then I'm going to show some ideas on how you do with machine learning to try to improve behavior, and then I'll show you a little bit of things. But what happens when you try to design entire systems that can maybe do manipulation autonomously? Yep. So.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So why should we care about interaction forces? So I tried to show you in the video that this is this is this is a very useful. I'm going to go further now and say if you have these guys were doing construction work, everything they're doing, whether the manipulating the environment so they're trying to construct something or they're trying to keep balance so they don't fall right. Everything is about touching something, right? Whether you're moving or you're touching an object, it's about touching something, and I'm going to make this kind of big claim. Everything that we do about manipulation, locomotion. It's all about controlling interaction forces. That's actually what manipulation locomotion is. OK, that's maybe a little extreme, but is to tell you whatever you do when you do manipulation or commotion. The only thing that matters at the end is whether whether you can control forces. If you move an object to win an object, the only thing that actually matters that tells you how the object is going to move is what kind of forces we apply on the objects enter message object is moving around, right? That's what basically defines the physics of the manipulation problem. If you're locomoting what is locomotion? Is finding a good way to. Apply forces on the environment social environment. Push back and such that you can move your solder mask forward, right? That's what locomotion is, the rest doesn't really matter the way you move your arms or whatever, as long as you don't touch anything you don't move, so you cannot move forward. That's only way to move forward is to apply forces.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So that's kind of a high level speech is not really, you know. OK, maybe it doesn't really make any sense to you, so let me let me show you a proof of there's more much more concrete of why this matters. So this is an example of work that I've done a few years ago. Let's take this quadruped robot, so it's a simulation of a robot. They try to go up this rope, and we're going to plan the motion of this robot. So we're going to take. Let's assume we take the best player in the world, right? We're going to plan the motion of the center of mass of this robot, and we're going to plan the motion of every joint of the robot. Right and then we can take a controller that is going to follow the motion of every joint. You know I applied the talks in the models such that the motion of the robot is exactly as we planned. And that's what we're going to do now. So here the only thing we do we don't think about forces right? The only thing we think about is that let's try to follow the motion exactly how it's designed it. By the planner. And if you do that well because that's the point I want to make is not going to work, so the robot is going to eventually go down and fall. So the robot is not able to go up, so you can ask the question. So maybe it's because the plan is not good, so the motion that we plan is not sufficient, right? But maybe it's something else? Maybe it's because the way we can.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The motion is not sufficient, so controlling movement is not sufficient. So now we're going to do the exact same thing. We're going to use the exact same plan. We're going to ask to the robot to move the exact same way, but what we're going to do is going to find the controller that is going to change the way we control forces on the ground, so that's kind of the big point that I'm trying to make here is that motion doesn't explain everything in the robot, so you can create forces that do not create movement. Very simple example. OK, this may be very trivial for some of you, but. If you take my two hands, OK, I can press my hands against each other right? And you cannot see my hands moving. They'd ever create motion, but I can know that I apply different types of force on my hands, right? The pressure that apply is different, so I can actually apply forces, but they do not create movement right? Same thing if I'm on the on the table, I can press the table. You know I can press. I can compress the table without any creating any movement, right? So you have you have degrees of redundancy in your control. When you move the robot then you can control it forces. But you do not create movement. So now if you create a controller that just tracks movement, you're losing part of the space that matters and the spicy part of the space that matters is can you push these forces against each other? And if you do it in an optimal way, you can make sure that the forces are within the friction code such that you are not going to sleep and this is what happens here. So here we design a controller that is going to track the exact same movement as before, but now in addition we're going to control the forces we create on the ground in a way that is optimal such that it stays within the friction code. And then you can go up. And the whole point of what I was trying to explain is that.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The interaction with the environment is actually fundamental, and it's not sufficient to thinking about movement. Movement does not describe the task that you want to care about, but describe the task is movement and forces, and you cannot get away from that. There is if you manipulate an object is even worse because you do all the internal forces you create or actually fundamental. If you want to do something useful.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
But OK, I've been expanding. Forces is really cool, but it's not everything, right? So I'm kind of lying. If I said that the only thing that matters is force. Because if I want to do a task like that, so I want to drill a hole. I want to do a lot of different things at the same time, right? I want to keep my center of mass above my support Polygon for example. So if I keep my center of mass above my support Polygon, I know I'm not going to fall, so that's an important thing to do to keep balance.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Now, maybe you want to keep the position of the drill exactly where I want to drill, right? So this is another first problem, I don't care bout the force, the only thing that matters here is the position of the drill. So that's actually a motion and position problem, but it's.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
I might want to apply a force that goes in the direction such that I can, you know, direction of the dress that I can drill. So this is the first problem.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
I might want to keep my eyes looking at the drill, so whatever I do, I need to do it such that I can still keep my head looking at the drill right? So it's important to find a configuration so I cannot drill like this, because if I'd really like this well I cannot see it right. I need to drill such that I can see it. So this is this is a position problem as well and ideally.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
I want to do all of these things together. And then you see if you want to achieve complicated tasks you want to achieve a lot of tasks at the same time. Once involving stable stability once involving keeping a position of Madrid, one involving applying force looking at how you can look at things. And this task are not necessarily compatible. So in this case it is compatible. But if I push the person then what happens? What is the task to keep doing? Well, you can try to keep looking at the drill right, but maybe you're going to fall. Maybe it's a smarter idea to maybe not look at the drill and take a step so now the task that matters most stability is balanced. So now the notion that we have here is that we want to define different tasks independently. And we want to impose your keys between the task we're going to set. Some tasks are more important than others, so if you can achieve all the tasks, then find the optimal way of watching all the tasks. But if there's some tasks that you cannot achieve, then you should their summer task that have higher priority. So whatever happens, make sure the robot is stable and then if you can, try to look at the right in the right direction. So this is what the priority means. We have different types of tasks we might want to move. We might want to apply forces and we might want to regulate implements. So the independence is the relationship that basically what defines how much. Force you're going to produce when you get really pushed, so you might want to control that. For example, for the center of mass. And the question is, what is the controller that is going to ultimately achieve all the tasks? I want too much to do and and that is going to respect the yard case that I might want to do. Anne now.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
I'm going to go a little bit into details. I want to show you a bit the algorithm so I won't go too much, but I just want to give you a flavor of the kind of things we do. So first we need the model right? So the model that we need if you care about force and motion is basically Newtons law of motion. Mass times acceleration is equal to force. OK, so I guess everybody knows that for a robot that looks like this it looks like this so mass. It's a matrix times acceleration, so that's the expiration of the joints of the robot press. The acceleration of the robot in space. So the action of its position and orientation in space. Plus, H is going to be all the forces that we know about the Coriolis gravity, friction, whatever you care. Then we have talks, so the talks as the Motors that talks produced by the Motors on the joint. So you see that you don't have you under activation because you cannot apply talks in the position of the robot in space, right? The only talks when you can apply on the Motors, but we cannot apply your target is going to move the robot in space. And then you have contact forces. OK, that's going to be our model. Now we need to contact model. So contact model is going to say I want to keep my foot if it's touching the ground are my foot is not moving with respect to the ground which means the acceleration of my foot is equal to 0 and you can write this in terms of the generalized coordinates of the equations before it. It looks like something like that but just doing coordinate transforms. Jay is the Jacobian of the of the of the task, and then maybe we need we want. In our model we need to put realistic constraints, so we need to say my forces the contact forces they need to stay within the friction code. So if I'm pushing against the table I'm not allowed to pull right? It needs to be and I can push on in certain ways such that I don't sleep, so that's why the friction code describes and I have other physical limitations, so maybe I'm going to say I've maximum talks I can apply in my Motors because my mother she cannot apply infinite torque. Maybe have jointly meet. So I need to restrict the kind of exploration I can create. And so on. And what you can see here. And because we're talking about controller. Everything we've wrote so far is linear in the exploration in the talks and in the interaction forces, so that's very cool. We're going to use that now to solve optimization problems, so everything that we wrote this linear Now if you start to integrate overtime, things are going to become nonlinear, and this is a problem. But if you just look at right now in explorations, everything is linear in those variables. The initial metrics is highly nonlinear, the Jacobian everything. All of these things are nonlinear, but the explorations talks and forces or linear.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Now we're going to defend define tasks, so we're going to define a task as a desired closer behavior. What does it mean? Is going to say what is? What is the desired feedback control that I want to see for every task? For example, if I want to move the hand of my robot, I'm going to define the current state of the hand. So the position of the hand is a function of the state of my robot, right? It's called forward kinematics. I can take the derivative of that twice and I can get the acceleration of my hand, which is just a document of Mahan times the acceleration of the entire body of my robot plus collister. So I have a plan my hand. I want my hand to do a circle for example, so that the desired directory overtime so I can have a position and velocity of my hand overtime. Then I can write a PID controller PD controller to track the tractor. So I'm going to set the reference accelerations that I would like to see from my end is going to be proportional to the error that I have between the plan and the current position of my hand, plus the proportional to the difference in velocities for the plan. So this pretty controller. So you can do the desired closed behavior. What I mean is that. The expiration of my hand, the relaxation of my hands, should be equal to the reference expiration of my hand, right? And if you replace all your variables, it looks something like that. It's a bit complicated, but the key ingredients here again.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Is that? I have some Jacobian, so that's the metrics right times and acceleration, so it's linear in my acceleration again, is it?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
To something, and if something is the desired control, but it's defined before we don't care. The only thing that matters is that I have a matrix times my decision variables equals something OK and forever.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Task we're going to write. You can invite it this way, so we're going to write equality task so that are linear in the decision variables that I told you about. And we're going to write inequality tasks because sometimes I don't care about what my center of mass is. What I care is that it stays within a certain region, right? So I can write the same thing as inequality, semi center of mass needs to be smaller than something. OK, so OK, I hope this is kind of clear so.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Everything that I wrote so far is linear in the older models, all the tasks, all the constraints, everything is linear and I can write. Everything's in the decision variables that I had. So acceleration or motor torques and contact forces it's linear equality or inequality's, right? So the question now is, what is the optimal decision variable? So again, is the optimal torque that I sent to my robot such that I can fulfill all those things I want to do an since everything is linear, I can write this as a quadratic program, giving accosting. I tried to do this is the best I can which is going to be a quality cost and you can solve it exactly first because we iteratively you can find a global solution to this problem and you can do it faster so you can run this in the control group, so that's kind of the key point of the way we're going to solve this problem.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So now we're talking about priorities, right? So what we're going to do is we're going to define, so this is an example of how you can define priorities between the different tasks. We can say I want my dynamics to be consistent to be true, so that's the first thing that matters, and I want to make sure that I don't go beyond the model limits that I have, right? It's going to be the first level of your key. Then in the second level of Jackie, I'm going to put joint limits. For example, in my contact model, while because maybe it's not so if I cannot make sure that migration limits I once I said my Christian limit is the maximum if I cannot fulfill my contact model, it's OK because it just means I'm going to sleep, but this is OK. I can deal with that. That's the second level. Then I'm going to ask the robot to move its center of mass and its angular momentum in a certain way, and maybe move the swing food. So can I step? I can control this food, right? That's going to be the third level and the 4th level. I can say I want to optimize the contact forces. What's left in my in my control, and maybe your desired posture because it may be nice to try to stand upright, and that's the fourth level and the way we.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Solve it algorithmically is we're going to write down the task, so at the linear constraints.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
The first Cherokee we're going to solve that with the quadratic program.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Then in the nullspace of this quadratic program, the ideas that you can solve with what's left of the degrees of freedom you have left. You can solve this.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
1. And and you guarantee that the solution is still optimal with respect to the.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
One and then.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Can solve the third one and.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So on and once you.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
If I finish that, you have a solution that is guaranteed to be optimal, so that's the best solution you can find to achieve all your tasks, and you guarantee that if you cannot achieve all the tasks, the higher priority tasks are guaranteed to be achieved optimally 1st, and if there's space left, then we can achieve the other ones.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
OK, so that's for the algorithm. So what we do now is that we can try this on the robot and see if it works OK, because So what we do is that we have a description of the tasks so desired motion of the fruit of my constraints, etc. I can measure the current sensor of my robot right here I can compute what is the feedback that I want for every task that I wrote before, and then my archical quality programming solver is going to find me the optimal torque and I can just send him to the robot, right?

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And that's basically what we do in every millisecond we compute the optimal solution, and we do it all the time, and we basically we have very fast control loop that is running. So before I show you the.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Results, let's see what happens if you don't do that. So now let's just ask the robot to stay straight with a PD controller and we don't actively try to regulate the balance. We don't try to control the forces on the ground, we need nothing just to show you that. Actually, balancing is not trivial, so you actually need to do actively balancing. You cannot just say I standing here, because if I push it's going to fall. You need to do something else.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
And now when you have the controller that I presented to you, this is what happens. So you see, you can get the robot. So here the robot doesn't know that it's on week platform, it just measures disturbances and tries to keep its center of mass between its feet and at the same time trying to make sure that the forces are possible to apply on the ground and at the same time try to keep a posture etc. And this the active behavior is basically allows you to balance in a way that you will not be able to do if you didn't do that activity. So it works relatively well. You can think if you if you put in the platform and you shake you like this, you might want to take a step at some point, so it's not that trivial to do that without stepping.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Right? No, I said OK, you can write tasks and things like that, so maybe what I want to show you.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Little bit now and very quickly is how do you define what is the task? So I talk about the linear and angular momentum of the robot. So what is the linear model? So the linear momentum is just the velocity of the center of mass, right? So some of the robot times relative of that, that's the that's the maximum center of mass that the linear momentum of the robot. Some of the moments apply this under mass. It's just tells you how much you're actually rotating around the center of mass you want to control that. So that's one of the.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Asking whether the question is, how do you design? What is the path that you need to follow in this space such that you can achieve the task you care? So the task you care is that I want to move my summer mass from here to there for example.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Why does he care? Well, it's actually interesting if you control the angular momentum of robot, for example to zero and hear the robot is just taking steps to show you why it's interesting is that it's a very 3 dimensional quantity right there, if we try to keep it to zero when I push the robot automatically is going to use its arms to try to keep balance, so it's a very nice way of recruiting synergies in the behavior of the robot by just thinking in the relatively low dimensional problem. So that's why it's very useful. And why in theory this makes a lot of sense is because. That's a fundamental quantity. Momentum, linear and angular is what relates the motion of the robot to the forces that are applied on the environment. Just Newton's law. The change of momentum is equal to the sum of the four external forces, so that's basically the maybe the most fundamental quantity you should care about when you want to move around like that, so it makes.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Sense. In algorithmic also in math, how does it look like well? Must I'm center of center of mass? Velocity is equal to the linear momentum, right? The serper equation? The linear momentum, the rate of change of linear momentum is just equal to the sum of the forces. So gravity plus all the contact forces. So it's just Newton's law and the other version is a angular momentum change. Rate of change is just a call to the sum of the moments that are applied on the external world, right? So what we're going to do now? So it's a problem that I want to now I'm going to consider that my external forces or my control input. So is that kind of the twist here? I cannot control them directly right? These are the external world that are doing that on me. But now I'm going to assume that I can choose what they are OK and I'm going to assume what should the environment do optimally on the robot such that the robot moves the way I want. So you can then define the cost. Let's say that's the behavior I would like to see. So for example, some of my system it forward, you can write this as a cost and you have an optimal control problem. So you can solve this optimal control problem. I'm not going to show you the details, but basically these are things that we know how to solve, maybe not necessarily very fast, but we can solve them. You can add constraints to make sure that everything is physically correct, right? So you cannot apply a random forces, you need to apply forces that are physically correct, etc. And then you have a nonconvex optimal control problem that we can solve it, and the output is going to be a desired momentum trajectory. So nerve mass plus angular momentum trajectory. We're going to get contact forces from the world that we want to achieve, and we can also compute the optimal feedback gains for for doing that so that we do that from an HR design. So now the thing I told you before is.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
So now I have this. But as I said, my contact forces, I cannot control them right? These are not things I have choice to do, but then I can plug this into my archical cupino and I told you my yoga coopey what it can do is that it can optimize the contact forces by finding the right commands for my joints to actually do that. So indirectly, once I plug this into my creepy make, you happy is going to tell me what does the model talks. I need to apply such that the environment is going to respond the way I wanted to respond, right? So then I can do these things and it works.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
So this is what happens. So here's the given example where it matters actually to look at into the dynamics. Sorry. Yeah, so this is what happens if you don't care about dynamics, you just care about kinematics. So you just ask the robot to move its feet on this relatively complicated ground so nothing is flat right now. This is what happens when you do the same, but now you start to think about forces and you plan the forces that you want to see and you can see. Now you start to create momentum. You start to create. Like for example you see agreement and the robot moves its harm to basically help itself properly go up. And it'll also moves. It fits in such a way that you can keep the forces right, so you can see that there was a sway of the hips and this is what happens when you look into the dynamics there.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Where I showed you before and if you try to control the whole thing into with the Arctic Aquatic program and all these things, this is how it looks like. So it's not perfect yet. You can see that there's a posture, for example can be optimized, but it shows that you can create physically consistent behavior that actually you can execute another dynamically, correct? Yeah, so that's interesting. And what is interesting here is that we made no assumptions about how the ground is, and we just basically use just the structure of the physical equations that we have, which are true. So we don't make any additional assumptions, while usually when you try to work on playground, people make a lot of assumptions on that. So that's actually nice.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Now we also do tests on the robot. Here, this is what happens, so there's no. There's the planning is there's no planning, so we asked over to stay here, but we still compute the optimal feedback gains to do that in one case. And here we do it. We just tuning things by hand and it was just to show that basically by doing the optimal control design in momentum. This balancing experiments really boring because the less it moves, the better it is, so the less things to see, the better.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Works, but if you do a systematic test you can see that basically with the optimal feedback design it works much better, so we can do systematic experiments and measure that explicitly. So here you see the amount of peak force you can get versus how much the standard matches moving, and you see that with the optimal design you get significantly lower motion of center of mass, which means that you get much, much better stability. And maybe more interesting here is you can do other things so you can ask.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Robot to move on one foot and then you can start to disturb the robot on the right side. What is interesting is that you can control the foot that is in the air with a very low impedance, so it's compliant. You can move it around and at the same time you can keep balance because we have this hierarchies and you can guarantee this under mass is going to stay where it should be and you can do the same if you ask the robot to move its legs right so you can have all these different tasks at the same time and you still guarantee that you're going to find solutions that are stable and things like that. So this is working relatively well in terms of disturbance rejection. This is this is among the. The best can do as far as we know in the in the literature, so it works reasonably well.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Alright, so.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Maybe quickly we don't talk about sensors at all. Everything I've done so far is to talk about models, so we write down models. We try to find optimal control solutions to these models and then we just send this to the robot. So obviously we use sense.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
So in a very busy quick. Which, so we basically did a lot of work. And how do you fuse all these sensors to basically try to get an estimation of the entire robot position in space? And also where is this under mask? What is the momentum and things like that? I'm not going to go into details, but what is interesting is that.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
We have some. There's a lot of OK. This is a bit of a mess slide, but what is interesting is that you cannot know everything about the robot, so this quantity is you cannot really see and you cannot really see them all the time. So for example, if I want to know where my center of mass is, if I assume that there's an offset in my center of mass on my model is not perfect, I can recover some of these upsets by just looking at the forces and things like that, But then I cannot recover all of them, so there's a lot of theoretical limitations of what you can observe and how you can observe it, so this is an example of things. If you do it right, you can actually. There are things relatively well, but you cannot do everything, so there's a lot of interesting questions.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
So that's kind of the end of the beginning. So my key thing is that I showed you model based techniques right? What is great is that you can guarantee optimality. It generalizes really well because we don't make any assumption of any assumptions. We just use models that can predict the future. We have guaranteed contract satisfaction, and so far this is the best thing that works for walking. So in terms of the literature, people who do walking that's what they've been using is what works best. Now there's a few catch. It's very not necessarily robust because our models are not perfect. We don't really use sensors that much, so we're very naive in the way we use sensors and the things are very complex. Computation, right? So we're solving very complicated optimization problems to do that, and maybe we can do things simpler, because if you use super high complexity computational complexity, imagine how many processors you need on the robot to be able to do like very simple task like balancing. So I'm going to quickly show you and I'm not going to go.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
The details I just want to show you some data driven approach. So what can you do with using sensors and using some learning techniques and can you do that?

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
So this is an example of what we did a few years ago. How can you learn, for example, Contacts? How can you learn fast policies and motion at the same time so you can do certain tasks. So what we do is we call is called reinforcement learning. The idea is you start with initial guess of what could be a good way of solving the problem. You explore a variations of this initial guess. You try it on the robot. You evaluate how well it does, so you have a cost that tells you how well it does. And then there's an algorithm that allows you to say, given the cost that you got for all the different trials you did, how is the next best thing you should try? And you do that iteratively until it converges to something that works, and that's the final policy. So that's very, very shallow explanation of how reinforcement learning works. But basically.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
It just tells you how you try things in the world. You see how well it works and the better it works. It tells you how you should improve overtime and eventually it should converge to a good good. Policy this is an example of what happens now. If you try to for example up in the door so the door is you know what you need to do is that you only need to move, but you also need to apply force on the handle right? And what is the right coordination of force and motion that you need to do such that you can do it? Is that the robot is learning online, so it takes roughly 2025 minutes to do that. And so we start the robot with a 0 force policy, so it goes and apply zero force. It's very safe. So what is nice with that is that since we really care about controlling forces, if you do it this way, it's very safe. You can go in interaction and you don't break the robot because you always start with a very very compliant and very safe policy and the only force that you actually apply, or the ones that are necessary to achieve the task. And you see that after after a few minutes while 20 minutes it can open the door reliably. So opening the door is maybe. Not so exciting. So we tried grasping a pen, OK, grasping a pen is also. But grasping appendage very hard, why? Because if you try to plan it is very tricky because you need to go and touch the table. This pen is so small that it's roughly the same size as the finger that you don't have a choice. You cannot just plan emotion. That is not going to go in collision if you're going to grasp and you have to go and touch the table. Now if you do that with the model given, the models are not very accurate. Most likely you're going to is not going to work, so it's very important to be able to improve what you do on by trying it on the real system and that's what it does. What it learns it learns how much force you need to apply on the on the ground, and how you should move the finger at the same time so she can pick up the pen. And then. It takes roughly the same time, so 2025 minutes, and then the robots can pick up the pen. So it works reasonably well. It's reasonably fast, and we can actually just from data that we gather from the world. We can actually get things that are non trivial to plan. That would be that's very difficult actually to plan with models. This kind of behavior. This is to show you that it's important to control the forces if you don't control them and just replay the motion. It doesn't work as I explained you before. Controlling forces more than just moving. OK. So yes, that's that's a. That's another additional technique that you can use from using data. OK.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Now the the other thing we've been thinking about is that when you achieve a task over and over, so if I pick up a bottle sets 100 times, somehow it always feels the same, right? So if I try to pick up a bottle, it always my sensors. I know what to expect. I know that I'm expecting my bottle to touch my palm, right? So let me touch the tip of my finger. I know something is wrong and I know I need to correct my behavior right when you walk. Same thing if you work you expect to touch the ground at certain time. If it doesn't happen at a certain time, you know that you need to extend more your leg or to do something, or you know you're going to fall if there's there's no way to prevent the fall, but somehow you can predict how things are going to feel right in the in the future. So the question we ask, can we execute the task, record all the sensors and basically build a statistical model of how things should feel for the robot from executive task? And the second thing is that can we use this information to directly control and change the behavior of the robot? So should you try to stick to how you build your model in sensors, right? And this is what up.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
If you do that, so again, I'm not going into details. See. OK, sorry. OK, so here we demonstrate to the robot how to pick up this flashlight. We can plan it occurs that it doesn't really matter. So the robot picks up the flashlight, then you do it again without any money group you recall over. With sensors you can make the statistics of what the sensors look like. That's your model not as the model of the task. And then the next time we do it, we try to stick to this sensor. So now we move the flashlight 15 centimeters away. So if side you see what happens if you don't think about anything, you just execute your motion open loop. Middle is a little bit of compliance, and the right we're going to actually adapt the motion to stick to the model that we had in sensors. So pretty much the model says you need to feel a force right in the path. So if you feel forced into finger, windows needs to move its hand and here you can see it's more than just compliance, it actually changes motion. It changes plan online. And you can see that really the behavior changes. What is interesting here is that if you have to replan that online, it would be very costly. It takes a lot of computation right, but just doing this feedback on this sensor space, you can do things with very low computational power and still still does a very good job and it's very fast to do that. They are the same to pick up the Cup, right? So on the right side. You can actually pick up a Cup that was at the wrong position because the robot believed the code present in the. In the in the crosses, the Blue Cross and it's very compliant, so I can actually move the robot around. It's very safe to interact with it, so actually does a very decent job. So these things you can do, but just looking at your data and making statistics of their sensors you can learn things about when the task is what it should be, and this is something you cannot do by just looking at state space models. Have some execution of the same problem.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Alright, so here's data driven approaches. Well, they're interesting, why? Because they are inherently robust because you deal with real world, so your models there. That's the truth. OK, that's the real world, so that's good we get. We showed you things that are computationally very efficient. So when you execute the task, they take no time to compute as opposed to the optimal control techniques before models that are, you know, physics models describing Contacts and things like that is annoying. This you don't need that, just that just tells you. The problem is that it doesn't necessarily generalize. OK, so I learn how to pick up a pen. Can you pick up a different object with what I just learned? Well, it's not so clear I can do that. It's very difficult. So generalizing is a very, very difficult problem in machine learning. Kind of approaches is not very clear how you can ensure constraint satisfaction, as you know, with models I can guarantee I never go above my talking. It's an optimal way I can guarantee lots of things about the forces are applied and things like that when you learn from data, it's very hard to give guarantees like that. And the last thing is, I don't have any guarantee that what I do is optimal. And that's maybe things that is problematic if you want to think about energy consumption. For example, optimality might start to become very important if you want to optimize stability, you want to guarantee that you're as stable as possible. Things like that it could be a problem.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
But these are important things and the idea is that how do you are going to put the two things together right? And this is, I think, an open research problem that nobody's really solved yet.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
Now.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
Just to finish, I want to show you what can you do with complete system. So I showed you a few algorithms. You know it's nice you can do fun videos. What happens if you try to put all these things together? So now I have a system and that's a project to work on. When I was at USC where it was part of a project called the Art Project where we do a six teams in the US competing to achieve a bunch of manipulation tasks. And the question you would basically send your software to some test site. The other robot like this, the compiler software they run it on the robot and it needs to work. So you're not allowed to touch anything. So now we're out of the lab out of the video context. It used to work in the real world, right? And then I can just. You cannot just try to cool contact control right? You cannot just use your nice optimizer or whatever you need to have perception to understand the world. You need to be able to reason about what is the next action you need to do. You need to plan things you need to deal with the calibration problems you need to. You need to do with everything. And this is how an architecture looks.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Yeah, so this is the architecture that we had at the end. I won't go into details, but just to give you a feel that is not sufficient to solve this one algorithm on the Salem. Just going to put this bunch of algorithms together and everything works. So what we learned and kind of the hardware in this competition was a that every single thing whether you do the control, whether you care about planning, whether you care about perception, whether you care about calibration, all of these things need to work, and if one of these module doesn't work very well, nothing is going to work in your system. And it's very annoying. The second thing is that every time you make a decision about how you do your controller, it changes what you need to do in the other modules, so it's not sufficient to have a really good planner, because if my planner cannot plan forces, my first controller is useless the other way around. If my planner can plan forces, but my controller cannot control forces, and my planner in my controller is useless, right? So every decision you make in one module affects all the other modules, and it's very difficult to think into any systems approach, so we don't have an entire solution. What we did, we did a lot of. Contact control as you may be understood, that's something I like very much. We did quite some optimization for the planning because again, this is something that I think is very useful. The kind of part that was maybe not so automatic and was kind of a hack is that we had a state machine to sequence the action. So when you do a drilling task, for example, it's very hard to. How do you sequence the action automatically? While we don't know how to do that, So what we do is we had a state machine that we designed by hand. That's a first. You need to look at the drill. Then you need to pick it up. You need to make sure it's turned on then if it's turned on, the need to do so. That's a state machine that was kind of a hack. The engineered part that is not automatic and that was specific for every task. All the other things were the same for every task. And there's lots of perception and lots of calibration as well, which are not directly working with that, But the other people in the team work. Work with that. And that's fundamental. You cannot perceive the world when you cannot do anything.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
OK, so that's how it looks like when you when you run this architecture on different tasks and this kind of the so here you can we have drilling task. We had to pick up objects, put them on a paper yet to put this key in the lock and unlock the door. Pick up the phone, pick up flashlights. You can see a lot of things we do and there was very specific to our approach is that we go and touch the table all the time. We always go touch things. And a lot of other teams, they added different approach which also work well but not as well when you go into contact. So the if you don't control contact when you go and touch things you tend to break your robot right? In our case we were really good at doing that and going and touch things all the time. We're not very good at perception though. It's a lot of other teams are really good understanding the world and looking at using vision. We are not very good at that, but you know putting this key in the whole? Do you have to go in touch with the perception and the error that you have with your forward kinematics and everything that adds up? You cannot get this millimeter precision type of thing with this kind of robot, so you have to go and touch and get a guess of where things are and then having a good first control is nice because you can really push the key in without breaking anything. And if you're not completely aligned, everything is going to align itself nicely because you control forces and not positions. So overall it works relatively well. Drilling didn't work all this. All the task work 100% of the time in the test. The drilling work only 50% of the task and then putting the phone on the on the on this reset cradle. It also only work 50% of the time which is to be expected.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
I'm done so if you have to remember maybe three things out of my long blah blah. Controlling forces is really cool and it matters a lot, and it's fundamental, so we should care about it. Well, not only, but this is a central part of any manipulation or Commission part. Sensors are cool using machine learning technique can be very useful and for example to build implicit models of your interaction. And it's nontrivial to be complete systems, and every single part is important, and it's a completely open problem. How do you mix data driven and the model based control approaches? And how do you been entire systems that can do something useful in a Thomas way OK?

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
So as you can imagine, I'm not the only person who actually work on this. There's tons of people involved, so just to thank them that all these guys were basically involved into getting all the things I showed you working. So thank you. In the data driven reinforcement learning stuff, what was what did your reward function look like in the sense that? Does the system know if it's picked something up and is there a tutor in the loop indicating? Indicating whether that's happened or not or or, is it something that you get from perception? So that's that's that's an excellent question. So that's that's actually always the problem. When you do, learning is that what is your cost? How do you measure that things are getting better in the task I showed you actually was, it was relatively easy. What we did for the doors that we put you, can we add the control? But there's an IMU on the door and you can measure how much you actually turn the handle and how much the door opened. You could end up with perception, but as I said, we're not very good at that. But yeah, so you basically measure how much things have changed. I've moved. And there was the cost, so there was a very simple cost from that point of view. For the pen there was the same say how much you can lift up, end up and how much you can keep your fingers on the pen. You know how long can you do that with? Like I don't know. We measured the time which at the beginning is 0, but then it goes, yeah, so there was. These were the costs so they were relatively simple in those tasks. But depending on the task you do it becomes tricky to come up with good costs as well. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks for the nice presentation when you were speaking about this optimal control responses, the pushing the lower part of the Daleks right at the beginning of your talk. So did you actually just calculate the immediate response, or did you actually look a bit into the future? What's going to happen to get the best immediate response? Oh yes, because you said that needs to be done at one kilohertz, which means that probably you couldn't explore too much. Yeah, nothing exciting question, so when you use the entire dynamic model of the robot, things are linear and convex. If you look for the next step. If you look in more in the future, then you need to integrate and you lose convexity. So then the problem becomes very difficult to solve. So in the controller I showed you for balancing, it's all done just with the next. Next best step if you want now for the planning when the simulation was working on steps this is these are receding horizon. So you have an horizon and you look in the future and you plan this through the future. So you plan the contact forces through the future and you do that as you as you move and this is still at this is not running at a kilohertz. This is going running slower. So right now it takes that's why it's in simulation. It takes seconds to plan. But but so seconds is not fast enough. We are working into, but we also plan the entire thing so you plan like four or five steps ahead if you go back in online, you need to really plan a step ahead. 2 steps maximum after 2 steps is irrelevant. It doesn't. You don't get any information anymore. We hope we can go that to the hundreds of millisecond type of planning and that would be sufficient because we also compute the optimal feedback along the path. But we're not there yet, but there's still some work to be able to do that. Online and one more question. When you were talking about the hierarchical optimization, so you were saying that you're doing this sequentially, but isn't there a danger that if you're fully, I mean you're optimized the first level, but maybe the second level can't be done if this is optimal, But if it was suboptimal it could work. So how many times would this sequential? I mean? How much is the? Theoretically, this can definitely happen, but how much is this really a problem? So in practice it's fine. It really depends how you define your key, so you don't want to have. I think the arc is the need to be there when you have fundamental limits, so typically I cannot trade on my actuation power. I have maximum talks I can apply. There's no tradeoff to be done there that's that's a hard bound. So whatever I do, it needs to be respected, right? So this is fine. My contact models the same. I need to impose certain joint limit contact models. These are things that are very clear that this is something that matters a lot. My stability again, I need to guarantee stability if I say oh maybe I can move my hand. But then maybe I lose lose stability. While this makes lose balance. Stability Polygon no you can. You can put your level right. That's why we put you have enough degrees of freedom. We're both want to maybe move more to the center of the Polygon, but if you don't then maybe it's OK to stay more in the at the edge. So that's a point. That's why we do so. That's maybe something I should have explained better. The inequality constraints they allow you to define regions where it's acceptable to be so for the summer of mass we don't say. You don't necessary to say the sum of masses to be here. You can say it needs to be in this region as long as it's in this region, then the other task and move it in the region they're not allowed to go away outside of the region, but it can still move it inside the region. So from that point of view and inequalities, and that's why they didn't explain the whole thing. But that's why we need to use this kind of optimization techniques to include inequalities, because you cannot do that analytically because it's impossible. Yeah, if you define regions where performance is acceptable, then you can solve that with. This actually is designed to handle this kind of problems. Typically you control this under pressure 1 foot, so you said it's under pressure and doesn't should not hit the hedge, 'cause when you hit the hedge your food starts to rotate right? So you have a lot of space you can move anywhere in the within the foot and that's what we do when you hit the hedge then you didn't need to do something so I didn't show here, but we have videos where you push the robot and when the. So as long as as this under pressure is inside the feet, it's good. When it hits the hedge then you will see the robots to do very big motion to move it back. So as long as you're within operational limits, it's OK, it doesn't matter. So from that point of view the optimality doesn't break your other task. Thank you for very nice presentation. I have one question regarding your contact models because I assume that a lot of this work has been done in simulations before. So how do you model Contacts? Because the forces that that developed there will exceed this one kilohertz I guess. Or at least this. Within what we do handle this, yeah, that's it. That's a good question. So so there's two things that the model that showed is just to do the control. So we make very very simplistic assumptions because it's efficient to do feedback in the simulation. We use penalty methods to compute the compute the forces in the simulation. So not with the controller, but the simulator usually is running at slightly higher rate than the controller for stability, so penalty method is a spring damper. Basically very high stiffness spring number. I have colleagues. We use complementarity constraints as well. It seems to work decently as well. But yeah, getting good contact models for simulation is a pain. I don't need answer questions, it's OK. I would like to ask what kind of fast online quadratic programming algorithms you are using and on what hardware. Yeah, so the algorithm is so far we're using an active set method. And the implementation is a implementation called Quad prog that we found online and we tuned. So we basically changed some of the data structure and some of the some memory allocation thing too because we run on a real time operating system. So we need to guarantee some. You know there's some tricks, algorithmic tricks to make sure that you don't lose time, so it's kind of a modified version of something we found online. There's also we're talking about going towards interior point methods because they seem to be better behaved for kind of. Easy style problems, but we haven't done that yet. It works well, I mean nice. Works well. Do you do computer? I think that we have an I7 Intel processor an. So basically what happens here when you see is that it's all running on one core, so everything is running on a single core, so that the single core is running 100%. So that's in terms of performance. I don't know if it answers your question. OK, thank you. Any other question maybe? Thank you for nice presentation. It's very impressive you have shown here to waste. The first is based on physical loss of mechanics. The other. Is not based on physical loss, but on data. That means that there are two different ways. To describe the properties of the nature. One is the physics and the order is training. Or knowledge, do you know how to proceed to an optimal acquisition of knowledge or optimal training? How to make the robot that would all optimally train your robot? Do you have an idea about that? Answer No, I have no idea. The more complicated answer. Yeah, there's a way you can start to think so. I talk about Model 3, but we always have implicitly models, so this representation is used to treat to any representation you use to process data. Is a model right? So you don't necessarily to be completely model free. And start to think about. There's a lot of these algorithms that exist. You can start to think about what is the next step I should do such that I can maximize the amount of information that I would get out of that, so that would be a way, for example, to think about how do you explore to train yourself is a way to think about what is the way to maximize the information I would get about, you know the robots model and body environments model. These are visually very difficult problems because you end up in this kind of exploration expedition. Trend of trade off in learning where you need to decide. Are you trying to do? The best you know how to do are you trying to do something? Maybe that is less good, but it's going to give you more information about how to improve later. I think computationally these are completely open problems. I don't have an answer, it's just that you can try. I think there is something missing and these are how the nature works. Yeah, do we know the loss of the evolution if you know the loss of the evolution then you could proceed to optimal training into optimal learning and this is what I think the next step in the in the research, in fact. For the next several years or hundreds of years. So that's a good point. I mean, yeah, I mean, there's a lot of things we don't know, right? If you don't even go that far as evolution, say what's what's the law of control of my brain? Nobody has any idea. I mean, nobody knows. That depends on the on the on the data. Yeah, if you are swimming. Have to trade different yeah yeah. Evolution. Some are treated differently as yours. Yeah, that's a good point that comes to the question of finding the right metric to measure how well you are doing so that is going to change. That's basically the problem of cost functions, so you have. In robotics we have techniques called inverse enforcement learning where you try to from what you see how people train that you try to infer what is the performance cost that they have. It's also a very difficult problem, but this is one way actually to do that automatically. Yeah, but it's completely. There's still a lot of research to be done there. OK, maybe we should. We should leave others for questions that's difficult here, so any other question. Then I will have the final question. So you showed how your robots optimized these forces and all these algorithms. So can you tell us is this how humans do it? Or how do humans do this for walking so? What I have no idea first, I don't know, but let me say something I I'm interested in understanding how humans work, but I don't claim ever that what we do is is what humans are doing. Most likely humans don't have an explicit representation of Newton's Law of motion in their brain. I don't know how I would be so I don't know. I have no idea what humans do. I know that humans control interaction forces. There's been psychophysics. Experiment that showed that they also regulate their impedance at contact. Navy log in as shown or other things like that, so they control different tasks in different things. But whether they solve quadratic programs and most likely not, but I have no idea. OK, so. Thank you very much and let's thank the speaker again.
