It's about now about insanely large catalogs, right? It's also but insanely fast shipping. It's been underserved, right? So the net result is, you know, the basket size remains under under 1 1/2, right? We find that zip codes and it's a very simple technique, but zip codes represent a microcosm of all of the requirements I just presented in the previous slide, right? Clearly the deal itself may not have enough evidence so, so we use the priors. You you've given a deal, you just index it with where users are likely to travel to it from. For advanced ideas as well that we are exploring, clearly none of it is implemented. Of course, it's possible to just sample at night and know that that's their home. Should I look for one near home or work or along the commute path from home to work? There's a very specific reason for local users have persistent interests. So we need to allow for mixing in. So like I said we operate. Gender age group engagement stage. Tutorial, it's not just about user item matching, it's about user item context matching right? This descriptive tags, which kind of span product types, right? This is the next generation system we're building, so hopefully you'll get better emails in the future, so. But some tags are worth learning how gift worthy is this item. There is also other features of deals that are not not not not not tags or text but things like price ranges, recency of the deal and there's a whole set of features you can you can reel off there, right? If you query categorized the search right, you might look for, you know Brian's auto repair, but we do know that then that you are as a user interested in automotive repair, and you probably want a car. Tag graphs can be very specialized, they can even be human generated in the beginning. It's really now about presenting an entire experience or on the app to the user, and the more information we compile through data mining into into into structures like this, the more interesting the apps that can be generated. People who like pizzas in general probably also like Italian. What we call TDA, which is attribute to attribute correlation, allows us to do is it allows us to extend the user feature vector, right? We found that some of these other things that we know people spend so much time gathering things like age group and income level and all of those creepy things really didn't really help us a lot. An 11 aspect of that is what is the stage of engagement of the user with the application right? Laser hair removal or some of those more expensive deals like even like Invisalign which is thousands of dollars, right? But new users we would have to hook them in first right? So I think there is a number of the lookers but not buyers, right? You know you have to draw the thin line between creepiness and delight. We can go much further right with permissions of course. What we what we are trying experimenting with is people react stronger too. When it's more, what do you hit right? So so you need to mix it in. How do you keep the relevance? The price range? I mentioned these active users who keep coming back to group on they want to see something new every time they don't want to see the same thing at the same time. Then there's back off. Circulation is has its place in key Commerce and then deliberate serendipity. We need to make consumers feel like they stumbled upon something cool, but really there's no such thing as an accident. They pick up their device. Clearly searches can be personalized because often people look for things to do. You know ecommerce too though. When combined with performance signals and CF, they work well, and diversity and freshness are very important, right? It's particularly suited for discovery as opposed to search is that it's relatively low inventory. Consumers tend to have persistent interests. They're open to a bit of serendipity and adjacency and wow. Well, I think I'd like that consumers are open to also new deals around around their same interest so well. I mean though right? It's really profited from that to to a mobile Commerce company. Ann, it's 54% of our business is growing. You know merchants are expecting to be heavily featured in their first week and it's sort of like almost a forced explore exploit in that sense. We tried to put no predisposition though we could if we wanted to using prior, so I'll get to that. What we try to do is to say, how is this deal performing with this profile of users and profiles.