In a way, it's from technical perspective. Whenever we talk about big data. So we need to address different data types so old fashion, business intelligence or old-fashioned datamining usually concentrated more like on. Now this is data mining. Web 2.0, which is this one compared to big data and data mining. Not in the past, so we have well three obvious reasons, so we have increase of storage, increase of processing power in availability of data. So this is the total revenue of the company Big Data revenue and total revenue of the company. So when operations on data are complex then then big data gets complicated. Once we come to modeling and reasoning with this data, then then this can get extremely complex because of the size and we need to introduce. As long as we deal with the scale, if you deal with the scale like then simple counting can give you lots of results because just I don't know probabilistic distribution could be estimated through counting. Was the data space so so far we talked about the scale and velocity and different types of data. So we need to be aware also about scalability, streaming dimension or streaming feature. If if you talk about big data, there's another point which is related to this scale, which I said before. If we have lots of data we we can discover all kinds of patterns and we can believe them or not. So we want to find. Unrelated people so unrelated people who appear at least twice in the same hotel on the same day. This is reasonable number for 1000 days, three years. It's not true for us. So one topic is this smart sampling of data. Also in the analytics communities. Mining of massive datasets by woman and quarters. So first very processing is being hosted where data is being stored. What is the programming model? MapReduce so what's new what what's worth saying map reduces topic by itself, but the way how we approach the problem is that the problem needs to be first friendly for map reduce paradigm and basically MapReduce has this divide and conquer intuition which is old as. We split it into set of smaller problems. OK, one of the claims is big data is pretty much everywhere so. It seems that it will last, and one of the points is can we do big data without big investment?