So this work is motivated by the drug discovery process so pharmaceutical companies they are looking for new molecules that are active against some disease. Molecules with the same structure. They tend to have the same activity, so if you have a known drug molecule that has some function that you're interested in and you have a function that tells you how similarly similar to molecules are structurally, you can just look into in the big database for all the molecules that are really lying close to the given molecule an you hope they have. Define the block and bridge preserving subgraph isomorphism, and it's a variety of the general subgraph isomorphism, but also with an additional constraint that blocks are mapped onto. So with the new definition of the maximum common subgraph, you again have two molecules here, an well, the difference. So the first substructure we define this based on the block Bridge St. So what we do we? So these are a few examples of molecules and this is the way. So I've performed already some preliminary experiments and for this we use the NCA cancer data set, so it's publicly available an it has screening results for more than 70,000 compounds. An well we use in fact the 60 datasets that were made by Pierre Baldi. So Sami tells us from the group of portability, so they had they have 60 datasets, an each data set is a binary classification problem. I used the distance measure that was defined by bunker and Shearer and I to find the nearest neighbors an well. And to have an idea about the time complexity I made a few graphs so I just took a rather large molecule an I picked 1000 distances of this molecule and 1000 other molecules and I wanted to see a connection about between the number of nodes here and at the time. This further so to conclude, here we introduce the polynomial algorithm to compute the size of the maximum common subgraph between 2 outerplanar graphs, and we can use this to construct similarity measure. So I'll plan to do some more extensive experiments investigating maybe other distance measures because we only used one here and other size functions. It's interesting to compare with these. Approaches, so on the other hand, we still have 10% of molecules in this data set which we cannot handle because they're not outerplanar. So in general graphs are very suitable to represent binary relational data and well, especially for molecules. Well, it's really straightforward approach, but well, there is a known problem with this approach. So before I tell you something about our approach, I'll give you some related work. And then you will just represent a molecule by a bit string. Molecule can use existing machine learning techniques. Well, it has disadvantages. Disadvantage that you lose the graph structure, you lose the structural information, so a second type approaches, then the cost based distances of graph edit distances. So the goal of this work is to develop an efficiently computable metric or distance function on graphs representing molecules. So an well for this we can use distance measure that was already proposed by Bunk. Well. So the maximum common subgraph. You have as input to graphs G&H an you want to find the largest common substructure, so it has to be subgraph isomorphic to G as well as H an there cannot be another graph which is bigger, so I have here a very simple example. You have two molecules and. This looks very simple, but in fact the computation of the maximum common subgraph. However, we have some hope because previous work on graphs have shown that we can reduce the complexity of some algorithms if he just impose some constraints on the corrupt structure. Other interesting classes of graphs that are lying between the sequences in the trees and the General Cross at the other, and so these are all classes of graphs which are lying between these two. So a planner graph is just a graph that can be drawn in the plane. All of the vertices they have to be adjacent to the outer face, so you see all of the vertices here, they all. So an as you may have noticed, most molecules can be represented by ultra planar graphs and this is what Thomas Shortcuts showed last year and they they did some experiments with the NCI database and they showed that 95% of these molecules can be represented by outerplanar graphs.