[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good morning everyone, so I'm from the University of Leuven and the work I am presenting today on outer planar graphs is joint work with young women.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So this work is motivated by the drug discovery process so pharmaceutical companies they are looking for new molecules that are active against some disease. And well lately they have become very interested in automating virtual screening techniques and these are techniques that select automatically from a big database of molecules, a subset of interesting molecules that expresses desired function. So one way of doing this is defining a similarity measure. So you want to. Have a function that tells you that gives you an idea about how two molecules are alike, and this is based on the following observation. Molecules with the same structure. They tend to have the same activity, so if you have a known drug molecule that has some function that you're interested in and you have a function that tells you how similarly similar to molecules are structurally, you can just look into in the big database for all the molecules that are really lying close to the given molecule an you hope they have. The same function that you're interested in. 1.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Well, the first problem we have is how we represent molecules. So these are a few examples of molecules and this is the way. How can it throw them so very simple 2D drawings and when we computer scientists an well, especially this group when we look at them well we immediately immediately.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Of graphs an well turns out this is really straightforward approach to represent molecules. So in general graphs are very suitable to represent binary relational data and well, especially for molecules. It's really straightforward approach, you just represent each Atom by a vertex and each edge by a bump, and you can label the vertices, vertices and. Edges in the graph. With well, you can label the vertices with chemical elements. For example, an also labeled edges by type by types of bonds, Ann. Well, it's really straightforward approach, but well, there is a known problem with this approach. Operations on graphs are they tend to be computationally very expensive, expensive, so a lot of approaches, they just say, OK, we will avoid. Handling cross direct.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So before I tell you something about our approach, I'll give you some related work. So at one hand you had the feature based distance distances. We already saw a few examples here, So what people do is they define a set of features. This can be features that were selected by chemists, or you can also look for frequent substructures. And then you will just represent a molecule by a bit string. So is 0 if the molecule does not have the substructure. And one, if it has the substructure, so the advantage of this approach is, well, you have a vector for each molecule. Molecule can use existing machine learning techniques. It's very efficiently computable. While you can work with it. Well, it has disadvantages. Disadvantage that you lose the graph structure, you lose the structural information, so a second type approaches, then the cost based distances of graph edit distances. And we also saw an example of this earlier, and while you have many many algorithms, I will not give them. I would have just approximation algorithms that have some heuristics to avoid the computational complexity and you also have exact algorithms that do some backtracking. So in our approach in our approach, we will try to. Give an exact approach to to compute distance measures working directly with graphs. So advantages that you have, you keep the original structure of the molecule, but well, this disadvantages the efficiency which. And we will try.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
To do something about that. So the goal of this work is to develop an efficiently computable metric or distance function on graphs representing molecules. So an well for this we can use distance measure that was already proposed by Bunk. Ensure some in 1998, and it uses the size of the maximum common subgraph. So and explain you in the next slide what this is is, well, it's just the part that's the two graphs have in common, so an you can define a distance measure with it an. Well, it's a it's symmetric, so it has some nice properties like reflexivity, triangle inequality. Well. For the size of the of the graph, you can use several things so we can share. They just said OK, the size of graph is the number of vertices, but well, you could define other size functions too like number of vertices, number of plus, the number of edges.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And so on. So the maximum common subgraph. It's very simple. You have as input to graphs G&H an you want to find the largest common substructure, so it has to be subgraph isomorphic to G as well as H an there cannot be another graph which is bigger, so I have here a very simple example. You have two molecules and. I highlighted the maximum common subgraph in in bolts and OK. So you see, this is the largest sub structure that is having common. You just count the number of vertices and this is 12 here and you fill it into the formula and you have a distance between these two molecules.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This looks very simple, but in fact the computation of the maximum common subgraph. It's an NP hard problem. So for really large graphs it takes really a lot of time. However, we have some hope because previous work on graphs have shown that we can reduce the complexity of some algorithms if he just impose some constraints on the corrupt structure. So you have as really simple examples just sequences entries for which there exists really efficient algorithms, But there are a lot of. Other interesting classes of graphs that are lying between the sequences in the trees and the General Cross at the other, and so these are all classes of graphs which are lying between these two. So you have planner, graphs, graphs of bounded degree, graphs of bounded treewidth, and so on. So the task is then well, try to find trying to find. A type of class of graphs for which which we can represent molecules and for which we can device and if.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Patient algorithm. So an. We found this in the outer planar graphs and I'll briefly explain what this is. So a planner graph is just a graph that can be drawn in the plane. An outerplanar graph is a subset of this an it has some additional constraints, so if this is a planner golf and it divides the plane into some faces, this is a face. This is a phase. This is a phase and you have also the outer face around the graph and an outer planar graph. All of the vertices they have to be adjacent to the outer face, so you see all of the vertices here, they all. They are all adjacent to the outer face, so this is an outer planar graph.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So an as you may have noticed, most molecules can be represented by ultra planar graphs and this is what Thomas Shortcuts showed last year and they they did some experiments with the NCI database and they showed that 95% of these molecules can be represented by outerplanar graphs. But we still have a problem. It turns out that the subgraph isomorphism problem which we are trying to make more efficient. It's still NP hard.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
For outer planar graphs, so there's a second thing that has to be done an well. I'll first introduce some new terminology, so in a graph you have blocks and bridges and a block is maximal subgraph for which every pair of vertices is involved in a psych.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And well, this is just a ring structure in the molecule, so this is 1 block because every two vertices of the block, well, they are involved in a cycle. So and this is a second block here.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
An OK then we say a bridge is an edge that does not belong to a block.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So to go back to the example, we can say that this is a bridge. This is also a bridge, so all the edges that are not.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
In a block. So and then. Thomas Short Fat also an paper. Last year they proved that. Define the block and bridge preserving subgraph isomorphism, and it's a variety of the general subgraph isomorphism, but also with an additional constraint that blocks are mapped onto. Block sandbridge are Maps mapped onto bridges, so and they proved in a paper last year that the subgraph isomorphism problem becomes polynomial for outerplanar graphs, so an from a chemist few points, we can argue that well ring structure. Linear fragments, they usually behave differently you want.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Treating differently, let's say you have a ring structure with six carbon atoms, and you have a linear fragment where the carbon next atoms are just next to each other. You don't want to. Treat them as the same.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So this.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Is 1 argument to do this? So I'll give you a second example. So with the new definition of the maximum common subgraph, you again have two molecules here, an well, the difference. So this is the example of the previous on one of the previous slides. So what you see here is, well, you have like an additional edge here, see, see that you could add here in the normal subgraph isomorphism, but we choose not to because in this example this is a bridge, while in this example this edge belongs to a block, so we don't map this. To each other, and so we have a smaller common substructure, so of only 10 nodes, so the distance between these molecules is a little bit low.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Watch it then. OK, so we use this theory to device a new algorithm that computes the size of maximum common subgraph of two outerplanar graphs an well. It's dynamic programming approach. So what you do is you first generate all kinds of subgraphs of the two outerplanar graphs. We defined two kinds of them. I will explain them an then. Well, for these smaller steps structures you can compute solution more easily, and then you have to find a way to combine all these different. Parts into a larger structure and well, you can so you start with really simple subgraphs of 1 nodes, and you build a solution bottom map and in the end you get a solution for the whole 2 outerplanar graphs. And this.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Results in a polynomial time complexity. So the first substructure we define this based on the block Bridge St. This was also a structure that was defined already by Thomas Heard about. So if you have an outerplanar graph, you can make a tree out of it by just collapsing every block in two. One special note here, and it is a tree, so it's a really efficient structure. So what we do we? This tree we can generate all different kinds of subtrees, and for each subtree this is an example of 1 subtree here. We go again to the well, we expand the block again so that we have substructure of this original molecule, and, well, these are the structures we are working with, so the non block splitting subgraphs and what we do then is. Let's say we have already a solution for this part for this part and for this part you can compute solution for adding this this Atom by just computing a maximum matching between these three. So you have a value for. The mapping of this branch. The mapping of this one, and the mapping of this one, and it's also Democrat algorithm. That's the Hungarian algorithm that was shown before that we use to combine these solutions.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So a second structure list, the half graph an this handled the ring structures. So 1/2 graph is defined by three. Thanks so the beginning vertex. So if you have a block. Yeah, maybe I should first see in an outer planar graph you can make a Hamiltonian path that goes through a block, so. We use this too, so did you find a half graph and we choose the beginning vertex and vertex in the block? And then we say 1/2 graph. So if you also have a direction here is the clockwise direction. Half graph is the sub graph of this graph. So that starts in the beginning vertex and it just follows the Hamiltonian path from beginning vertex to the end vertex along with all the bridges that are hanging to it. So this is 1/2 graph and we can also use this structure. To efficiently compute. The size of the MCS when we compute to half graph, so this is 1/2 an example for the existing molecule example. So if you define well if you define the beginning vertex here in an end vertex here an you still have the clockwise orientation, then this is the. The sub graph and we so immediately take into account all the bridges too. And so when we have to compare two half graphs, we just have to match the beginning and the end vertex and then just compute the best parts of Inter lying sequences. Between these two notes and, well, it's you can also do it in a polynomial time. Just compute the best part you have.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So in the end, well, you get like a really big table with a simple, so you order all these solutions from small to large. So from one note to the whole structure and you just fill in the stable bottom up and in the end you get value for the whole graph. So this is basically.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
The algorithm works. So I've performed already some preliminary experiments and for this we use the NCA cancer data set, so it's publicly available an it has screening results for more than 70,000 compounds. An well we use in fact the 60 datasets that were made by Pierre Baldi. So Sami tells us from the group of portability, so they had they have 60 datasets, an each data set is a binary classification problem. It's more or less balanced, and it contains 3. 1500 examples and I checked well. 95% of all the examples are out.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
The planner. So what I just did was simple Canon classification. I used the distance measure that was defined by bunker and Shearer and I to find the nearest neighbors an well. Then for a prediction I just did majority voting an weighted voting where I wait the class with. So if you have a molecule an you have 5 nearest neighbors. I wait the classes of these nearest neighbors by the MCS that the two. So the given molecule and the neighbor having common.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So an well I did some preliminary experiments, so I just picked the 10 first datasets and well, you see here in accuracy. So it's it's averaged 70% which is a little bit worse than the results. That Swami does report it's it's 72% or something, so it's a little bit worse. And also the ABC and surround 7576 and and the results of Summit as they report, I think from 78 to 80 so. But well, we have to investigate this this more thoroughly on all the datasets and see how it compares to the exit.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Sing techniques. And to have an idea about the time complexity I made a few graphs so I just took a rather large molecule an I picked 1000 distances of this molecule and 1000 other molecules and I wanted to see a connection about between the number of nodes here and at the time. Well, here you don't really see a connection, but that is because. The algorithm is more depending on the number of vertices in a block, so this is a really difficult part matching these blocks, so I may.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
The second graph that's just gives number of half graphs here in the X axis and also the time and you see there is more clear connection an while to investigate.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Better what is bandis I wellmade graph. We just made the product of the two half graphs of the two molecules and the time I took the logarithm and, well, you see it's you can. Well it's more or less linear. These things they are because of a bad precision. I should. Do that a little bit more better, because it's when it when the time is really. Sometimes it only takes like 5 milliseconds, milliseconds to compute a distance and then it's not so precise, but well, I. I drew a line through it anyway, and you see here the coefficient is 1.3 and well this means. So here, that's the number of half graphs is of the order 1.34 an as the number of half graphs is depending on the number of vertices and unblock I say here. It's quadratic because we generate half graphs by. Just choosing every vertex as beginning and infer ticks and you have an orientation so it's quadratic and you can say that for the vertices and a block, the bond is around 5:00. But while we are still investigating of making this bump better Ann, this is only worst case because normally not all vertices in a molecule or lying in a block so well we have to investigate.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
This further so to conclude, here we introduce the polynomial algorithm to compute the size of the maximum common subgraph between 2 outerplanar graphs, and we can use this to construct similarity measure. So a metric on outer planar graphs, and while we have some preliminary results which shows a little bit worse predictive performance, but well at least the running time is not exponential anymore. So but well.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
You have to do in the future and more. There of comparison comparison. So I'll plan to do some more extensive experiments investigating maybe other distance measures because we only used one here and other size functions. And on the other hand the comparison with similar algorithms so Ceramides reported some results from the Group of Garibaldi, but also group of Paolo Frasconi is working on this. They are using 3D information two and maybe it's. It's interesting to compare with these. Approaches, so on the other hand, we still have 10% of molecules in this data set which we cannot handle because they're not outerplanar. So we're planning also to look for other properties that might be interesting. For example, it is known that a lot of molecules are graphs and bounded tree width, so boundary it's it's. It's a measure that gives you the extent. To which a graph resembles a tree, so you can also make some polynomial algorithms for this, and maybe we can combine this. So this is interesting to try.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
I too. So I want to thank you for your attention.
