[0.0s - 29.0s]
Yeah, so this is a project that came out of work with data kind, so data kind is an organization that helps connect data scientists to NGOs for social good projects. So are coauthors joyson, so she is the Chief Operating Officer of give directly, and I'll tell you more about what give directly is in a second.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Right and justice some more details on data kind just to get everyone up to speed on this and you'll be hearing more. Actually, at 6:00 o'clock in the Ignite talks. So Jake, the founder of Data Client will be making presentation there. So the data kind data core is a group of pro bono data scientists, so both Brian and I are completely doing this on a volunteer basis. We work with mission driven organizations for six month collaborations to do whatever data stuff is needed to make an impact on an NGO. Right so.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
NGO that Brandon. I started working with that the around this time last year is give directly. So the whole idea of give directly is that they want to alleviate poverty through very simple but kind of radical idea which is transferring funds to poor people directly in an unconditional way. And they do this through mobile cash transfers. And this is I mean been shown through their own randomized control trials as well as some others that. It's actually more effective than other forms of charity and.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And they give directly works is that they take an end to end approach so they do everything from start to finish by themselves. They don't do any outsourcing or subcontracting of their work, and because of that they are able to get very high efficiency on the donation. So more than 90% of each donation actually receives a recipient is received by recipient. And this is actually much much higher than most charities that are active in the world today and they are currently operating in Kenya and Uganda. Right?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So in that end to end approach. So the key one of the key steps is selecting extremely poor villages. So there's a very limited budget obviously. I mean they only have the money to give that they receive in the donations, so they would prefer to give the money to the poorest people that are that are out there and in Kenya as well as Uganda, there is no village level poverty data available, So what they would like to do is estimate the poverty level of different villages. In order to then prioritize which villages to operate in and the interesting thing in this part of the world is that the roofing material that a person lives under or a household lives under is a good indicator of the poverty level, so I'll turn it over to Brian for doing this, taking us through that. Yeah, so.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
When we first met with Givedirectly, they walked us through their current process for identifying poor households in Kenya and what it consisted of was first a census where volunteers would go door to door in these villages and ask them questions about their economic status. There are jobs and then they would also documented their houses in this manner so they would see if the house have a thatched roof or. Add a metal roof among other things, and then they would actually go after the fact and look at these houses on Google satellite images and confirm that the House was either a thatch or a metal roof.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And so this is sort of what that looks like. You can see on the right is a sort of group of thatch roof houses and on the left is a metal house and when push and I were presented with this and they had said, you know they were using Mechanical Turk to do some of this work. We thought pretty instantaneously that this is something that would be good for machine learning, just that sort of initial glance you can really clearly see that metal roof house. Sort of popping out of the image. So.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Our approach was to use image processing and machine learning to estimate the proportion of thatch roofs in the given village an. The idea here is that if you could find villages with the largest thatched proportion that you would target them for cash transfers and so the idea here was to do this sort of initial scoping. Forgive directly on a very, very large swath of territory you know go across. I think 3 different districts. In Kenya with just an algorithm.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
One of the biggest challenges in this process was to actually create a set of training data and this this process involves really two challenges. One, we needed to look at an image and say here are the houses in that image, and then the second problem would be to, once we identify the houses, can we say that the House has a thatch roof or a metal roof? And to do this we had to. Crowd source this process we are think our training set with something like 1500 images and. Just doing this by hand would have been very prohibitive, so we built a web application for this labeling process and actually tapped into the data kind network to find labellers and a testament to how incredible this community of data kind is. Is that I think we released this application on a Wednesday and Shuba who's? Employ a data kind reached out to the network and find about 10 people to label these images and I looked. I think the next Monday after the weekend and the site was down and I couldn't figure out why the site was down and I went into a panic. I thought maybe we had lost all the data that people had worked on labeling. It. Turns out that I just hadn't had foreseen the problem of people labeling every single image, so. Incredibly, 10 people went through about 1500 of these in a weekend and enabled us to. To come up with an algorithm that would help.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Givedirectly almost instantaneously and so Kush can walk you through that process of actually how we built the algorithm. Yeah, so as Brian mentioned, so we had humans trained to label these images and now it was our job to train the machine as well. So the first step would be the feature extraction part of this. So we utilized some existing image processing techniques for that purpose. So the first image processing technique that we examined was template matching. So the idea with template matching is that you have. Starting image here and you have a small Patch, so these would be let's say 400 pixels by 400 pixel images and you have a small Patch. Let's say A10 Pixel by 10 pixel Patch in here and this Patch is something that we think resembles what a roof looks like. Then we scan it over the entire image and the resulting correlation that we see between the template and the image that is behind results in response function. So wherever this response function is reddish and black ish. That's where we have a strong response, then the whitish yellow share the less response areas. So then we can threshold this response surface to get this image here and then we can do a morphological processing on that, so just find the centroids of every connected component in the thresholded image to obtain the final set of roofs, so each red red point here indicates the center of 1 roof that we've located. So that's one of the image processing techniques that we applied this.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And image processing technique was just basic color histogram of pixels. So thatched roofs and metal roofs are of different color. So the Thacher says we've seen are kind of greener and browner innocence and the metal roofs are wider and grayer, so the color histograms are good, distinguishing characteristic for the classification.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So then with those sort of features and then we learned a predictive model. So we used a random forest regression and there were two variables that we were interested in predicting in one 400 pixel one pixel image. So one was the total number of roofs and that 400 pixel phone pixel image and the other was the proportion of metal in that in that image Patch. And once we have learned that predictive model, then we can score as many new unseen image patches as we would like. So in our case we were interested in, as Brian mentioned, scoring three districts in Kenya, so that amounted to 50,000 image patches that we could then score and the result of it was these two.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
These two heat Maps that show the estimates so the one on the right, the red one, is the number of roofs, so that is indicating that. The density of houses essentially and this part of Canada. This is kind of a Lake region, so they're known lives here. This is a main town, so it's actually it's nice that we're seeing a lot of yellow here, and this is the proportion metal that we've estimated. So again, so in this kind of Maine town area there's I mean more metal roofs, and there's some poor areas in different parts. So then the last step for us is to aggregate these heatmaps to obtain village level metal roof proportion. So.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
This map shows the village boundaries in this part of Kenya, and we've done a weighted average according to the two variables that we estimated previously in order to obtain the village level proportion medal. So in order to do this, there was actually some work involved behind the scenes that Brian did a lot of which was working out the village boundaries because the geographic coordinates of the these very fine school village boundaries was not available in a format available for computer ingestion. So there is a lot of lot of effort put into do that, but the final result was then basically ranked list. So there's about 500 villages and we can prioritize so the browner ones are the ones. In which give directly would like to operate in.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Right, so this was piloted in February, so out of those 500 or so villages give directly used our prioritized list to select 50 Kenyan villages, and in that campaign they actually moved $4,000,000 in cash transfers to recipients. In those 50 villages. And using this data driven approach saved around 100% days of manual effort and this is in comparison to their existing process, which was they would have had to send staff members to all 500 or so villages to estimate going to conduct. Census is an estimate, the poverty there. So it was a big savings in terms of both the total number of hours as well as the duration, so they could start all their other processes quickly and be more consistent as well in terms of the estimates.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So in terms of some future work, so as I mentioned, there was quite a bit of manual effort in getting these village boundaries taken care of, so that's something that we would be interested in either crowdsourcing or automating in some manner. The starting point was actually these PDF files of Maps of Kenya, which weren't so easy to work with. And then the other thing. So since February we've had interactions and seeing how this is progressed. So one issue that we're seeing is that actually a lot of times in this part of the world, especially around metal houses, they'll build separate structures for kitchens and for sleeping quarters for boys that have reached puberty but haven't gotten married yet. So the approach that we had been using would have counted the main house and these separate structures that are still part of the same household as separate separate houses, and so we're working to address that so that everything that's really one household gets counted as one household. And one final comment is that remote sensing has many more applications in social good besides just this very specific application to give give directly. So yeah, so that's kind of the summary of the work that we've done, and we wanted to thank.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Caroline 9 piali from give directly as well as the data kind folks Jake Brian who's in the audience? I think over here, Dave Chappelle, Peter, Julia Craig and the crowd labor lawyers as well for helping us get to this point as well as everyone else in day to kind of give directly. So yeah, I mean, and I would encourage everyone to get involved with data client because. Being involved with social good projects is a great way to, I mean contribute to the world and we have this supposed to do so. So thanks.
