Then we will discuss in more detail some technologies for media fragment creation, annotation and these technologies include the temporal segmentation of video to sorts. The further temporal segmentation of it to scenes. So what exactly do we want to do when we say, for instance, temporal segmentation to sorts will have a brief overview of the literature in this particular area, then a closer look to one or two media mixer promoted approaches for doing this, some indicative experiments and results to get an idea of. The related work to sort segmentation can be generally organized according to the data that you work with. So starting with compressed video segmentation methods, this reduce the computational complexity of the processing by avoiding the full decompression of the video so they play with features such as the DC coefficients of the city, coded video or the motion vectors in MPEG video. There are many techniques that range from pairwise pixel comparisons and the comparison of global histograms to other techniques that even use local visual features or bag of words or even even do actually matching of local features along frames to find differences. These features and the differences of them along time you can evaluate either by using thresholds, which is the simplest approach, but thresholds are often hard to tune. In general, as we will see later on, also we can get high detection accuracy and relatively low computational load even when working with uncompressed data. The Macbeth color histogram and aluminum center of gravity. Recall and the F score Precision is the fraction is defined as the fraction of detected sorts. That's correspond to actual source of the video. And recall is the fraction of actual source of the videos that have been successfully detected, so it's how many of the actual source we have there were detected and how many were missed. And our media mixer proposed media mixer promoted method runs in about real time, so it's a little little bit slower than real time. Some conclusions about the shot detection before we proceed to see segmentation so the overall accuracy of South detection methods is high. It's about 90%. The detection of gradual transitions and the handling of intense local and global motion is still a bit more challenging, so abrupt transitions we can very easily detect. Intense motion can sometimes lead to the detection of erroneous changes. We have media items which can be long videos, for instance, or sets of images or long text. We want to enable fine grained access to the media and particularly discussing video. We need to break down its media item to meaningful fragments and then of course we want to annotate it's fragmente so that we can make it searchable as some of the previous. So this makes it feasible. So what is a scene as seen as a higher level temporal video segment which is elementary in terms of the semantic content covering either a single event or several related events taking place in parallel. The basic assumptions that are typically made when it comes to seem segmentation is that first of all assault cannot belong to more than one scenes, so we assume that if we have shot segmentation 1st and then we try to group the sorts then we can successfully detect since we don't miss any scene boundaries. In terms of related work, this can be generally organized according to the data that we work with, so we have unique model versus multimodal approaches. The dependence or not on specific domain knowledge, and the domain of choice. As the name suggests, use just one type of information, typically visual cues, so they come as an extension of visual sort segmentation, whereas multiple ones combined visual cues with audio, speech transcripts, and other kinds of information. Knowledge about the specific domains to exploit, for instance, knowledge about the structure of news and this helps us to do a scene segmentation more effectively. Some are graph based. This is based on the same transition graph which was proposed by Young Yoann you in 1998. Removed if a single one of them is if a single edge is removed then this graph ends up being two disconnected graphs. And then the approaches to do to create sets of sin transition graphs using different kinds of information. Features and we do a probabilistic merging of their results. This is a sequence of consecutive frames taken without interruption by a single camera. So sought, segmentation means finding the boundaries of these changes between between salts. It makes sense to break it down first into fragments into sorts and then identify the few concepts the few objects or events that relate to this particular fragment. What is more interesting is this diagram, which shows the contribution of the different types of information to this process. So since segmentation is less accurate than the short segmentation we saw in the previous case, our results were in the order of 90%, but still the results are good enough for improving access to meaningful fragments in various applications. Video segments as as result of the linking process so it facilitates access more meaningful access to the video. Then we have the representation of these features using a bag of words or feature vectors, or a number of other techniques. So in order to build a competitive system for concept detection, one needs to use of course the. Correct, kind of features which are typically rotation and scale invariant descriptors sometimes also color invariant, sometimes using actually color based features so that you get also the color information in this process. Sift, surf and color variants of them. Although these are for limited use compared to visual features. Support vector machines are the most usual choice, although there are other possibilities such as using multi label learning approaches. Do you have two layers stacking architecture which means that we have a first layer where we build multiple independent concept detectors based on support vector machines. We construct low dimensional model vectors so we aggregate the results of constant detection for a number of different concepts. So these are two dimensional slices of 3D video volume with one dimension in time and one dimension in space. Here we maintain one dimension in space and one in time, so it's a different cross section. So this is 1 one technique that we used for introducing into the process some kind of temporal information information about the temporal evolution of the video signal. So this is for instance an example of a sort change we have here a few frames that are obviously taken without interruption. The visual content suddenly changes and this is a sort change. And here a bit a few more details about the stacking approach that we used to take into account the concept correlations. Then we construct a model vector by concatenating the responses of these concept detectors. And we use this train and MLK and then model. Some conclusions here looking also at the results of previous years because concept detection is a very active area of video analysis concept detections has progressed a lot in the past few years. The concept detection results are far from perfect, but when looking at using them for concept based retrieval they can already be useful in real applications, so most information is of course important, but extracting the traditional motion descriptors is computationally expensive and This is why most approaches work with keyframes and we've also introduced the Tama graphs which. Linear support vector machines are very popular as a machine learning method for developing the individual concept classifiers and then using a second layer of multi label learning for exploring the concept correlations is also an approach that can introduce significant gains. These low level features and the event labels that we have. The second approach is to use a model vector based approach which is using the concept detection results as a stepping stone for performing event detection. Another step of machine learning that tries to map these concept detector responses to the event labels. The basis of the media mixer promoted approach for event detection, so we have, of course, temporal video segmentation at first 2 sorts. This is baseline for all the processing. We apply a set of trained visual concept detectors which typically are SVM based detectors and we have constants in the order of hundreds. So a few 100 concepts. Way and we can have also gradual changes where again the visual content changes but it changes over a period of time or over a sequence of frames. And this is for instance that dissolve where we can see that the two completely different visual contents they blend at some point and one changes to the other. So the performance of the event detection system increases by discarding irrelevant or noisy concept detections. This is what our mixer, subclass, discriminant analysis or any other discriminant analysis technique we do. So we use multiple classifiers per concept, not just one. The low level features of course, are also important, and several other studies have shown that when it comes to event detection, it is the motion features that are the most important out of all the different types of low level features that we can use followed in decreasing. We mean to find instances of a specific object within a single video or within a collection of videos. So we have an object of interest. So there are various extensions to this baseline, which for instance include the combined use of key points and motion information. Using the bag of words representation for pruning, the set of possible matches, and then do the more expensive. Looking for the for the object of interest in these selected keyframes. If there is no detection there, then we don't bother to try to process all the other frames of that sort, but instead we just move to the next sort and the next representative keyframes the next sort. But B&C, so how this object may appear in the video? Very small part of the frame. So we try to address this by preprocessing the original image so when someone the user says that this is the object I'm looking for, we automatically generate a zoomed in instance by taking the center part of that frame and also assumed out instance and then we use all these three images for doing the matching and matching with any one of them. Zoomed in or zoomed out instances of the object. In many cases, the algorithm is quite fast, so about 10% or even less of the videos duration for performing their detection, and this process includes the whole processing of the video, so also the. Of course with the exception of such segmentation. Detection of objects is possible. As I already commented on the choice of objects plays a significant role. And of course the GPU, but I didn't go into details of what processes we speed it up using the GPU. Is finding linking related videos or fragments of them? Talk so we discuss different classes of techniques for media fragment creation, annotation there of course several others there. An important thing to keep in mind is that not all of these possible analysis techniques. So when we have a problem in hand and we need to process a set of videos, we need to think carefully of what kind of techniques, what kind of classes of techniques it makes sense to apply and also when it comes to specific class of techniques like for instance concept detection, what kind of specific technique out of all the possibilities for concept detection we should apply to this particular content? And in most, in some or most cases, the automatic analysis results remain far from perfect. But in many cases they're still useful in the right domain or for solving the right problem. So without being misled by illumination changes which can be caused for instance by camera flash slides without being misled by fast camera movement or any object movement, any local local motion.