Doctor sessions about 7:30 evolution with information extraction and just. The work and this is a big project, so there is already about 30 people or more than 30 people involved in that, and you can find more information in the website of the project. And finally, the last box is ontology evolution. And what we have to do is to populate from multimedia content. Of course to combine different types of reasoning for enrichment and coordination this is. One of the practical problems we are facing is how do you annotate data training data for image and video? Another thing is how do you do? So what is this video about in contrast to how? One of them is that they cannot really support temporal reasoning for event detection very well, and this has to do with the fact that they are limited to two variables. Another one is handling uncertainty, which is a well known common problem, and what type of uncertainty are we going to be dealing with that at what level and so on? So what is better? Finally, in ontology evolution, as I have already said, there's an issue of combining different types of reasoning so. Incremental reasoning services to support evolution. And finally we also have problems even at the level of system system integration becausw there are. There is also an issue of finding the content and and assessing the quality. And an issue which is also the most important in this work, is to be able to show the added value of this to the end user as well as the expert user. We can get scalable multimedia analysis and evolve the knowledge that we have about the domain. User wants to view who is interested in the marathon. And as we have. And what has happened in the back of the system is that we have extracted information about the athletes from the site from official websites that are about this event and we have also populated the ontology with various images and videos about past events where these people have been have taken have taken part and we have images and video about these people so we can. Some extent and then further on, maybe the user wants to choose where to where to view the marathon from which part of the of the route? And she wants to do that by retrieving images and video of marathon events that have taken place in the City of Athens in the past. The extraction results are used to populate. We have reasoning, reasoning ends in we have matching tools, so this has. Do with ontology evolution and in terms of semantics extraction. From various sources they would apply the semantics extraction tools to analyze this data. So all this would hopefully hopefully take place automatically. Getting some ontologies, coordinating them, and so on. In terms of semantics extraction, what we believe is that simple modality is not sufficient, so the whole philosophy of the product is interfusion. And for Fusion we need to do several things that have not been dealt with. We have the multimedia ontology. We have one or more domain ontologies. Also, this interlinking between them.