[0.0s - 29.0s]
I think this is the moment we all have been waiting. Very exciting now for the past few days. Ann let me start with inviting Bushman. Check assistant to Chairman, Board chairman of the board. From there on, it's a trigger to say few words and announce the winners. Of course. Thank you. Distinguished Mayor Yiannis Pfeiffer. Your excellencies, dear young thinkers, organizers, panelists, ladies and gentlemen. To take up a challenge with gratitude for the visibility of its outcome is to create the future. Once said my friend, too much humor. Also one of the greatest climbers of the world. Trigger insurance Company as a gold partner of Challenge Future helped in seeking solutions for better future together with you young thinkers you were required to foresee future future accidents and catastrophes for the next 15 years and to find solutions and innovations either 2 for their prevention, for for timely preparation. For effective elimination of consequences or 4. Adaptation we were surprised and thrilled with the death, variety and freshness of the ideas you produced in just over two months. 124 projects from 46 countries were submitted, so together with you young thinkers from all over the globe, we have faced the catastrophes that await for us in the next century and we provide it together with you for a safer future. This is also at the same time the mission of trigger Insurance Company. We also are dealing with the future. We are assessing the risks and trying to prevent the future with analyzing the past events. At the same time as Mrs. Donita, pork said, we are aware of our wider role that we have in the SoC, so corporate social responsibility is one of our three core values that we cherish in their wallets. A tree glow. This is why we are proud to have taken up the challenge of future to us. You are all winners. My most sincere congratulations. Go to 3 three contenders which were selected by the International Committee. I now ask to join me here on the stage Zev.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Symboler from Israel. For. For the project of agricultural land deficiency, then Alexander she from Hong Kong for the project. Social Security disaster an evener a shot from Singapore. For the for the project Sustainable Living Lab, congratulations to all. Thank you, thank you. Hacker.
