So what we will go through is chemical and biological data. Actually in particular, I will illustrate some methods in silico methods to understand modes of action and they will be based on chemical data as well as biological data, namely gene expression data. So of course you do HTS screen, so at Novartis was about 50 HTS screens or so per year that will run. So if you're screening million data points every time you have 50,000,000 or so data points from that every year, and if you do that for 20 years, then of course that's quite a large number of actives and even more of inactive data points. So compounds can have subtle, subtly different effects. Those function annotations is we need to develop functional target prediction models. In the simplest case, an agonist on inhibitor. So what is the problem if we train those target prediction models, so one is the number of classes by itself, that's not necessarily problem, I should say. In absolute terms, not only in relative terms, and that's quite difficult to do, and one reason for that is that there's no reliable way to estimate underlying distributions. So this was a study we did with Eli Lilly where they were trying to find your sleeping pills and so why is that relevant? And so you have data for 500 compounds and the question is which of the bioactivity profiles of those compounds associated with good sleep. So the ones that are efficacious and have a tolerable side effect profile and the ones that are bad, bad compounds. So these are the ones that either don't work, or the ones that show untolerable side effects. Then we can look for patterns in the combinations of targets that are predicted for the good and bad compounds and the reason why we need to do this is sleeping pills are active in the CNS and you have set of dozens of different GPS in the brain that quite often legions target plus our GPA GPS is target simultaneously. We quite often still use decision trees. So this is what we tested with seven marketed rocks that were not annotated to cause sedative effects, but which were predicted to have sedative effects. So we thought, OK they have a sedative effect. OK, it's not annotated. I was actually missing in the model, so we didn't have functional effects. We don't have quantitative activities in there. So the first one is molecular structure. Whatever you make of that, that link proteins to phenotypes or changes in phenotypes, and we have some information about phenotypic response data of compounds. The other example was to another study with AstraZeneca. So that's that's words that are easily said, but probably not so easily verified. So what do you need to show in order to prove the mode of action of a compound? And so one frequent working hypothesis of CNS active rocks is that we aim for particular activity either on the target level. And it does also a conceptual question. So the data be used to test our hypothesis is that the CNS active drugs of a certain type works for modulating your transmitters. Otherwise there is something wrong with their motivation hypothesis and so the data we had was from those 100,000 reads and it was triple. In this end of the spectrum, we have trucks that have the same use. They come from the same class, but they have no functional readout similarity, so they work differently. So the first question we can ask is what is the reason if a treated particular biological system with the compound foreign effect. So I put in the compound, observed the phenotypic change cell dice for example. So how should we define the mode of action of a CNS active compound? You see similar discrepancies on the protein level as well, so you can't just say you need an antagonist of that protein either. I'm using biological readouts is likely better, but then it needs to be mechanistically related to disease and that's. So we did Western blots and what you see here is you have a compound treatment and you see the level of BCL 2 without component rendered with compound treatment without treatment with treatment in different cell lines. And so in order to, it's, how can we actually use biological data to understand modes of action. So in chemistry we can generally characterize the system reasonably well. We can basically do analytical chemistry. OK, they're different tautomers and so on and but still we can characterize it reasonably well. We can calculate descriptors so that in the composer stable generally in biological systems so that is generally I think we can handle quite well, but one problem is the size of chemical space and we have different forms of compose. So this type of connectivity is the tricky part. And but I believe gene expression that is actually quite useful, and so we used it in multiple ways. It can be GCA but gene expression space. They're always quantitative and incompletely characterized. That depends on what you eat in the morning, and of course all of that is not captured in the data that you usually have. It's quite expensive to capture Cmax data and so on. On that scale and the data quality is often not sufficient, and that means two things. And so there's quite a simple concept behind the work of people of the Broad Institute, the connectivity map work originally, so the idea is if in a disease you see a certain gene expression profile, which in a goes down, then you want to compound that down, regulates expression of DNA. One is for example to differentiate stem cells. Now it's now 35 people. So what we do is we use the expression data but also text mining. And so, and we use those types of information gene expression information in the academic context was to identify synergistic combinations with gemcitabine. Given given that it's not efficacious enough, so quite often, at least in the UK, but also worldwide Edge, insider buying is one of the few drugs that can be used in case of pancreatic cancer treatment, but survival rates are low and councils generally don't respond very well. So the question is which second drug anti cancer drug can I combine with the first truck with jumps right away? So we tested 30 compound combinations and hope they would be synergistic according to that hypothesis we had. And So what we found was that 9 out of 30 combined combinations were synergistic and the most synergistic one was from site up in with entinostat. You take a slightly different part of the plans, again different, but the end is chemistry to me, and so the question is, there's one treatment in traditional Chinese medicine SPP. It's called, is used for cardiovascular diseases, and it induces. So if you have a heart attack on in fact that drug can help generate new vascularization in the heart. For example is we can use the data that we have between molecular structure and proteins and build predictive models and no evil in the next talk will talk about that in more detail. 1000 or so don't cause the desired effect, so other commonalities with respect to the mode of action of those compounds that might hint us towards proteins and pathways involved in a certain. So to summarize, so chemical and biological data tells us something different about the mode of action of a molecule, so we have the ligand target level. Maybe gene expression data, maybe imaging data, program mix data and so on for proteomic data, and they all tell us something different about the modification of a molecule thing. It's important we only understand that if we look at it from multiple sites, we can use target prediction in gene expression data to understand parts. But binding, of course, is mediated via the surface, whatever that means again of the molecule. It's usually like that if you're trained models. And that's where you're trying to be with the molecular descriptor as well. Central Atom next layer, next layer for every heavy Atom in your molecule. So in this case you have 6789 ten heavy atoms in the molecule, so you have 10 environments in your molecule, and so these are 10 bits that would be set in your bit string.