[0.0s - 29.0s]
So in some sense, this talk will be a bit about the data, but it will also be about the meaning of the data that we analyzed, because right now, of course we have this. Well AI, let's call it hype for the time being. Question is basically what does biological data mean and some data is easier than others. If you have clicks in Facebook or Google, you click as a click. But if you have a component binding to a target and there are lots of conditions, what is the concentration? What is actually the functional effect and so on. So biological data. I believe it's much more difficult to analyze and I will point out a few of those pitfalls in my presentation as well.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So what we will go through is chemical and biological data. So what do we look at? Actually in particular, I will illustrate some methods in silico methods to understand modes of action and they will be based on chemical data as well as biological data, namely gene expression data. And Furthermore I will illustrate some problems with this term mode of action because sometimes in science is you have a term that everyone happily uses. But if you actually dig into it, what that term means trying to find what the mode of action of the drug actually is. That is terribly difficult. Now it's easy to say, but it's actually difficult to show what that really means, so I will illustrate that a little bit. And finally also talk about how we can use motivation information on the gene expression label to select synergistic compound combinations.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And So what do we look at in the group is usually those types of information. So the first one is molecular structure. So I'm a chemist by training and very happy to be a chemist. But when I was supposed to get Novartis, I realized if we don't understand biological readouts and high content screening came up. 15 years was actually patented 50 years ago, but there was no no hardware around to really do that proficiently. So 15 or 17 years ago now it became popular in practice at MIT images, and so on. And then I realized if we don't look into biological readouts. We don't understand what a compound does, so you need definitely the chemical angle. So what are chemical features of the structure in order to optimize your compound? And then you need to have some type of phenotypic response can be on the cellular level. So of course here quite a lot about the talks about high content screening, so it can be on the cellular level, but it can also be on the organ level or the Organism level or even the population level if you think about population level talks. So phenotype can mean many different things and we also have this layer here that tells us how a drug actually works. And that can mean many different things as well. It can be a protein that a ligand binds to. It can be the up and down regulation of particular jeans in different pathways. But this is a mechanistic angle of compound action. So the way you usually see that is a compound binds to protein modulates certain pathways and have a change in the phenotype. But it's actually the underlying data that we have in this triangle, so we can make quite a lot of different compounds. You can buy 20,000,000 compounds, maybe if you go to mall port, so that's quite a. Large space that you can pick from you have on the order of hundreds of millions of data points that link chemical structure to protein targets, so this is relatively information rich you could think, but in reality, if you think that chemical space contains 10 to the 60 or so molecules, and we have maybe 200,000 or so proteins in the body, so 20,000 genes different splice variants and so on. You actually see that this bioactivity data that we have is only a tiny fraction of what we could know. Then we have this pathway link. So the link between proteins and phenotypes, and this is unfortunately more human thinking than scientific reality because humans like to categorize things and put them into boxes. But in biology of course pathways constantly reconfigure, so you have slightly overexpression of particular gene and then signaling works differently in this help. So this is much more dynamic than static pathway annotations would like us to believe. And of course, if you have links between molecular structure and phenotype, one of the problem is that quite often, if we detect a particular link between the chemical structure and a phenotype, we don't have all the associated variables categorized, so we don't know what's the Geno type of the patient that chose a particular adverse drug reaction. So we have a link between a structure and a phenotype, but we don't have all the variables that characterize our system that we tested. The same is true with cells. For example the NCI. Zero 60 data set. I mean they were testing compounds in different cell lines and for years they believed there were 60 cell lines. Then it turned out it's only 59 because two of them were genetically identical and you have cell line drift anyway. I mean there many problems with that, so quite often you actually characterized compounds in a particular system and you don't know what the system is. So you happily label your train computational models, but the underlying data is sometimes not what you think it is. Answer your model cannot be as good as you would like it to be, and these are all practical problems. That I would probably recommend not to an estimate, but the point here is if you look at chemical structure as well as some type of mode of action level as well as phenotypic information, we can actually ask quite interesting questions. And the point here is there's data that links all of those domains, so we have hundreds of millions of links. Here we have some annotations of pathways. Whatever you make of that, that link proteins to phenotypes or changes in phenotypes, and we have some information about phenotypic response data of compounds. And we can you.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Set to analyze data. And usually what we can do is we take data from two of those angles and we're asking for the third. So the first question we can ask is what is the reason if a treated particular biological system with the compound foreign effect. So I put in the compound, observed the phenotypic change cell dice for example. The question is what's the mode of action? But I can also ask is which company should I make to modulate pathways so you can generate pathway focused libraries for example. So I want to modulate the Erk signaling cascade. What are the proteins I can target? So what are the 100 compounds that I pick? OK, so you can design A pathway focused library so you're trying to find out what's the chemistry need. And finally, what I can also do is I can move into the area of personalized medicine. So the question is if I have a Geno type of a patient and I put a particular drug into that patient, does that patient respond or not? And there's some areas, whether it works very well? For example, HIV now costs $10 or so to sequence the HIV viral genome over patient and then to determine what I actually the variants in particular enzyme sequences. And then you can say what's the drug that works for that patient is still tricky because we have of course, further mutations that can occur. Quite often you have different subpopulations of viruses and so on, and but still in principle that works very well. So HIV for example is manageable by just looking at the genome sequence of the virus and building on experience which drug works in which patient, and so you know which rock or cocktail in practice you're going to give and all of that is based on this triangle, so you look at molecular structure, protein information in phenotype, and you have two of those corners and based on the data that links all three of those angles, you can ask for.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Start. But it's quite a simplified view and this is what I would like to point out, because biological data is notoriously difficult, so it's not as I said, black and white data is not people clicked on those links and then they bought a car. I mean, it's a bit different if you think about biological data. So first of all, links between rocks, targets, disease and so on. They're always quantitative and incompletely characterized. There was this, I think, 2004 paper of Jordy Masters where he said that every drug on average had six or seven targets. And that was data from 15 years ago. So in practice, and most probably between 5 and 50 or something like that. But we know only maybe 10 or those links. OK, so the data we have is incomplete, even trivial data if you wish between drug target interactions, then the link between a drug and target is not a link. I mean it's not a compound binds to a target. What do you need to keep in mind is that they have different functions, different functional effects that a compound can elicit. So some compounds stimulate one signaling cascade. Some compounds the other. But if you use the wrong essay or one standard, I say you might not detect that, for example. OK, so if you do data mining and two compounds appear similar according to the label, they might do something quite different in a biological system. In biology, effects of course state dependent, so your variation between individuals, whether compound has an effect, so it treats the disease, might depend on absorption. That depends on what you eat in the morning, and of course all of that is not captured in the data that you usually have. It's quite expensive to capture Cmax data and so on. On that scale and the data quality is often not sufficient, and that means two things. One is, biology is inherently noisy, but of course that also means on the Organism level on the human level, and that's simply species variation that we have as well. So all of that makes assigning labels such as active or toxic, and so on incredibly difficult. You cannot even answer. The question. Is that drug toxic because it depends on concentrations? What's your model system? And so on that you use, and so it's very difficult to label your data for. Learning basically.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
But I don't want to sound too pessimistic here. There's something we can do and what we can do. For example is we can use the data that we have between molecular structure and proteins and build predictive models and no evil in the next talk will talk about that in more detail. So we can link which types of chemical space are active against which proteins, and why is that relevant. That's for example relevant if we have links between molecular structure and phenotype, so compounds that were screened in high content screen. For example, we observe a particular effects or we observe and that will be a later example that compose a cytotoxic or we have any any type of other link between molecular structures and phenotypes, but we want to explain why a compound shows a certain effect and all of the models we we use actually built on data experimental data. So that's a good thing because we use the data that we have, but it's also limiting in this sense of if you have really new chemistry you quite often cannot say much. So always keep in mind the models we built there. Limited by the Databus plus the descriptor that we use certain extent. We might be able to generalize, but usually in chemical space not too much, that is, that is tricky. Will talk about descriptors in a second as well. But that's the general idea. So we have more like our structures. We know what they do if we observe what they do in a cellular system, Organism, system, and then we're trying to find out what are the proteins by predicting those based on the chemical structure, we can do that, for example, for access from a high content screen. So we see we have 10 compounds that cause the desired effect. 1000 or so don't cause the desired effect, so other commonalities with respect to the mode of action of those compounds that might hint us towards proteins and pathways involved in a certain.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So this is how it conceptually looks like, so you have a database and for example this escaped database. I think now we will present the tomorrow as well that links on the order of millions of ligands or can be even 10s of millions or hundreds of millions. If you think about inactive from Pub Chem as well of legends to thousands of protein targets, so that covers them maybe a percent or few percent of all protein space we have in humans and maybe 10% or so. Or draggable small molecule druggable protein space. And so we have a links of millions of links with thousands of protein targets. So what this algorithm learns is essentially mapping which type of chemical space binds to which type of protein, and you can map both ways, so you can put in chemistry and say give me the protein target. So which kinase do inhibit? Or I can go the other way? I need to compound that inhibits kinase A&B&C, what's the right chemistry? So you simply map 1 space to the other. And if you do that, then you build models which you can use in a productive way from chemical space to target space. So you can put any new chemical structure and you can predict protein targets and you can build them in many different ways using different descriptors in machine learning methods.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And will come through that in a second. And So what? That looks like in practice is quite simple. How we can use that in practice is quite simple, so you just throw a structure in the end. So chemical structure any structure in this case is a marketed drug, and what the algorithm gives you is a list of targets. So these are the proteins that are likely according to the chemical structure of that molecule and targeted by that compound. So these are only the top targets out of a long list of 1000 or so proteins of whatever you have in your model. And So what this particular? So that there was an old model? It is actually what I did in my post Doc. So that was based on a base classifier 15 years ago or so. So what? That model tells you is a likelihood of the compound binding to the target at a 10 micromolar cut off. So this one here is a look likelihood ratio. So in principle tend to the 46 times as likely to bind as not to buy, which is quite a high value. Of course I don't know if that's realistic, probably not. So in this way you can rank all the targets with respect to the likelihood of the compound binding. So this is a. Action hypothesis, but only a hypothesis and always keep in mind, even if a compound binds to target, it does not mean it's related to the effect as well. OK, so mode of action is quite a difficult topic, but So what do you do here? Is the algorithm looks up. What do I know about related areas of chemistry and recombines features in slightly different ways? And then the question is, what is the likely targets of that compound based on the chemical space target mapping that are in the database?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And we had this question about descriptors in the first talk as well, so there's no natural way to encode molecules, and molecules are notoriously difficult if you think about bioinformatics, for example, was very nice about bioinformatics is is that you usually have sequences and that makes modeling quite a lot easier because you have natural sequences, you have transitions, it's a 1 dimensional sequence in many cases because we have protein structures, But if you model bioinformatics data on the sequence level, at least you have one dimensional representations in many cases. But molecules we unfortunately have is a 3 dimensional representation that also needs to be invariant to rotation. So if you rotate their molecules, the same molecule of course, and also if you translated and also you have different types of bonds, single bonds, they can rotate and then you have different confirmations and you can protonate your molecule in different places so you have a huge number of different representations of the molecule on the chemical level. But then the question is which of those features which representation matters? If you represent the molecule to the computer and some people prefer graph based representations and they usually quite information rich and quite short, so you just type atoms and you calculate fingerprints. For example, it based on the connectivity Mabel table. Some other people prefer surface based models. In my experience there quite computationally expensive and quite often you're adding more noise in her system than information, and that's always the question. If I had have a more sophisticated representation. Run into that problem in my PhD as well. We thought OK, the surface must work better as 3D information, so it took me a half a year to encode a very sophisticated descriptor. In the end it was terribly slow and worked, as well as the box down at fingerprint, so most sophisticated is not always the better option, especially when it comes to molecules. The connectivity table to the information is quite is quite good in many cases, but still certain things you only see in 3D of course, so it depends on the case. So graph based descriptors are quite information rich. But binding, of course, is mediated via the surface, whatever that means again of the molecule. And there's always a tradeoff. It's usually like that if you're trained models. If you're too close to the information, you don't generalize. If you're too far away, you're not specific enough, so you generalize to everything. And that's where you're trying to be with the molecular descriptor as well. So you need some kind of middle ground and what happens in many retrospective studies. So that was evaluated consistently. More less 15 years ago or so since then.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And is that those circular fingerprints became quite a in some sense of standard representation for many virtual screening settings, and so this is how they are calculated. So this is a small molecule. Small small molecule. Even so what we have here is you have an aromatic ring. If you are there heavy atoms and you're typing every every heavy Atom in your molecule. So this is an aromatic carbon. For example, if two more aromatic carbons, SP2 carbon and then you represent your molecule in patches. So you calculate this type of Patch. Central Atom next layer, next layer for every heavy Atom in your molecule. So in this case you have 6789 ten heavy atoms in the molecule, so you have 10 environments in your molecule, and so these are 10 bits that would be set in your bit string. And the reason why I believe those fingerprints work quite well is they have the right balance between being concrete and abstract, but it's quite interesting is that they capture molecules that are bio active, so if you have an active query you are quite well at recovering actives. They have different scaffolds. Yeah, and why could that be? You don't keep information of connectivity between the layers for example so, but the descriptor doesn't know is which Atom in the first layer is bound to which Atom in the next layer. So that's the right level of abstraction, so it's not a substructure, it's a fingerprint. So you're deleting this type of connectivity information and also what you don't have in there is of course long range information, but what you have is overlapping patches of the fingerprint are, so you do not explicitly encode long range information, but you have it implicitly in the overlapping patches. So that might be quite a good tradeoff, quite a good while level of abstraction.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
OK, so we use those circular fingerprints and some of the earlier models. We use random forest models. There are some more recent models by the Group of Vodka, ouzo, the lens group for example, that compare different models. Deep learning models perform best in this case and this is probably the algorithm I would use personally today as well. So use those databases, pub Cam Cambodia REF databases, fingerprints and then probably deep learning models to predict targets. And so we put the random forest models that we have, as well as all the data as well, and this particular website. So let's data set of I think 100 million or so data points that matches actives from Campbell. Or is it a million data points to inactive from pubchem, which you could use for training the escape data set that will present later is another option for that, of course.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And so we also work with Astra Zeneca and so this is the amount of data that you would have for example in pharmaceutical company. So of course you do HTS screen, so at Novartis was about 50 HTS screens or so per year that will run. So if you're screening million data points every time you have 50,000,000 or so data points from that every year, and if you do that for 20 years, then of course that's quite a large number of actives and even more of inactive data points. And so these are some of the data. The amounts of data that it could expect within pharmaceutical company. One of the problems is of course the completeness of the data matrix, so it's not always the same component that gets green. That makes training, among other things, difficult.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Another aspect is compounds are not just active against targets, so there's this aspect of functional target prediction. So compounds can have subtle, subtly different effects. If you inhibit a particular enzyme, let's say that's maybe not so important, but if you target, for example, a kinase, you can have different downstream signaling, and so that can make quite a difference in vivo. So what do you need to do? But unfortunately we don't have enough data with that. Those function annotations is we need to develop functional target prediction models. So not only predicting a target for compound, but also to model, is that compound. In the simplest case, an agonist on inhibitor. Yeah, so does it stimulate the protein? Or does it inhibit it? Of course there are more subtleties as well, but even if we did that, there will be a step forward as well. So what is the problem if we train those target prediction models, so one is the number of classes by itself, that's not necessarily problem, I should say. So we have hundreds of thousands of classes, maybe up to 5000. If we have enough data.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Bigger problem is the very imbalanced datasets, so it's different numbers of active superclass. Maybe 20 to 10,000 or so different numbers of inactive superclass, maybe 1000 to a million or so. Sometimes even zero inactive, so it can also happen. And then we have a different number of classes per compounds, so some components are noted with a single target, some with 100 target kinase inhibitors for example, and some classes are much more diverse than others and so this is the space where you're meant to estimate ideally. The absolute class likelihood. So what is the likelihood that this particular compound is binding to particular protein target? In absolute terms, not only in relative terms, and that's quite difficult to do, and one reason for that is that there's no reliable way to estimate underlying distributions. So what does background chemical space look like? You always have biases, so synthesis, synthesis bias, publication bias, and so on, so it's quite difficult to normalize that. Basically, biology you have phylogenetic trees. Yeah, evolution and so on. In chemistry we don't have that, and so it's quite difficult to estimate class likelihood based on this type of data, but you can do some empirical fitting and so it works somehow, but it doesn't work ideal.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, so we can generate a mode of action target prediction model based on by activity data. So we just used by activity data, circular fingerprints and random forests or deep learning models. And what can we use it for so we can use it to understand phenotypic readouts for example from my content screening we did that as well. 1014 I think when I was at Novartis, so to combine high content screening with a target prediction. But this example this nature chemical biology article with the people from the MIT. But this is actually more recent work that would like to present here. So this is an understanding. Read sleep data. So this is quite high level. Organism level phenotypic effects. So this was a study we did with Eli Lilly where they were trying to find your sleeping pills and so why is that relevant? Is that many sleeping pills on the market? It's actually surprisingly easy to put people to sleep, but the problem is side effects. So you take a sleeping pill. You wake up the next morning, you're drowsy, you might drive a car and get into an accident and the side effects are still a problem even with a sleeping pills on the market right now, and so they're looking for new to develop new hypnotics and what they did is data data set where they treated rat rats with sleep inducing compounds. And so you put the compound into the feed for example. And you need to. Then measure blood plasma levels. You can do that as well, and then you measure is the red asleep or is it awake and rats don't have this ever sleeping pattern like us? They don't sleep 8 hours a night, they sleep 30 times a day or so for very small periods, and they need to track if the red sleeps. Is it sleeping properly, and if it's awake, is it awake, which means that they run around, eat and drink and made, and you can observe and measure all of it. You can also measure electroencephalogram, so brain dead brain activity as well. And so you have data for 500 compounds and the question is which of the bioactivity profiles of those compounds associated with good sleep. So what does the bioactivity pattern that determines whether compound is a good sleeping pill or best sleeping pill basically? And.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So the way it looks like is like this. The data set we have is, so we have 500 compounds and we predict targets for the good compounds. So the ones that are efficacious and have a tolerable side effect profile and the ones that are bad, bad compounds. So these are the ones that either don't work, or the ones that show untolerable side effects. And for those components we can then predict targets. Let's say for the good compounds we get the targets ABC for the next component Abd and for the next one AB and for the bad compounds we get those sets of targets. Then we can look for patterns in the combinations of targets that are predicted for the good and bad compounds and the reason why we need to do this is sleeping pills are active in the CNS and you have set of dozens of different GPS in the brain that quite often legions target plus our GPA GPS is target simultaneously. So if you think about CNS active drugs, so antidepressants or anti anxiety drugs or sleeping pills, quite often you target let's say 10 or so different proteins in the brain simultaneously. So you need to look for not only single targets that they play. Explain the effect, but actually combinations of targets. And if you look into the parents here, you would probably hypothesize that the target combination AB might be related to the beneficial effect, because we have that in the good compounds, not in the bed compounds. So that would be the first hypothesis to test.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And a different way to represent this isn't the decision tree, so we use decision trees. We quite often still use decision trees. I should say also for toxicity prediction, for example because the features are interpretable and the nodes here tell you directly what are essays I could perform. For example, you have a combination of features that gives you desire to undesired effect. So many cases we actually still quite like decision trees as well. So the way you read it is from the top. So the question is, is a compound active against the? Detour receptor in this case and the H1 receptor, and so on. And so you have different combinations that give you a good sleep profile and other combinations that don't give you a good sleep profile and you see here, for example, the histamine H1 receptor. So some of the old antihistamines, for example, have a sedative side effects, so they probably would fall to some extent under this sleep profile here. And so this is only hypothesis, the computer always tells you something right? But then you have to see does that actually make sense? Does it play a role?

[493.0s - 522.0s]
In the biological context, so we need to test that experimentally. So this is a different representation, so we have different bioactivity profiles that lead to good sleep, and so one means the company needs to be active on that target. 0 means the company needs to be inactive, and a means the target is not in their sleep profile. So for example, you expect good sleep if a compound hits those three targets, or if it's active here actively active here and inactive against that one OK, and these are the profiles we tested in the next step.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
No, and you can test it on 2 levels because there are two types of hypothesis. The first one is compound binds to a target, so we need to test that hypothesis for new compounds. The next one is a compound fulfills the target profile and leads to good sleep. OK, it's two different hypothesis you need to test. So this is what we tested with seven marketed rocks that were not annotated to cause sedative effects, but which were predicted to have sedative effects. According to our analysis. OK, so they match our sleep profile and they were not annotated to be sedative right now. So we thought, OK they have a sedative effect. Although it's not known right now and so first we validated the targets so close to 80% of those were confirmed, confirmed and five out of those seven marketed drugs. And they also increase the parameters. So that means that we have drugs on the market with the package inserts. Don't tell you anything about sedative effects, but which are shown in red models with the questions of course doesn't extrapolate to humans, but the people in Lilly. Use that as their representative sleep model, but worthy. The compound shows a sedative effect on red. OK, it's not annotated. Not known in package inserts, but we tested that large majority of the compounds, at least 70% change sleep parameters. OK, so your point is, and can the computer help us understand the mode of action of compounds? So in this case I believe yes to some extent. So first the computer develops a hypothesis. What could be the mode of action involved in causing sleep? But then of course you need to test that. And there's also some reality checks. You always need to ask is the protein actually expressed in the tissue of interest? Depends always on the disease on the Organism we work with them, so it's not just about predicting. It's about putting that into context into the biological context. That is very important, but also to a good extent. Actually, the in silico algorithms helped us understand which mechanisms could lead to sleep so today.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And I think that was successful, but of course it was nearly surprising that it was successful. And there's a reason for that, because quite a lot. I was actually missing in the model, so we didn't have functional effects. So it matters whether you have a partial agonist on agonist or not agonist or whatever. We don't have quantitative activities in there. I still remember some medicinal chemistry conferences from years ago where people thought you need to have 50% receptor occupancy and some other people said needs to be 60%, so we don't know those activities in our model at all. PK PD properties in the model and so on. So it's quite a crude model, but.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
To some extent, it seems to have worked. The other example was to another study with AstraZeneca. In this case, we were trying to understand such toxicity in HTS collection. High throughput screening collection, so that's usually an undesired effect. So usually you don't want your compounds to be cytotoxic except where you want them to be. Cytotoxic where you want to kill cells and cancer, for example, so it's kind of it depends on the.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So it's even low level sepsis. These usually undesired because if you have a drug on the market, even early cytotoxic is associated with late stage it talks is the other adverse events that you observed in humans and what we did in this particular case is we.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
The data set that was tested.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
In different particular screens that were able to detect cyber toxicity of compounds. So one is testing whether these cells grow, then you have the same essay again in a dose response fashion and finally you have an essay. We test membrane integrity by said important. The point here is an aside, toxicity is not only one particular property of a compound, it depends on how you measure it. OK, so there's not a single label that you can assign. I think that's the point here, but in any case, what we ended up with. Was a few thousand compounds in the end that were associated with sidetrack Sisti. And then we could again predict targets and we could find which particular proteins are involved in causing such toxicity. So again, we can understand what I actually, the mechanisms that we can target with small molecules that are related to cytotoxic because very different. If you do biology and knockouts for example. The question is then do I seen effect but the question is can I target those proteins with small molecules and the mapping of chemical space to particular proteins? That might be quite uneven. So some of those genes might not matter in practice for small.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Your drug discovery and so that's actually the problem with most of action.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So that's that's words that are easily said, but probably not so easily verified. So what do you need to show in order to prove the mode of action of a compound? So you need to show that your compound achieves an effect. Why a particular target? But how would you do that? In practice? You cannot just show that you are compound binds to a target, for example, because the compound could cause the effect also by other targets, for example. So what you need to do in practice is quite often if you have an Organism of protein, you need to titrate with an antagonist. For example, at the same time. And then see if they affect disappears, but that's a problem because you need to show a receptor occupency in vivo, for example as well. So in practice that is quite difficult to do, so we looked into that into the mode of action in a particular case study again, CNS drug discovery and we ask the question whether we can actually understand current mode of action classes of CNS active drugs. So if we have antidepressants, anti anxiety pills, do we actually understand what they have in common? Or don't we? Because we happily classify diseases? We say those drugs are used to treat particular diseases from particular categories, so we imply that there's something in common to those diseases. Otherwise we wouldn't assign the same level.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And so one frequent working hypothesis of CNS active rocks is that we aim for particular activity either on the target level. And on the biomarker level. And and you might remember the, for example, the when it comes to depression, there was a time where there was the dopamine hypothesis and the serotonin hypothesis, so people thought there's a low dopamine level, for example, in the brain that's associated with depression to an extent that superseded now, but still, that was the hypothesis at some stage, but what is still true in any case is that there's some mode of action hypothesis that we usually need for drug discovery. Otherwise we could only do phenotypic screening. And in practice, that's cumbersome. In vivo phenotypic screening you cannot really do it, so you need to have some abstraction of a mode of action so you can have an efficient screening system. And it does also a conceptual question. Yeah, one might assume that it disease and treatment. So the modification of drugs and somebody defined. So if this depression for example, and it's notoriously difficult topic as well CNS related diseases that there's some mechanistic reason that's common, and I don't really think that's true.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So the data be used to test our hypothesis is that the CNS active drugs of a certain type works for modulating your transmitters. So specific neurotransmitters, serotonin, dopamine and so on in specific brain region, and So what people measured or the data that people compiled. It was information for 15,000 research articles, and so there was studies of about 100,000 rats, but they did microdialysis experiments. So what they did is an arete. What we can do is. You can, you can do a microdialysis so you measure neurotransmitter levels in particular 50 regions of the brain and then the question is if you give a drug and to give two drugs that come from the same class, you would expect a similar response. Otherwise there is something wrong with their motivation hypothesis and so the data we had was from those 100,000 reads and it was triple. So was the drug class ATC code. For example. Under psychotic or stimulants on the neurotransmitter and the region. So basically the question was. If you look at all antipsychotic compounds, do they change dopamine in the prefrontal cortex, for example, and you would expect if you have drugs from the same class, you see a similar response.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Yeah, yeah, and that's what he tested and so the question was, how consistent are those changes to neurotransmitter levels within and between drug classes and what we would expect is that the within group similarity is higher than the between group similarity, so there's some consistency to under psychotics, for example. But let's look at the data.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So this is what the plots look like, so here we have the intraclass similarity, and the interclass similarity. So this is the similarity between the class in between classes and on the X axis we have eternal motor similarity of neurochemical response fingerprints. So basically how similar does the brain react to a drug treatment? And one means you have identical response, so the same neurotransmitter response in the same way in the same brain region. And there are means completely different response. And you see you have quite a broad distribution. In both cases you have quite a bulk of data points at both ends. In both cases within the same class, in between classes, and have a slightly higher median in the within class similarity. So what does that tell us? It tells us many things. It has a, for example, that the similarity of drugs within a class of CNS treatments is only slightly higher than between classes and also tells other things. So for example here this end. In this end of the spectrum, we have trucks that have the same use. They come from the same class, but they have no functional readout similarity, so they work differently. Basically, on the other hand, what we have is the similarity between classes can be very high, so the drugs cost the same response pattern in the brain, but they're annotated in different ways, so they are used differently currently, but they have the same response profile, so this could be a repurposing options, and that's what we follow up with people from psychiatry in Cambridge, for example right now, but the question is, can we actually repurpose rocks from one area to another? And of course doctors have known that for quite awhile, especially with with disease clusters in CNS related diseases, that there are no clear profiles. But still there there's so little agreement of compounds from the same ATC code, and it still surprised us because it means we don't have a solid motivation hypothesis. Basically, we don't understand what diseases we don't understand, what the motive action profile is of drugs that treat very similar diseases. OK, so basically, do we actually know how we? Design drugs right now I'm not quite sure that's always the case. There's sometimes a paper that says a particular gene is involved in causing a particular disease, and that might be true on the biological level, but the question is if you don't have a small molecule targeting the same protein, do you see the opposite effect? That's a completely different question. Knocking out a gene and and then going from disease to healthy again with a small molecule. So I think there's something missing.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So how should we define the mode of action of a CNS active compound? You cannot really do that on the neurotransmitter level. You see similar discrepancies on the protein level as well, so you can't just say you need an antagonist of that protein either. Also, doesn't work, so using protein targets to explain the mode of action probably only works in narrowly defined cases, so that can be infectious diseases, but you want to inhibit viral entry, for example, or activation of particular kinds, or enzymes and so on, but not probably in more complex diseases. I'm using biological readouts is likely better, but then it needs to be mechanistically related to disease and that's.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
But often not the case, I think, and to give you a concrete example. So that's a compound where we thought we knew what it's doing, and so this is a compound. If you put it into particular cancer cells HL 60 cells you see with some of the derivatives you kill this health basically, and so the question is, if your medicinal chemists where they want to have this type of planar system but you see different responses to different compounds. If you have different R groups here, so some compounds are good activity, some don't, so. Maybe there is actually a mechanistic reason behind that, so those compounds kill cancer cells.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
That's the first observation. Then we use those target prediction tools and we put them in and PCL two was coming up.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
The top target of those compounds.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Then actually we did Western blots and then the picture and this is what real mode of action is actually looks like. So we did Western blots and what you see here is you have a compound treatment and you see the level of BCL 2 without component rendered with compound treatment without treatment with treatment in different cell lines. You see that if you treat with a compound then the PCL two level goes down OK, doesn't go to zero. No it doesn't. Do we show that BCL two is directly targeted? We also don't. Show that, but there is a mechanistic involvement quite likely of BCL two, so this is what mode of action work looks like in practice. It's much more fuzzy than you would like it to believe from.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
In silico predictions this is maybe more realistic picture of particular target predictions and gene expression data that are only related to John kinase. In this particular case. So I think more of action is quite A is a word easily set, but it's difficult to handle and pray.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Actors. And so in order to, it's, how can we actually use biological data to understand modes of action. Also go forward to select combinations of compounds that are synergistic. And that's the next question we were asking.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
And edit note on different data spaces. In my opinion, that's a bit subjectively biased, so I come from chemistry, but we use quite a lot of biological data recently as well, so that's my subjective take on those two data spaces. So in chemistry we can generally characterize the system reasonably well. We can basically do analytical chemistry. We know what the molecule is, we put into this help. OK, they're different tautomers and so on and but still we can characterize it reasonably well. I think chemical space is large, maybe 10 to 60 molecules are so small molecule space. The big problem one big problem is that compounds exist in different forms, confirmations, tautomers and so on so that we can characterize the individual compounds at least reasonably well. We can calculate descriptors so that in the composer stable generally in biological systems so that is generally I think we can handle quite well, but one problem is the size of chemical space and we have different forms of compose. Biology is one of the big problems that it operates on different levels so we have spatial levels, time, context such as cell type and sell state and so on. The space in principle. Comes to nodes. Let's say it's smaller, maybe 200,000 proteins. Also, if you still don't have enough data of that, but still, it's in principle, it's smaller, but it's highly connected unconditional. So if different cells state of different cell and protein and so on. So this type of connectivity is the tricky part. In my opinion, biology when it comes to data, we quite often don't know what the readouts we generate mean answer, we have gene expression data, but is quite often quite a noisy data and quite often also contradictory data that you're generating. And the technology, development and relevance of data don't always go hand in hand, so there's always the question do we have a pull because you need this type of data. We do have a technology push and that means gene expression data is now cheap to generate. So let's generate gene expression data. Everybody for sequencing sequencing. It's cheaper now boot sequence everything. That was the information on that. I mean, people assume 15 years ago when the human genome sequence that now we know how to direct Discovery, did that happen? Not really. So the question is always.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
It would generate relevant data for the problem at hand.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
And but I believe gene expression that is actually quite useful, and so we used it in multiple ways. So one is understanding the mode of action, the other one is re purposing and selecting compound combinations. It's again two sides of the same coin because if you understand how disease works to some extent on the gene expression level, you can use that to pick compounds that modulate disease and So what you do is you map compound to disease space via shared gene expression. It can be GCA but gene expression space. And all by a target space. And so in this particular case we use Gene Express.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Space for that mapping. And so there's quite a simple concept behind the work of people of the Broad Institute, the connectivity map work originally, so the idea is if in a disease you see a certain gene expression profile, which in a goes down, then you want to compound that down, regulates expression of DNA. So you go back to the normal state, and that's probably more pattern matching, then completely mechanistic. But in practice there seems to be indications that seems to work too, and.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Sent. So there different databases that came up, connectivity map and links for example. This is larger now their new versions. So we have 10s of thousands of compounds, profile and gene expression experiments. It's not easy data. There, different reasons for that one is selling relevant, but the dose that I'm point I need to consider and so on when it comes to reproducibility and so that's tricky data to deal with. But probably there's still enough information in there to detect signals, not really to model quantitatively in detail. But if you think about, for example, the top up and downregulated genes quite often you can do something with it and.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
And we used it for multiple purposes. One is for example to differentiate stem cells. So what you can do is you can see what is a stem cell gene expression, profile of stem cell and what is the gene expression profile for cardiomyocyte so hard muscle cell and you can use that pattern that is kind of a mode of action hypothesis which genes need to be up and down regulated. If I go from a stem cell to cardiomyocyte then you can pick a compound that induces that gene expression pattern and it takes about three weeks and I found that quite fascinating. After three weeks you'll really see a beating heart cells under the microscope. Usually use transcription factors, but they have of course administration problems in the body, so this was a small molecule that was able to differentiate stem cells based on a mode of action hypothesis from gene expression space.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
We also started a company three or four years ago or five years ago. Now it's now 35 people. So what we do is we use the expression data but also text mining. For example, in order to re purpose drugs for rare diseases. So the idea is that you have a common mechanistic basis between a common and rare disease, so common common pathway. For example this up or downregulated. So you can transfer that rock from one application to another, and so we first soon we will have our next our first component clinical trials as well. For Fragile X syndrome and there will be some other news coming.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Absolutely as well. And so, and we use those types of information gene expression information in the academic context was to identify synergistic combinations with gemcitabine. So that's the drug that's used for pancreatic cancer treatment. Given given that it's not efficacious enough, so quite often, at least in the UK, but also worldwide Edge, insider buying is one of the few drugs that can be used in case of pancreatic cancer treatment, but survival rates are low and councils generally don't respond very well. So the question is which second drug anti cancer drug can I combine with the first truck with jumps right away? So what we did here is we were looking for synergistic combinations and if you remember from before, if you have a particular disease, gene expression profile and want the drug gene expression profile to be the opposite. Ever find a drug that has completely the opposite profile? So the question is, how do I combine a second drug with the first one? And you can do that. Of course, that the additive profile of both drugs has a higher anti correlation to the disease profile and so that was the.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Prothesis of selecting compounds in this particular case. So what you see here is might be difficult to read, but the pattern is. This is the MEM gene expression profile of pancreatic cancer cells, so see Apple regulation of particular pathways, and these are gene expression profiles induced by compound treatment, so you see, they broadly look into the opposite direction, but none of them is perfectly anti correlated, and then the question was which of those drugs can be combined with gemcitabine in order to have a better anti correlation of the disease profile.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
And so we tested different compounds in different cell lines will not go into details here. One of the questions was of course we don't have pancreatic cancer cells in the links data set, so we assumed or hoped that the differential gene expression from different cell and extrapolates which may or may not be there.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Case, but then we prospectively validated. So we tested 30 compound combinations and hope they would be synergistic according to that hypothesis we had. And So what we found was that 9 out of 30 combined combinations were synergistic and the most synergistic one was from site up in with entinostat. So this is a dose response matrix. So if different doses of 1 compound of another compound and have antagonism in synergy, and you see that you have synergy across quite a wide dose range in this particular case. So here the idea was. The gene expression data tells us something mechanistic about disease as well as compound action, and we can combine different drugs based on that level in order to achieve synergy. So we use motivation information in order to combine component pick combos.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
And the final part is the work we do. Also, in a traditional Chinese medicines and is actually quite interesting if I talk in the West about traditional Chinese medicines, people quite often say oh that's bit tricky. You don't believe in that. If I talk in China, people tell me, oh, don't do signs on that. There's a secret we will never understand it anyway. So you're always in between. But in the end, I'm a chemist to me. That's simply bio active compounds. It's difficult to do quality control, I should say, because even if a plant grows under different conditions, it produces different levels of bio active ingredients. You take a slightly different part of the plans, again different, but the end is chemistry to me, and so the question is, there's one treatment in traditional Chinese medicine SPP. It's called, is used for cardiovascular diseases, and it induces. It creates new vessels, new blood vessels essentially. So if you have a heart attack on in fact that drug can help generate new vascularization in the heart. And the question here was, given the what we know about the chemistry in this particular treatment, can we say can we understand and explain how they interact pairwise?

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
And so this is what the treatment looks like. So these are some of the ingredients needs to be treated and then afterwards prepare. Of course in a particular way and what people characterizes a set of particular. Compounds that were detected in the bloodstream, so these are after you take the treatment. Of course, the question is do does get up to the Commons get absorbed and these are the compounds that are detected to be absorbed into the bloodstream and they might be synergistic when it comes to vascularization.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Of particular tissues, and So what we did here is we map the compounds to targets generated disease networks on anger Genesis network. We then calculated synergies based on that network and we try to validate the synergy predictions that we derived, so we can.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
And visualize we can visualize that. So the compounds that we have the question was which pair of compounds has the biggest synergistic effect on generating new blood vessels. And so this is the only visualization of this particular case is no longer Genesis network and we can map the compound targets on that network.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Is of course difficult to understand, so we can put it slightly differently and so we can plot the interactions between compounds and see which compounds actually show sooner. Gestic effects when it comes to building, generating new heart blood vessels.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
And this is what we tested in different essays. So there's a particular insult essay. It's called a homocysteine essay that basically inhibits generation of new blood vessels, and then the question is, do the compounds help the particular environment to generate new blood vessels after compound application? And this is what we tested and there was one particular combination of compounds that was shown to be most synergistic than others.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
So new blood vessels were generated at a much faster rate than other cases, so we did gene expression data analysis based on that that was validated by RT.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
PC aren't the end as well, and so it's difficult to read here, but we have. Here is the control treatment by one component in the other, and the combination treatment and it seems in this particular case CX CL 8, so there's a cytokine this node to be involved in vascular regeneration seems to be synergistic. Lee modulated by the combination of compounds. So what is the point here? The point is that even if we have a very complex mixture of compounds, we can do analytical chemistry. We can understand what are the ingredients in there. We can test them in combination and two gene expression data analysis. Yet to understand what is the mode of action, very likely of a particular compound mixture.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
OK.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
So to summarize, so chemical and biological data tells us something different about the mode of action of a molecule, so we have the ligand target level. This may be easier to understand for humans, but it's certainly not sufficient to understand what a molecule does, and then we have the biological level. Maybe gene expression data, maybe imaging data, program mix data and so on for proteomic data, and they all tell us something different about the modification of a molecule thing. It's important we only understand that if we look at it from multiple sites, we can use target prediction in gene expression data to understand parts. Of the mode of action of a compound, but we need to look at them together. But the point here is more affection is not uniquely defined. Different data sources provide a different part of the puzzle. Gene expression data, in my opinion, is easy to generate right now, costs only a few 100 pounds per data point. They even cheaper methods if you don't want to do my cries and you can use that to understand the mode of action, you can use it for re purposing help, synergistic select, synergistic compound combinations. So I think that's quite a useful data source in practice. Thanks a lot for everyone in the group and thanks for listening.
