Will present in particular discriminative approaches for sequence labeling learning. Finally we will present some experimental results and discuss some computational issues behind our methods and then I will conclude with some ID. They basically I don't have time to go in detail in the algorithm at the basic idea behind this algorithm. Is that mean values can be computed considering that the expected value of a sum of variable step K is given by the expected values or the sum of the previous step plus the expected value of current step. We're going to see the task of named entity recognition. An entity of interest can be location, person, organization, and in particular we consider the Spanish new wires artikkel corpus for the special session of Natural Language competition in two. 1002 we consider, in particular 300 sequences with an average length of 30 words. The first solution is to exploit the structure and the sparseness of these metrics and here and we saw that if we consider just HMM features, the number of different values in the symmetrix is linear in the size of the observation alphabet are. So to conclude, I have presented the new method for discriminative sequence labeling. We see that the accuracy is compatible with the state of the art algorithm. This method is pretty fast for large training sides and a reasonable number of features. But we also analyze the problem or sequence parts learning and sequence alignment and future work could be to test the scalability of this method to large data sets using approximate technique or to develop a dual version of the algorithm with kernels. Yet for further works, sequence labeling basically is the task of assigning labels. Why to a sequence X? They basically specify the conditional probability instead of the joint probability, but more importantly, they don't require an strict independence assumption. So when labeling an observation, arbitrary past and future observation can be taken into account. And the usual framework that is adopted in discriminative approaches for sequence labeling is to model the problem as a multi label supervised classification task. So basically they output IRA sequences and in the task is given a training set of input output values of sequences. And then once the parimeter are determined, the prediction can be made by computing the argmax of this call. We can reconstruct the label sequences given the observed sequences and the most straightforward approach in discriminately among the discriminative approaches is to define 01 loss and to minimize an upper bound on the empirical risk. What we propose it and you motivation to solve this problem and we define a new optimization criterion that we think is more appropriate for long sequences and non separable cases. We want to minimize the an upper bound on a ranking loss. In particular, it is very easy to see that the mean of the distribution is a linear function of the parameter and the variance can be expressed as a function of the parimeter as well. Ask because basically the number of possible label sequences given an observation sequence is used. In particular is exponentially in the language of the sequences, but we have devised an algorithm to compute each term of the mean vector and covariance matrix by dynamic programming algorithms. And here I'll show an example of themselves or algorithm for computing the mean of this statistic associated to transition and emission probability.