Moreover, the computational if you if we use this version of the measure, mainly the computational complexity of the measure depends from the distance tracking operator for the. The algorithm is hierarchical algorithm and as such it produce I Iraqi of clusters as output and and it is inspired through the well known K means algorithm but different from the K means algorithm in which the notion of centroid is used that is generally computed as the weighted average of the point in a cluster. We use the notion of method introducing with these. So we say we give us a input, the number of clusters that we want. The worst cluster is given by is the cluster which has the least average inner similarity. If the method of the two casr obtained are equal to the candidate medoid, we will analyze the next step, namely, we find again the worst cluster and we perform the cluster until we reach the number of the level that we want. Otherwise, for logic that doesn't allow this approximation that generally are the more aspect expressive logic, we can see the concept of class three step as a supervised learning set in which the positive example. Our positive example. While the elements that belong to the other clusters at the same level. Concept or a concept drift? Namely we have to update our clustering method with respect to the set of the new assertion that we have over the time for updating our clustering model. The other one is to consider all the new individuals and to compute this similarity with respect to demand of the cluster. This means that the candidate cluster is normal cluster. But if the candidate cluster is outside of this threshold. The global decision boundary is the average of the boundary computed for each cluster. So in this way we can consider we can compute the global decision boundary, but we can compute also the decision boundary of the candidate cluster. If the decision boundary of the candidate cluster is less than or equal to the global decision boundary, what we have is a normal cluster that is. Manual activation of my work is that ontologies are not stable over the time, rather they have over the time they evolved for two different reasons reasons because new instances are searching or because new concepts are defined, we will focus on the what happened when new instances are asserting over our asserted over the time. Of the method with respect to the global cluster model. The distance value between the method of the candidate cluster with respect to the global medal. To merge the candidate cluster with respect to the most similar cluster in the model otherwise. For doing this, we have considered several ontologies available on the web of this different complexity and for each ontology we have performed the clustering process 16 time wise existing time. For again, for computing, the dissimilarity between individual we have, we have assumed as a feature set all the concept in the knowledge base and for computing the projection function we again we have used the. We have evaluated the cluster the obtained by the of three different indices that are the generalized an index, the mean square error, and the silhouette index, the first to varying from zero 2 plus Infinity and the third one there between minus one and plus one. For the other value, what we are not really able to give a quantification of how much good are the the clusters obtained or not. But what we can see from the graph is that the knee can give us a hint of the optimal choice for the clustering. Here are some basics about concept of clustering methods, concept or costing. Methods are unsupervised learning methods whose goal is to organize in subgroup or collection of unlabeled object and the characteristic of the cluster that we obtain our that Inter class of similarity is quite high and the Inter cluster similarity is low. Concluding we have seen a year ago clustering algorithm for relational knowledge Base Express in Description logic languages. That is, a language independent and we have evaluated experimentally evaluated method proposed. The best thing to do should be to cluster D element in the candidate cluster and evaluate each cluster of the candidate cluster. And also the optimization of the measure. Because currently it is performed by a linear search. Maybe maybe I missed it, but what I didn't get is have you evaluated how good your algorithm is actually able to pick up on drift and or novelty and differentiate between the two and? OK, the reply should be one for the two questions. Particularly fun ontologies is quite large, is quite impossible because after a certain amount in a human is not able to manage it. Some references about conceptual clustering method on relational representation. The main characteristic of these algorithms that are that they produce flat output in the sense that they generate list of clusters, and that's it, but they suffer also if you have noise in the data, they suffer a lot from these disaster.