[0.0s - 29.0s]
The work that I present is a concept or clustering concept formation and novelty detection is another joint work with an equal opportunity and flow.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And I suppose you don't. During this presentation we will see the main motivation of the work, the representation language that we have considered, how we measure the similarity between individuals, the clustering procedure that we use for grouping individuals of a knowledge base, and how we use this classic model for automatically detecting new concept or concept drift. Then I will conclude with an evaluation of the clustering method. Cave.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Manual activation of my work is that ontologies are not stable over the time, rather they have over the time they evolved for two different reasons reasons because new instances are searching or because new concepts are defined, we will focus on the what happened when new instances are asserting over our asserted over the time. This action can provoke two different phenomenon in subway. One is the concept drift, namely the evolution of new cons over concept that has been already defining ontologies in the direction of our more general concept or more specific concept, and the other is the formation of new concepts that are not intentionally described but only extensionally, by by the use of assertion. The idea that we propose in this work is to automatically detect these two phenomenon by the use of. Concept or clustering method?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Here are some basics about concept of clustering methods, concept or costing. Methods are unsupervised learning methods whose goal is to organize in subgroup or collection of unlabeled object and the characteristic of the cluster that we obtain our that Inter class of similarity is quite high and the Inter cluster similarity is low. So in order to give an intuition of the process let us consider the set of object in the feature. A clustering method should be able to group. The.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Growth in this object in a meaningful way and so to grow up the circle in the arrow and so on. Moreover, if our clustering method is also able to produce an intense fire, cluster descrip.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And of the group that we have obtained, we will talk about concept or clustering methods. From this process, what is important to note is that the notion of similarity between the object that we have considering is a key aspect.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Some references about conceptual clustering method on relational representation. This is a top quite a hard topic and there are very few works in the literature. One of the most important has been proposed by Stephen Mitchell, See in 1986 and there are fewer algorithms are able to deal with the semantic standard semantic web representation. One is the cruiser algorithm proposed by kids and Mark in 1994, and the other is a CS Cape a OK. Proposed by finance at all in 2004. The main characteristic of these algorithms that are that they produce flat output in the sense that they generate list of clusters, and that's it, but they suffer also if you have noise in the data, they suffer a lot from these disaster. What we want to do is to apply a clustering method that is similarity based and as such it should be more noise tolerant and Moreover we want to produce other. How to put hierarchical structure. Of the cluster that you have.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Opting. Again, as a representation language, we consider every kind of the description, logic representation and as a similarity measure we use the same measure that we have seen in the same print.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Presentation, but the version without weight, the without weight, right? There's no particular reason for for this. The reason is that this work has been done before the other and that's it. But now I can add.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
More consideration about this measure so the definition is the same, but what? What is missing here is the weight and more other consideration about this measure. First of all, why we define a family of some distance measure? Because. The measures strongly depend from the choices of from the choice of the discriminated feature set and what we.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
We can also say is that. The similarity value will be close to zero when the individual will be instances of the same features, because in this way this difference will be will be 0, so as much is higher is the number of the feature which the individual common instances lower will be dissimilarity value or the contrary, if the individual are instances of different many different features, the dissimilarity value will increase. Moreover, the computational if you if we use this version of the measure, mainly the computational complexity of the measure depends from the distance tracking operator for the.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Doesn't description logic and since we do not use a particular any syntactical reference to representation language, we can say that this measure is language independent. An important consideration is that currently we are considering as a feature set the concept in the ontology, but we are investigating a way for learning the optimal discriminated feature set.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Now we have this measure. We want to perform the clustering of our individual in the knowledge base. The algorithm is hierarchical algorithm and as such it produce I Iraqi of clusters as output and and it is inspired through the well known K means algorithm but different from the K means algorithm in which the notion of centroid is used that is generally computed as the weighted average of the point in a cluster. We use the notion of method introducing with these. Pamp algorithm that is mainly the central element in the cluster. Mathematically speaking, speaking the expression is this one and it is the element having the lower dissimilarity value with respect to all the element in the considered cluster.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
How the algorithm works? It is a level wide algorithm in which the number of the level corresponds to the number of the cluster that we want, and this is an input parameter. So we say we give us a input, the number of clusters that we want. The first step to perform is to find the worst cluster that S will be split. The worst cluster is given by is the cluster which has the least average inner similarity. Once that we found the worst cluster, we have to split this cluster. This cluster is splitting this way. First of all the two candidates Medoid are found and the candidate Madrid are the element which have the ISD similarity value with respect to the Med over the cluster. Once that we have found the candidate medoid, the element of the cluster are spread around the candidate medoid. And in this way we have split the original cluster. At this time, we compute again the method of the two clusters that we have obtained. If the method of the two casr obtained are equal to the candidate medoid, we will analyze the next step, namely, we find again the worst cluster and we perform the cluster until we reach the number of the level that we want. If the method of the cluster that we have split are different from the candidate Metroid, we have to re perform the. The spread of the element around the candidate meta. Right now the real class. The Real Madrid will be will have the role of the candidate Medoid. We have iterated this process until we have that the real method of the cluster that have been split and the candidate made are equal or until we reached the maximum number of operation, which is the 2nd input parameter.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Here the intuition at the first step, all the element are in a unique cluster. Then we have to find the candidate and so at the first step the unit cluster will be also the worst cluster. We have to find the candidate Medidata the Medoid, that are the maximum dissimilarity with respect to do medoid of the first cluster. Let's say they are the red point here, so we have to spread now the element of the first cluster. Found the tomb Android. We will have this cluster and this cluster. Ideally we should iterate until the middle are equal. So let's say that we satisfy the first condition for going at the further level. We have to find the worst cluster. The words cluster between this one and this one. Let's say this one. So once we have to do again, we have to find the candidate. Metroid two candidate Metroid in order to split the cluster into different cluster. Let us assume that our error again, the red point. What we do is to split the original cluster around the medoid into different cluster and that's it. This is accurately repeated until the level that we have done in input is reached.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Now. We know how to perform the cluster, but our goal is to have a concept or clustering method. So we need a way for giving an intentional cluster description of the cluster data we obtain. There are two different possibility. The first one, if we consider a description logic in which it is allowed an approximation of the computation of the most specific concept or the least common subsume, are we can compute the intentional cluster description simply as the least common subsume are of the most specific concept computed for each individual in the cluster that we are considering. Otherwise, for logic that doesn't allow this approximation that generally are the more aspect expressive logic, we can see the concept of class three step as a supervised learning set in which the positive example. So the element of that belong to the cluster that we want to define. Our positive example. While the elements that belong to the other clusters at the same level. The negative example at this point we have to apply learning algorithm and learning algorithm for description logic. More expressive description logic have been proposed by as positive Italian 2004 by Lemon at all in 2006 and one of these two algorithms can be applied. So now what? We have a way for performing a classic away, forgiving intentional cluster description. The last step is to detect to detect a nuke.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Concept or a concept drift? How we do this? So we have to consider a set of assertion and what is the results of the introduction of asset or assertion. Namely we have to update our clustering method with respect to the set of the new assertion that we have over the time for updating our clustering model. We have three different possibility. One is to recompute the entire classroom model, but obviously this is quite expensive. The other one is to consider all the new individuals and to compute this similarity with respect to demand of the cluster. And then to integrate the new individual in the existing model, the terms of solution, which is the one that we have considered, is to consider the set of the new assertion as the candidate matter item. And if I wait, the nature of these these are candidate cluster.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
What is intuition? We have our clustering model. And we give up. Sort of threshold that represent our clustering model. And we have our candidate cluster. If the candidate cluster the red, the red one is inside of this threshold. This means that the candidate cluster is normal cluster. That means that it is already more than in our class and our clustering model. In this case we don't need to do anything. We simply spread each element in the candidate cluster with respect to the existing cluster and that's it.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
But if the candidate cluster is outside of this threshold. The candidate cluster can be or a novelty or adrift, if the candidate cluster is adrift and it will be merged in the clustering model with with the cluster with which it is more similar and the similarity is computed by considering the majority of the clustering of the clusters. Otherwise, if it is a new concept, it has to be introduced in the clustering model. As I knew node in our model. Specifically, it will be introduced at the level in which the most similar cluster will be found.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
The algorithm for performing this the. The idea of the threshold is computed by what we define global decision boundary. The global decision boundary is the average of the boundary computed for each cluster. The boundary for each cluster is the maximum value of the distance of. Element over cluster with respect to the medoid. So in this way we can consider we can compute the global decision boundary, but we can compute also the decision boundary of the candidate cluster. What we do is to compare this to compare the decision boundary of the candidate cluster with respect to the global decision boundary. If the decision boundary of the candidate cluster is less than or equal to the global decision boundary, what we have is a normal cluster that is. Disc

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So what we have to do, we have to spread simply the element in our model.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Indeed, indeed, instead, if the bound, the boundary of the candidate cluster is greater than the global decision boundary, we have to evaluate if the candidate cluster is adrift or a new concept we have.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Wait this, we introduce the notion of the global cluster method, which is simply the myeloid computed starting by starting from the medoid of each cluster. And compute we compute the maximum distance value. Of the method with respect to the global cluster model. The next step is to compute the distance. The distance value between the method of the candidate cluster with respect to the global medal. If this value is less than the maximum dissimilarity value, this means that our concept is adrift and what we have to do is we have to merge.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
To merge the candidate cluster with respect to the most similar cluster in the model otherwise. We have a new class if. Is it? Yeah.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
If the dissimilarity value of the class of the candidate medoid with respect to the global made OID is greater than the maximum dissimilarity value, we have a new concept and we have to add this as a node of any existing model.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Eksperiment we have performed the experiment for evaluating the nature of the clustering of the classic model that we obtain. For doing this, we have considered several ontologies available on the web of this different complexity and for each ontology we have performed the clustering process 16 time wise existing time. Because we have considered varying value of K from 5 to 20. For again, for computing, the dissimilarity between individual we have, we have assumed as a feature set all the concept in the knowledge base and for computing the projection function we again we have used the.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Better reason. We have measured the. We have evaluated the cluster the obtained by the of three different indices that are the generalized an index, the mean square error, and the silhouette index, the first to varying from zero 2 plus Infinity and the third one there between minus one and plus one.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Here are the results. For the first ontology, what we can see is that what we can say is that the silhouette value is really close to one that is the maximum. The maximum value that the Silhouette index can. So this is quite good. This means that our classing is quite good. For the other value, what we are not really able to give a quantification of how much good are the the clusters obtained or not. But what you can see because the ranges from zero until plus Infinity. So we really do not have a maximum threshold for which we can say that this cluster is good or not. But what we can see from the graph is that the knee can give us a hint of the optimal choice for the clustering. Indeed, what we can see what we can say is that. When we are close to the maximum silhouette value we find also the knee of the curve, both for the Dunn index and the mean square error. This is.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So these results are the same for the suffers water model ontologies.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
But are slightly different. For this we currently do not have a rational explanation. We are quite different for financial for the financial ontology for which we have an increasing of the silhouette value. But Danny. That we have here. Is like before the the time in which the silhouette value increase and the same for the measure.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Concluding we have seen a year ago clustering algorithm for relational knowledge Base Express in Description logic languages. This algorithm is strongly based on the use of dissimilarity measure. That is, a language independent and we have evaluated experimentally evaluated method proposed.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
In this work, many extension are possible. First of all, we consider as a candidate cluster the whole set of new assertion, but ideally. The best thing to do should be to cluster D element in the candidate cluster and evaluate each cluster of the candidate cluster. Then this cluster assume that the group that we obtain are disjoint and an interesting extension seems. This cannot be. Also, is always guaranteed is to investigate the application of a fuzzy clustering. And also the optimization of the measure. To apply the supervised learning step before performing the conceptual clustering step and really we have already some results. For this we can use the hierarchy that we have from the clustering algorithm for improving the resource retrieval task. Because currently it is performed by a linear search. By the use of the tree, it is possible to decrease the time from linear to logarithmic. In the best case, and that's it.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Which is. I need to be a pain.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
First of all, again very interesting work. Thanks again. So I have two questions. Maybe maybe I missed it, but what I didn't get is have you evaluated how good your algorithm is actually able to pick up on drift and or novelty and differentiate between the two and? The second part, that kind of comes in it. How does it react that if you have noise in the data arriving overtime, would it detect it as new novel concepts? Or will it actually be able to? You're dismissed, it is not. OK, the reply should be one for the two questions. First of all, no, I don't. I don't have an evaluation with respect to the introduction of a new concept of nowhere. Concept is simply because I don't have a data set for doing this. So I tried to have this but I didn't find something for doing this kind of evaluation evaluation. Right now that I'm really able to perform. Is simply an evaluation of the quality of the cluster that we obtain an let's it. For this reason, I don't think that noise is a problem because the measure is quite good and it is not so sensible to the noise, but I cannot give you the number. Data. For this topic, detection validation is. American Project GPS tracking. Yeah, there are other context in which, for example, in data mining area there are. They are working also on this topic and that is obviously common to different area and it was interesting in our opinion since the ontology as a. The same phenomenon that is the evolution over the time and the managing a management or their ontology by human. Particularly fun ontologies is quite large, is quite impossible because after a certain amount in a human is not able to manage it. So the idea again is to do this automatically or or at least semi automatically because at the end, at least in my opinion human need to check. But the effort to get a human need for checking is obviously less than the effort that need for. Finding a new concept or concept that is evolving in a huge ontology. Language. More exactly, for public reading, load attention. One more. I asked my too much. Do you want me to generate another question? I have to be ready. I mean, this works suddenly. I mean it's I would say growth in the context of many other topics of data mining nowadays, specially this time, but very important. We would get close to this dynamic social networks, and the idea comes from that area. OK thanks.
