My name is William Wenzel and I'm here to get presentation about the paper we published here, which is called a cross platform benchmark framework for mobile semantic web reasoning. Semantic web technology used extensively in healthcare domain for a couple of reasons. Firstly, is an improved timeliness of alerts, right? I can use these kinds of systems to collect a range of health data locally. So, given that a local DSS can can apply all sorts of reasoning in order to infer local alerts, for instance in case of clinical problematic clinical situations like a dangerous trend in your blood pressure heart rate without requiring connectivity, right? That's specially important given. Secondly, there's a huge heterogeneity of mobile platforms, Android, iOS, BlackBerry, and and so on and so forth. First one is a generic standards based semantic web layer which supplies a uniform interface rule and data interface supporting SPARQL inferencing, rotation or spin and RDF. Second component, of course, there's a benchmark engine itself which allows you to actually perform these kinds of benchmarks, and here we also focus on allowing developers to reuse their own reasoning. And this, for instance, may also include having to support new rule and data formats, so they should also be easily pluggable. Can be directly benchmark in order to benchmark native reasoning engines like written for Android. Right, so this is the third major extension point of the framework, right? Well, in our experience and CD SS, we identified 2 interesting reasoning process flows. In this case, you continuously store collected facts so you and your blood pressure heart rate during the day symptoms you might be having then afterwards, or in the context of a clinical decision support system at least, and then after a certain time span X is elapsed, you apply reasoning each time right? Let's start up time. You load the store with some baseline data. This includes, for instance, the patient's profile. Once you apply reasoning right, which of course makes the system more responsive. So we had to extend that with this case and naive reasoning algorithm in order to support reasoning. Here was a mobile benchmark framework for these kinds of semantic web reasoning engines. Two important properties are extensibility and cross platform, nature, future work, what were especially interested in is to try to apply optimization techniques for rulesets automatically in the benchmark framework.