[0.0s - 29.0s]
My name is William Wenzel and I'm here to get presentation about the paper we published here, which is called a cross platform benchmark framework for mobile semantic web reasoning. Engine's just time like this. So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
First, a short introduction. Semantic web technology used extensively in healthcare domain for a couple of reasons. Two major ones is as it facilitates all yeah. Firstly, because it facilitates data integration using ontologies such as Snow, Med and of course the 300 plus ontologies from my portal. The second reason is because it allows for expressive and rule based reasoning using standard such as swirls, been ruler mill and so on in the medical domain. So called clinical Decision support systems applying or can apply this kind of expressive rule based reasoning in order to infer new clinical information. New clinical data. And general advantage of these kinds of support systems as opposed to, for instance, in coding all the logic using instead of conditionals is that it explicitly separates application logic from domain knowledge, right? You can very easily plug in new rules without having to recompile the system or redeployed a system. Now thanks.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Improvements in mobile hardware. These CDs can currently be deployed locally on a mobile device itself, especially in in the clinical domain or in health domain. This has a number of clear advantages. Firstly, is an improved timeliness of alerts, right? So using systems such as Apple Health Kit, for instance, which came out recently, probably still has a couple of bugs but still Google Fit, which is being planned. I can use these kinds of systems to collect a range of health data locally. Blood pressure, heart rate. Physical properties such as height and weight, obviously. Symptoms you might be having, and so on. So, given that a local DSS can can apply all sorts of reasoning in order to infer local alerts, for instance in case of clinical problematic clinical situations like a dangerous trend in your blood pressure heart rate without requiring connectivity, right? If you deploy the reasoning locally, you don't need a connection in order to detect dangerous clinical situations. Secondly, I also can avoid privacy issues by deploying your DSS locally. You can avoid having to send privacy privacy sensitive data over the network. That's specially important given. For instance, you might be having certain symptoms you might not want to share with other people. Of course. This requires also mobile deployment of the semantic Web reasoning underlying these clinical decision support systems, which brings us to our. Challenges.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Regardless of these kinds of improvements in mobile hardware, relatively speaking are still limited. Mobile computing resources are still limited compared to desktop systems, especially server systems. So one important goal here is to allow developers to benchmark their own current clinical decision support systems right using their own existing real world data and rules set of any scale or complexity, using their own reasoning processes so we can allow these developers to investigate the feasibility of deploying these kinds of. These kinds of systems locally on a mobile device that about extent that's feasable. Secondly, there's a huge heterogeneity of mobile platforms, Android, iOS, BlackBerry, and and so on and so forth.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So we also want to allow developers to deploy these kinds of benchmarks on a range of platforms, right? Any platform that their users might be employing. That brings us to the goal of this paper, which is a cross platform benchmark framework which has two main components. First one is a generic standards based semantic web layer which supplies a uniform interface rule and data interface supporting SPARQL inferencing, rotation or spin and RDF. The reason behind this is a lot of mobile reasoning systems either support different rules standards or data standards, or even have their own custom style formats which are not standards at all. So my. Supplying this kind of uniform interface to these reasoning engines, we allow developers to more easily reuse their existing real world data set and ruleset to benchmark all sorts of reasoning engine. Second component, of course, there's a benchmark engine itself which allows you to actually perform these kinds of benchmarks, and here we also focus on allowing developers to reuse their own reasoning. Existing reasoning process flows in these benchmarks. Now elaborate on a little in a little while. What I actually mean by my reasoning process flows. Now this platform also has two important properties. Firstly, it should be extensible. Clearly as new mobile reasoning engines come out because currently there aren't that many available actually freely available. At least they can be easily plugged into the framework. And this, for instance, may also include having to support new rule and data formats, so they should also be easily pluggable. Secondly, as I mentioned on the previous slide challenge is to allow for cross platform benchmarks. For this purpose we actually implemented this framework using the Phonegap development tool. In general, this tool actually allows you to to deploy JavaScript system as a native application on a mobile platform. That way we can deploy a framework across easily across a number of native platforms without having to rewrite the code we just coded once in JavaScript. Now this has an added advantage. We can actually also benchmark JavaScript rule systems in these on these native platforms in addition to simply Native Rule system systems.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So this is a. Overview of the architecture. So imagine that you're a developer. You want you're interested in deploying your reasoning processes locally. So what do you do in order to benchmark a certain system? So say that your input groups that in data set is in spin and in RDF, but you're benchmarking reasoning engine that has its own custom format or supports a different standard. So what happens? Well firstly. You pass this this rule and data set onto an external conversion web service which contains a number of components for converting the rules and data to the custom format supported by the reasoning engine that you're interested in benchmarking. This could be any exotic form. This is actually the first major extension point of the framework. Here we can plug in easily new rule data converters in order to support different formats. After conversion, you pass on the output of this conversion. To the actual benchmark engine where all the magic happens now. Mentioned developers can apply their own process flows in order to perform reasoning process flows in order to perform the benchmarks. This is actually a second extension point. Of the system, you can actually plug in a new reasoning process flow as well to better reflect your own real world reasoning system. You're not dependent on the reasoning process. Flow is that we thought up. And essentially what the process flow does. It invokes methods of. Engine interface in a certain order, right? So, for instance, load rules execute rules, so it invokes these kinds of engine operations. So each engine has a uniform interface that it needs to implement. So we need to implement this uniform interface in this implementation. Then this plugin. Would convert these uniform interface methods to the underlying reasoning engine implementation. Right, so as I mentioned, we're using the Phonegap development tool. This entire system is actually written in JavaScript, so these JavaScript engine's. Can be directly supported. Can be directly benchmark in order to benchmark native reasoning engines like written for Android. Written for iOS. This implementation of the uniform interface right? These plugins need to communicate with this native code over the phone average. Right, so this is the third major extension point of the framework, right? You can easily plug in a new reasoning engine by simply writing a plugin that implements this uniform interface that. Translates to use a method. Invocations on this uniform interface to the underlying reasoning engine. OK, so I've been talking about online.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The reasoning process flow. So what do I mean by that actually? Well, in our experience and CD SS, we identified 2 interesting reasoning process flows. Firstly, it's frequent reasoning. In this case, you continuously store collected facts so you and your blood pressure heart rate during the day symptoms you might be having then afterwards, or in the context of a clinical decision support system at least, and then after a certain time span X is elapsed, you apply reasoning each time right? And this advantage of course is not very responsive. We need to reload the engine into memory all the time, which has a performance penalty and you have incremental reasoning so. Let's start up time. You load the store with some baseline data. This includes, for instance, the patient's profile. Again, in the clinical setting, some historical data, for instance, clinical measurements. Then after each new fact is added like a new blood pressure or heart rate and also on startup time. Once you apply reasoning right, which of course makes the system more responsive. Requires keeping the engine consistent continuously in memory, right? So that has this kind of consistent memory load. That frequent reasoning doesn't have sort of. Both have their advantages, disadvantages. Developers can easily plug in new process flows to better reflect their current real world system. For instance, a hybrid kind of process flow. So the system that we support.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
The only freely available mobile reasoning engine that we found. Was Andrew Gina which is a port of Apache Gina to Android. It's actually an older version of Gina that was supported. So that was the only one that we found. If someone in the audience knows other ones, please let me know. It will be interesting. And so, as I mentioned, using Phonegap had an added advantage of being able to also easily benchmark JavaScript systems on more. So we looked at RDF query, RDF store JS and NEWELLS RDF storage as well. Simply in RDF store. So we had to extend that with this case and naive reasoning algorithm in order to support reasoning. Newells was a very, very extensive and very clever reasoning system, but it didn't support semantic web data. So we made an effort. Stand newells, or at least two. Write data and rule converters in order to support new rules in our framework. So converts been rules and already have data into the format supported my noodles. Now it should be noted. This Andrew Gino Kate support to Android. Not really clear to what extent that it was really optimized for mobile systems. For instance, your regarding memory usage, battery usage. These ones were actually specifically developed for a desk, some even. For instance tools. There's documentation mostly mentions a server side deployment, so for each of these systems it wasn't really clear how they would perform on a mobile platform, right? So which of course makes our cross platform mobile benchmark framework pretty useful, and checking out the performance of these engines for different kinds of datasets? Different rulesets for different kind of reasoning process flows.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So that's about it for the majority will be presented. Here was a mobile benchmark framework for these kinds of semantic web reasoning engines. Two important properties are extensibility and cross platform, nature, future work, what were especially interested in is to try to apply optimization techniques for rulesets automatically in the benchmark framework. For instance, based on based on working in retail algorithms or sparkle query optimization, for instance, we found and this was really in kind of an ad hoc test that simply changed patterns in one of these input rules. The order of these these triple patterns already had a large impact on performance, which is to be expected, of course. Now we didn't actually, so this is the last slide we did actually.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Already do some extensive benchmarks using this benchmark framework, and these are actually published separately in another paper, so if you want more details on that specific benchmark, I can for sure give you the link to that paper a couple of couple of extra slides then summarize the results of that benchmark using those systems, so explaining that extensively was a bit outside of the scope of this presentation, so the software for the benchmark framework can be found at this URL here, so this is an_in case you were wondering. So this is my contact information. So for your attention and I will be accepting questions.
