What is the impact of research and how do things turn into products and what is the effect of it? Does anyone know John Kay? Let's hope and she writes to Thomas Edison. They're being used in many ways. Patterns play an important role in their success, but. No one did because they didn't see that a bookstore could be was a unity which should be close to the books. General purpose Technologies brings out new institutions. Always ICD, like many other things, is first used to automate the old idiom. To my surprise actually. Yeah, I if I would like to discuss with you today, a better short on this, but this is my short. And of course. Of course yeah, he died in France as we will see in a moment. But the locals refused to pay and they even burned down his house because they felt threatened about his patent. And I'm pretty sure that problems of data nature anyway, but so they they couldn't master the complexity of design. They can now have so complex mechanical computation you could never reproduce that with hand force, so to say. The non symmetry Hong Kong and the non square everywhere that is typical for ICT handles much larger freedom and that's why it's always been the case historically that is then driven to the extreme so to say. Now, what is the impact of ICT now within seconds? Now, what is the impact the impact of patient history that the off our people who treat you in the weekend are much better informed to such a degree that the quality of care must have gone up in the Netherlands? And therapy is much better informed when they have inserted the code. They in the Netherlands I read the press release that at the first paperless session of a District Attorney in court. Can you imagine this was the first ever and it took? OK, so the auction in the Netherlands is practically gold. Launching campaign and so as a consequence, vegetables are no longer removed. The care that additional system but not the lawyer system judicial system will turn into a system there 20 years behind the care system. And as a consequence of which the number of requests from archives has doubled. Archive but you get it. The total medicine is not a pill, but it comes with this this service. Is the impact on teaching now this is interesting. I hadn't realized it has proceeded up to this point. But I was typing the invention of steam engine from the web. He laments that I've been branded with Foley and Madness in attempting and then he goes on to complain about his. He was called names for inventing something, however much I may be strained in pecuniary circumstances is poor. And then came the first locomotive by this guy crazy chick. Baby sick well and then it patterns passenger train locomotive an finally Steffensen won the first prize in competition and from then on it bloomed. The hidden was now in nations. It led to stronger nations business corporations as such, expansion over the world until the end of the world.