[0.0s - 29.0s]
I I have only a humble contribution today, I've not given up science at all. But there is no science in my presentation is only history. Because I wanted to take a literally the mission of Alan today. That is how. What is the impact of research and how do things turn into products and what is the effect of it? So I started in history and it will take a long time before we get out of history. But maybe you learn some lessons underway, not for your research in technology, because there is no technology in my talk at all. But it is on my process is of how things get.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Innovative so to say. So let's start with John K. He's a pretty old fashioned guy. Does anyone know John Kay? No, he started the machine Rep.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Pollution. So he he had a patent. On the fly shuttle, the fly shuttle. Oh yeah, yeah yeah yeah this hotel and also said with the. I'm not into gadgets. OK, thank you. So he he had a patent and patent on the fly shuttle and the fly shuttle made really weaving into a machine rather than human extension. So now from now on you could. You could weave much more things. And. This was felt as a real set. Both by him as well as by the locals becausw, he said that. He sat in Parliament that if they wouldn't do something about pirating his patent in three days, he would leave the country well. And what is the result? If you threaten Parliament that in the end he left? Of course yeah, he died in France as we will see in a moment. But the locals refused to pay and they even burned down his house because they felt threatened about his patent. All sorts of movement in and out. Are you ready? Well, anyway, so he he he learned he had too many lawsuits and he he died in France as a power. So he had a great invention. He triggered the machine revolution. He had a real impact in.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
World actually. So the next step is James Watt and James Watt invented. He was granted a patent on pumps in minds by a steam engine. And here comes a very crucial step. He patented condenser and as a consequence of which he owned the 60% market share in perms in minds. Now this was a very so sort of Google type of model Monopoly or Microsoft in a different area. Don't take any notes. Don't take any offense. But here comes the crucial step forward. By 1800, when he owned such a enormous market share, he was now thinking of something else, and then the pump separates from the engine and all of a sudden there's an abstracting available. The engine which could produce mechanical force without being without it.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And body involved in it over or a horse or mule. So all of a sudden there separates intentional energy from physical energy, which was until that time was unity. No one could think of the fact that you could produce labor without without a biological system involved in it. So this was the the great step forward, and it took quite a while before this abstraction was really implemented. Although it was for.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Everybody there to see. And. OK, we will come back to that later that mechanism later.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, the next step this. This guy. So he.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
They were instrumental in trains, as we'll see in a moment. He laments that I've been branded with Foley and Madness in attempting and then he goes on to complain about his. He was called names for inventing something, however much I may be strained in pecuniary circumstances is poor. The great honor of being useful, subject to society, is much more reward than being rich. Well, OK, so that's there's. This is. I took it in as a support for all of you working on a PhD that you. That that that anyone? That you should feel relieved that you helped society and the riches, of course. And now here. Actually, the first automotive vehicle was very.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
It was designed. Do you know where the Hangzhou? IM Pei in Beijing at the Court of Beijing by a far a Belgian father I suppose from his name, so to say it was never built as far as we know, but it was designed to be a steam engine on top of a with a mechanism to drive. It could have been working so to say. And then came the first locomotive by this guy crazy chick. Baby sick well and then it patterns passenger train locomotive an finally Steffensen won the first prize in competition and from then on it bloomed. But here there are too many inventions so many inventions that patterns are less important than competition so the patterns don't really matter at all. Is this just the steps are so incremental that patterns are just evaded? And basically that was. That is why the lamenting of the letter I showed you becausw he owned the pattern on the 1st locomotive, he he was left out of, so the profit streams data set. And the Hill Rd has a deep impact. It leads to a hidden for the nation rather than by local communities. No longer had a hidden. The hidden was now in nations. It led to stronger nations business corporations as such, expansion over the world until the end of the world. Railways and and it ended strong class separation. People who never would never talk to each other would now be together in a train or at least maybe not in the same wagon and not that that England has given up on class separation. But nevertheless it ended strong separation. OK, and the final one I would like to discuss with you.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Is this guy and he he came with the electricity? Now the question is what is electricity?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Electricity decouples fuel. You still need fuel because the fuel goes into the electricity powerhouse, but it decouples fuel from the application. Until that point, the application any application had his own fuel. So you have to bring the wood to the application rather than to the central. So that gives all sorts of decouples energy from Locust, so no longer necessary. You bring the. The wood here you bring the wood somewhere there so to say. And it delivers, in other words, and end 2 on one, two and surface. So it centralizes it gives power to the people who control the power, of course, because they want to end, mechanism always brings power. So electricity the described form a sort of ICT view, I would say. This is a letter from a miss. Let's hope and she writes to Thomas Edison. That as a housewife how very shy and she is by him and his invention that now her life is much more agreeable and comfortable than before. The Times of electricity. So you see all sorts of emotions. I'm sure you have received letters by satisfied customers, right? Writing to you hung that they applaud all the goods Microsoft has brought to the world and Housewives and so on. And here is the note by. And he is a node by Mr Edison. Thank you very much, Edison. So that's what he tells his secretary to answer.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
OK, So what have you seen? These are called general purpose technologies. And what what are their characteristics? They're being used in many ways. If they are not used in many ways than they are important but not critical to society to transform society. They are improving incrementally if you so if you are a PhD student, don't invent the final solution right away. No one will side Yubi cause 2 after the final solution. Nothing is to add. So leave room for others to improve on them. And that's well, you could also call it differently, and Apple has understood that strategy very well. Go for a platform rather than for the final solution in everything. IBM wanted to control the world completely, and so that's why they are now less important, so to say, well, not totally unimportant, but the so improve. Leave others room to improve incrementally and being absorbed first by existing practices. That's the critical point. But if of course you can add something to the world, but it is even better to replace an existing technology that you don't have to argue the need for it set aside. OK, now let's violence that general purposes technologies are always in history, oversold promises. If you read about what they they they were, they were sailed there, completely oversold, but in the in the end that deliver something that usually something else is they've they've been promising, and the same holds for ICT as well. Or computers as well, right? So it is always on the lookout. What is something else could be, and I think that well. On John gave a very good overview of the something else, so to say. Patterns play an important role in their success, but. When there are too many small steps or two diverse, then all of a sudden, like in the railway system, was one basically by competition or by first prices, and so on. Patterns didn't play a role at all that there was simply immaterial. And finally, that yes, it's OK to have replacing existing practices first, but they as you saw from the letters and from the House burnings, they strike emotion. You are on someone stones, so there's always a fine balance between being on someone toes too many people who have own who have to give up their practices and their ownership, and that's why the replacement is always a very sensitive. Component, so you have to sort of find balance in between to get it accepted. And this is the critical point where why you should. If you are on top of the world, you should think and think what it actually does. General purpose technologies break and Unite change of technology, brain break and Unite change in society and in business. And it took 30 years to see that a pump could also be divided. The source from the pumping. It took 100 years to to recognize that a train could actually run, so to say it could, and that it would have an impact in businesses and so on. So it takes awfully menkind awfully long to get rid of the of the existing chain and think of something new. You can Amazon, for instance, in our time was invented at the time that the technology was already there for 10 years. Everybody could have generated Amazon. Everybody. All of you. Well, some of you are too young, but nevertheless everybody could have at the time of Amazon, everybody could have generated. No one did because they didn't see that a bookstore could be was a unity which should be close to the books. But it is not at all the case. General purpose Technologies brings out new institutions. Of course, new persons and new societies. OK, so this is the history of innovation in general.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Now let's be slightly more specific on the ICT. Always ICD, like many other things, is first used to automate the old idiom. That is the old way of using you have. If you saw the first website of say, CNN, it very much looks like television channel and the first website of the New York Times very much looked like a newspaper, so to say and still. I'm pretty sure you are pretty sure that you have to follow that pattern because people anticipate that on the other hand, it will only fire off when you have something new to say. It decouples something. Now the question is what does ICT decouples? And now I restrict myself to strictly ICT. I will treat the decoupling of multimedia later because I think they are very much different. To my surprise actually. And the best thing I can shoot is that the ICT decouples formal reasoning. From intuitive reasoning. You know, you remember the unity of the pump from the from the machine that the invention of Mumbai biological labor. Now, what has ICT discovered? Yeah, I if I would like to discuss with you today, a better short on this, but this is my short. That formal reasoning is separated from intuitive reasoning. And here are a few predictions that. To warm you up. Then to speak, stand up and speak against me. I then we can learn something. That's so this is the time that we're intuitive reasoning is more. Intuition and emotion is more appreciated. Because now we have slaves for the formal reasoning. So the the the rise and fall of ICT in the public eye will be that everything is formalized and it will take 20 more years. And then it's completely moved to the back of things and so that leaves enormous room about everything because emotion is now solely attached to humans. And intuitive reasoning, an instant reasoning and all of that and formal reasoning is something you have a slave for, so to say now. So that's what I believe is the. Is what I see T decouples or breaks if you wish. And of course. ICT decouples information from physical thing is now immaterial. It is from being there and from synchrony. So you don't have to be there in the time and a place and you don't have to. It is. It's no longer tangible. Information is just completely coupled. While this I'm sure you've realized by now, but not, but it's very hard to imagine what the real impact of this. How how different life will be in 10 years from now from from this fact so to say. So it brings. Information it redefines most of all information in business. That is the biggest impact of ICT. ICT works to formalize business processes to make them numerical numbers. And you get 12 N supervision. That's why you have. We have grown very large companies because they are now controllable without ICT. Worldwide operated companies would not been controllable. And they have they bacon redefine productivity that steadily goes up through the use of ICT has been proven now and it gives a different type of social control. And I believe that ICT is at the height of his power and from that and. Will move backwards as a sort of.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
As energy did before us. OK. So now relax Part 2 R. I've interviewed a few people. And ask them how and in what way has ICT changed your profession? And at first that they answer while everything has gone cheaper, faster, slower. More expensive it. So I said no, I'm not interested in that type of answers. That is all about automation. I'm interested in how has the content of your profession changed. So what is the process is? Is is fine, but internal to you? You don't have to do that. You did it. So apparently there is some advantage or disadvantage. I don't know, but I'm only interested in well, how does it change the world to other people?

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, so first I interviewed architect. And we came up with the following conclusion. That basically. By mass innovation in the supply chain of things to build, you can build complex structures so complex you could never make it if you are. You have do not have ICT. Like this building every of these. The beams is different. An old glasses are different. You could never make it.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
This is 100 years ago at the height. Over Eiffel this is Kew Garden, so very similar.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
But very parallel, so they have for the first time introduced reproduction. That's why it is. And that's why.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Spell aligns and not diverging lines, so this is a typical product at the end of the 19th century, and this is a typical product at the end of the 20th century.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And this is so if you are lending from a spaceship from another planet you've never been here before. If you see this building, you see they've they've discovered.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Production lines if you see this you you see they have invented ICT. An integrated supply.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Change so to say. This is another building you could never. Master complexity of design. If you have no computer becausw simply you wouldn't know if all of a sudden through a room there would be a beam. If you make a design like this. And I'm pretty sure that problems of data nature anyway, but so they they couldn't master the complexity of design. They couldn't break it up, and it asks if they didn't have any ICT.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And also from Beijing. This is a pure coincidence from a Dutch architect. Of course they make. They can now have so complex mechanical computation you could never reproduce that with hand force, so to say. So all of these examples could never have been built. This isn't even look at anything vertical. Nothing is vertical. Yeah, look at anything. Yeah. So that's in my not in this. This is the and. This is and.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Other way which will ICT bring the you can share whatever the the building is ahead of time so precisely that you can sell it on the basis of a very detailed insight and you can plan it in the embedded in the environment. You can make a few points from every seat to see if the field is observable and so on. So did this is the what you see is what you get anything. OK, here is the.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
The non symmetry Hong Kong and the non square everywhere that is typical for ICT handles much larger freedom and that's why it's always been the case historically that is then driven to the extreme so to say. So you will see extremely non parallel and Norm Square buildings. OK, this is the what you see is what you get design by embedding it.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Let's move to.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Let's move back. This is about the. The origin of systems and this is about the personal impact I will now treat 3 cases. Starting with the General practitioner.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
The General practitioner, this is the voter General practitioner does every 10 minutes. There will be. She said that she will see the symptoms. She will take a quick glance at the patient history. She makes a diagnosis either sends it off to hospital or she starts treatment. Therapy, sorry, then she decides on treatment and finally does administration that's this is the typical sequence every 10 minutes and then the next patient. Now, what is the impact of ICT now within seconds? She decides on the symptoms. She tells me. And so you could say this is the hardcore of GP and no matter how much ICT you will insert into the office of a GP, there will never be optimization of symptoms. Now, what is the impact the impact of patient history that the off our people who treat you in the weekend are much better informed to such a degree that the quality of care must have gone up in the Netherlands? That's Becausw now off hours GP's are much better treated. In diagnosis they use protocols, has nothing to do with the computer, but they're already mechanic ized 50% of all diagnosis without having a computer. But nevertheless in the era of a computer they sort of generalized protocols and the protocols tells you what to do if the diagnosis has been set. Another example is that dermatology, as it is on the surface they make a picture. Now they send it to a dermatological hospital. They get an answer within 24 hours, saves a lot of costs to everyone to the GP, to the dermatologist and to the patient so everybody happy, so to say. The and then there is a process to send it to the hospital that's now almost completely automated. Becausw you have inserted this into the patient history. You make a dump of the patient. History is now automatized, so no longer an issue. And therapy is much better informed when they have inserted the code. For instance, an automatic alarm of cocktails of medicines is now common practice, at least in the Netherlands. And treatment. Is also better controlled. So for instance, the Abeita statement is now coming returning from the hospital no longer in the hospital. In the GP you get the diabeetus treatment becausw simply they have computer generated clocks. When you have to be in.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And administration the patient record and the audit for two purposes. For the patient record which goes in here of our better. Inform your colleagues and audit now. Did the audit is a very crucial step. Everybody agreed 20 year this took 20 years to. Of optimization in GP to get here. Everybody agreed right from the start that all that would be better. But if you are a GP and you've never diagnosed, say a broken knee. Or have a flu of a special kind? Then how come no? So then you are taught by your colleagues while you have so few broken knees that maybe you should go and refresh your memory on broken knees. Now maybe broken. He's not the right example. That's a hurt ankle or I don't know. But then they always avoided avoided this because they are personal. There are used to operate themselves. They are trained to operate an incomplete independence like. Basically. Like professors, they are trained to do to teach in complete independence, not used to feedback from their colleagues. But the fact that they had that they were agreeing that this was useful to inform their colleagues that could not avoid this, and this opened the door to building effectively a system. I will return to that in a moment. OK, please absorb this and compare it to the judicial system completely different. Judicial people, lawyers, judges and GPS were almost identical PO's.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Mission in society.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Years ago, 20 years ago. Judicial system. They were very proud that after 123 failures. They in the Netherlands I read the press release that at the first paperless session of a District Attorney in court. Whoa, what an achievement. So both the judge and the two and the lawyer came with their own laptop. Can you imagine this was the first ever and it took? This is the highest court of the system. They decided to do this and 10 years later it was fact for the first time. So this is all chaos, but at the professional sites completely different. Include were already a clear, very famous system already in 1985. They had support to search a search engine. The first I would say. Professional use of search engines and profit very profitable search engines to search to the euros prudence records as a consequence of which. They can't live without, they simply they they go. They dig in for cases of similar nature and they defend themselves, not without having gone through the use. Prudence of clever. And now they also have speech recognition, but for lawyers, so to say, and then speech recognition may not have been taken off in many professions, but in lawyers they have specialized speech recognizers for loyal speech set to set. OK, So what is?

[870.0s - 899.0s]
What is the difference? They became less private.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
They scheme is tcisd. They have less drama. They do coding. They do order. In fact they have become assistant. And GP's now are part of the system and they resent it. But they have to, and in fact the system has one becausw. Now in the Netherlands at least, the large insurance companies who the handling of the GPS and the GPS are being sent to training to teach them how to use less expensive medicine rather than what I own. Or go to courses of their own liking. In fact, in 20 years GP has become a system. And a very effective system in analysis you have more GPS than anywhere else, but I'm pretty sure this will happen in many places in the world, because in the end sits in the pocket of everyone. Lawyers have became more private, more drama, more they have been supported individually, so now you see them on television as as much as they have become more macho and more less martial, so to say you will never see a GP. 20 years ago they had the same status in society. OK, now this has something to do with groceries you wouldn't mind, I've.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And interviewed the guy who on the market sells our groceries. Very nice guy. He has a website. Over counter Albert Count Dot NL. 15,000 visits, he asked me what to do. I said keep on going. OK, so the auction in the Netherlands is practically gold. Who of you didn't know that? There is no option anymore in an alliance. Is the logistics becausw? Why is auction gone? Because you know, our auction worked. All people would bring the vegetables to the market. There would be auction. The one that didn't sell will be thrown away. Once that that was sold was sold in the supermarket. But now. The system. As he implemented new change, so the greenery. Makes direct contact with the farmers. Who sell their products before they have a they have even even seen the sunset today. And they ought to deliver precisely on time, because then the supermarket has launched a campaign for cheap. Cauliflower. Sears, sorry, three months ahead of time so they don't. They have not yet seen the cauliflower with overhead either. Launching campaign and so as a consequence, vegetables are no longer removed. In other words, I asked for a don't tell me about the system and don't tell me about the optimization. Tell me about the quality of the vegetables to my big surprise, the quality of the vegetables in freshness goes down, not up because they are now stored for one or two or three days. Because they're no longer fresh. 'cause it's now a system. It has become a system so to say.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
OK, so the system side as one. OK, so. We've seen this before. The care that additional system but not the lawyer system judicial system will turn into a system there 20 years behind the care system. I don't know why exactly, but judges will in the end face audit. They don't like it, they don't like it at all. I know judges, but I will. Becaused they will get to the point after. After the Eid. O'Shea of Cooks has come. They will be asked to exchange it and to form an opinion about whether this is the right judgement, but they are 20 years behind there maybe 10 years behind of care. But the care system is is by far the 1st. December, does that person consider the current situation in this one?

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
As a stable one, or is it still in position to personalize foods and those kinds of I I talk about the chicken yesterday where you have your own language. And get your X. It will come. So I agree with you. It well, actually. I think to be extreme in that. That personalized vegetables will come like you. Order personalized Volkswagen. There are 100,000 of them. And so I think that the chain is now completely closed because of false influences like poison and and so on. And so in the end it will be possible to order your cauliflower on February 19. This size in that shape. No, that's a little bit extreme, but I'm sure it will come.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
What is this development going to further decrease the freshness of vegetable Mr Mr. Chairman, I cannot accept interrupts becausw you from you. I'm almost there. The. The impact on the creation that this is the the more personal impact of ICT. Built a cloud that's the National Archive. Very beautiful building completely digital by now in the Netherlands you didn't know but we are the front runners. Maybe in the world. Since year and a half completely digital, we store about 15,000 hours of broadcasted material. And as a consequence of which the number of requests from archives has doubled. So you're seeing all the stuff on television. It must be. And you see programs which drive home, old stuff or very old stuff there. Also digitizing the very old. Archive but you get it. This has an impact on life, right? You now you re iterate and reiterate. Basically it's the same as Facebook. The display, so yeah, that's what I thought when I saw you, but it's not, but it is. Well, it's interesting because these are panels with a famous scene on television, but there are molded there not. I thought they were going to be LCD screens. Yes, there's a very nice building actually. Sort of. Paint is preferred for them. This is acquainted on the loss and the causes and melted in another.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Ellen, if it's so, getting out of hand, I allow your question too. OK. This is this is a famous pill. And you know why? Because it's not a pill. The total medicine is not a pill, but it comes with this this service. And you get if you get this bill, you get the availability of life coaches support groups. All day and all night response and evening checking calls you know where the pill is for. To quit smoking. So the most important part, I believe is this and this could be the placebo. It's simply, but I I'm sure it works I have now I've no idea, but anyway, so this is service and why? Because the surface is much more important than the substance. And this.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Is the impact on teaching now this is interesting. I hadn't realized it has proceeded up to this point. But I was typing the invention of steam engine from the web. And this was one of the responses I got. You can buy instantly. A student paper if you want to write. This. Of 1000 words, which is a page. And it costs you only. $38 I was completely surprised by the economic power of this market. But if you want to write, if you have an assignment for a term paper of one page, you can buy it for $38. Can you believe this? Our students nowadays are on the winning end, of course, but sure shortly after that I. At one time, fire the student Becausw she had copied her her thesis completely from the web. Now, not completely intelligently from the web. And fire suspended. I should say for one year. But I'm sure that this is you cannot stop this. It's almost impossible to prevent this, so it should be integrated in the system. Students should be encouraged to get it from the web, not for money, of course, but then that has a severe impact on the teaching system. And for the.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Personal from creativity. We go from creation to recreation. And recreation are all of a sudden means two things. Namely you re create and you re create. And changing of habits from training to tutoring. You will get a personal coach, maybe located in India. And from training from reproducibility to originality, there is no escape. Becausw reproducibility is that easy. As you saw in the moment ago. So this is the impact of ICT. Now we move.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
To the two slides of multimedia. I city is coded.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Direct quantitative reproduced in other words. It delivers control and systems. If you don't like it, it's I believe it is the case. Multimedia's interpretive, indirect, uncertain. It delivers intuition. And the intuition is precisely what is needed to balance the control. So after the age of control, we now get the age of intuition. Multimedia is search engine's with popularizes knowledge defines A wish world through animation. Intuitive, it finally brings normal interaction is nothing spectacular about it and that's why into anything interaction is so hot because it burns very fast. One year after.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Say Apple has introduced a new type of. In interaction, everybody is used to. It is nothing. Spectacular is only it only. Breaks down, say, the failures of the previous type of interaction. Feedback learns from the case and from the experience it tell us the instance. Anna.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Emphasize and it brings back and certainty which was gone out of life because of ICT and that's why I think that multimedia is badly needed in an ICT dominated world. It decouples the census from the world and it sends from the body and being there and it then brings personal things like it reunites, no businesses. It breaks and reunites work? Intuition, social embedding, not social control. Social embedding. This is the power of innovation. Thank you very much.
