Interests and we also have the same problems which we have to face in our projects and not only us in other projects as we saw in the I think you mentioned the random conference. Applications in social media. The structure of the stretch of text which one author has created and submitted to the server or also this the structure of the stretches of texts created by the system which are displayed using the format of the posts you know. The project background for what I will discuss in the next slides is an ongoing project in the German chapter of the Clarin initiative. This so called Creation project is the name check corpus declaring in the project is led by Angelica store at only Manheim and myself and we have colleagues involved in the project from two big clarine centers in Germany who are providing corpus infrastructures. For language corpora at the Berlin Brandenburg Academy of Sciences, mainly hardly an axle, he wrote another colleagues from these institutions are involved in the project too, because the goal of the project is to remodel an existing chat corpus for German using standards in the field of digital humanities and then integrate this corpus into the clarity infrastructures and make it available in the clarity infrastructures. Back then, this corpus has been annotated in a very simple homegrown XML format which we call chat XML, which describes the basic structure of chat log files and postings. One is a German WhatsApp corpus which has been collected 2014 and 15 at 7 German universities directed by initiated and directed by Bad seem high diversity of light sick. Where we have several work packages in this project, amongst others it is on the one hand to specify an XML schema for the representation of structural information on the macro and microstructure level of CMC, and to convert the corpus into this target format and another work packages that we want to add part of speech information on the microstructure level which is not available in the document copies so far, and these are the two work page packages about which I will talk in the following. We also have a broad field of research in different disciplines in the humanities and social Sciences, not only in the past three years, but since the early 90s we have an increasing number of publication of studies each year, but nevertheless we have almost no representation of CMC genres of CMC. This is really one big reason for why people often work with CMC data in their research projects, but they don't provide corpora that can be reused by other people, and another reason is the lack of standards. The lack of standards for describing, annotating and processing CMC phenomenon, which leads to that the fact that to date each corpus project, as I already mentioned. Two would be to create our own unique XML Schema attack set. So far the the disadvantage of the problem with going that way is that compliance with an existing standard restricts the freedom to design everything in a way that perfectly fits the peculiarities of CMC. If you comply with the standards, the chance that you have sustainability of your resource and annotation is higher than if you when you create an idiosyncratic schema. When you try to comply with the standard then. The chance that the community which is building the standard and. Working on this standard takes notice of the need to extend the standard for the new field of research and for the new subjects in C is much higher than if you when you're creating an idiosyncratic own schema, because nobody understands it, you have to always explain it. So for this purpose we decided to try to do it within the annotation framework for texting code coding provided by the text encoding initiative that EIT is a defacto standard in the field of digital humanities which is widely used as an interchange format for a variety of genres and document types. Due to this long history and the many projects which are using TI, we have already and interoperability of resources, at least to a certain degree, which have been annotated in T. In this current version, T or that guy in coding guidelines don't include any specific models for the representation of CMC. We have a very lively community organized in several special interest groups and work groups which are continuously working on developing solutions for adapting the guy light guidelines to GNU usage contexts and projects so that he I guidelines are not fixed. To deviate from the standard and as long as you're following certain rules, you won't be compatible with the standard, but you will still comply with standard and this is really interesting. I have here a citation quote from the guidelines because the Tegan dates must cover such a broad domain and user community. The hybrid nature of written CMC between edits text on the one hand and spoken conversation on the other hand, since the AI doesn't offer anything for CMC, you have. Interactions more kind of paragraphs or division like an editor, text building, blocks of structural of text structures. The post is there a stretch of text on the screen. And then OK, the post we define a range of attributes that can be specified together with the post and one of these attributes is for example reply to which one we can make a reference to a previous post to which the user has been referring to. Reply to element. But we define a practice to say we use this in order to. We have a section there by of the. The other big challenge is how to do part of speech annotations for the micro level of CMC posts using tools from natural language processing and text sets. I'll talk about it a little later. I think you will agree that part of speech annotation is a very basic and a very important annotation layer in every type of corporate, because without the part of speech annotation we only have very limited options for linguistic querying and we have no basis for advanced processing steps of advanced annotations steps which require a useful linguistic preprocessing, such as six for example, past trees or syntactic annotations. Or historical data from Middle High German or something like that you it's getting pretty weird what you what you get as an output. Usually you can say we have at least we have three big layers of the description of linguistic data in corpora. How more or less conventions. The linguistic structure is the layer where we describe the discourse given a corpse document as a sequence of tokens as a sequence of part of speech as a sequence of certain syntactic structures, and on this layer we also describe features and phenomena specific for the genres under observation or for the research question for which the corpus is being built, and the third layer is the meta data layer. So the problem of tokenization has to be solved 1st, and if you think of the speedwriting phenomenon norm deviating use of white space and so on, then then there's a lot of problems that have been tackled in tokenization. Then you have categorization problems. Because of colloquial spellings, non deviating spellings for example, and the third category is category problems in which the attacker can design an adequate tech 'cause it doesn't know an adequate test take for the certain category. And one idea was to set up a community shared task or natural language processing for CMC in order to encourage people from the NLP world to address. We call it STTS 2 zero, which includes the whole Canonical STTS. Therefore, we decided that when extending the STTS text set to make our categories to a certain extent compatible with categories used for the part of speech, annotation of spoken language becausw. Not everything which is norm deviations in CMC is unique to CMC. Is the text that you can find the text it on the website of the Community share task. It is not 200% solves all problems, but at least the output is a bit better than the output that you would get if you're using an off the shelf tool attacker which hasn't adapted to CMC at all, so they did complete annotation, automatic annotation of our corpus with their tagging models, and in the second step we're doing a manual post processing of these tagging results, at least for part of our corpus. We can or we also do at the same time a manual normalization for the parts of the corpus which we which we are working with their. Via the same infrastructures, this is the vision for a project and the goal for project and then this project may, or the solutions developed in this project may probably serve as a model or at least as an example a good or a bad one. In order to learn from each other through exchange of expertise, experiences, resources and tools. And as an opportunity to find out where projects could agree upon using similar practices for similar challenges or where solutions from one project can probably be adopted by other projects and four other languages, and. Just to make clear what I will refer to as CMC, microstructures, and microstructures in the following CMC Macrostructures is the structure of the interaction as documented on the screen. The microstructures are not created by one passive participant alone but as an interactional achievement of all participant plus the system which mediates them which displays them, brings them into a certain order.