First of all, I will say a few words about the road network and Rd quality in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, then towards about the project objective. Then a special questioner that was prepared. First of all, you need pavement condition. In our we decided in our group to to define the conditions from very good to very poor in five categories, and so every country has the possibility to take the right after their standard Watts for somebody very good or very poor and so on. First of all, we look to the skit resistance. If not we go down and we have next condition. It's transfers are illness or writing. You can see is good condition of pavement is at border. Vetr at so you look if the surface defects you have or if the bearing capacity is good, that means you you take this line. Fair, that means that you would apply some local replacement of asphalt and at the end you made one of these kind of improving of skipped resistance. That means resurfacing or overlay. There, habilitation procedures and reconstruction techniques. Concrete, then some kind of surface dressing. This part is resurfacing to put some layer of asphalt. Forcement here you can use asphalt layers. The methodology is useful for all kinds of pavements, but especially for low volume routes. The translation in languages of participant countries is anticipated and very important. This is general network level. So the goal of the project was to prepare a simple methodology for determining measures on Rd with smaller traffic volumes. Let's say that low volume roads are roads with less than 300 passes of ASL standard extra load of 100 kilometer, and this was so their methodology was prepared for this traffic. But in general it works also for heavier traffic participant countries in this group, where from Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, and Slovenia. First of all, the data about the road networks in different countries. Then data about traffic, the density, traffic loading? Then the selection of measures on pavement. What are the climatic conditions? I will go very briefly cross this longitudinal roughness with the International roughness index.