[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you, chairman, for this introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The introduction about this work in the work desk free you got from mozza. And from Laslo we prepare some special guidelines. Very complicated.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Title, but the guidelines are very simple. The presentation the contents you have here on the screen. First of all, I will say a few words about the road network and Rd quality in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, then towards about the project objective. Then a special questioner that was prepared. Assessment of the condition of payment structures. Then the goal of this work, the methodology for systematic determining measures. Then I will present you 2 examples and then a few words about rehabilitation and technical procedures until the end.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Conclusion. In the last 15 years in the countries of certain and Eastern Europe's, the most energy was put to the main roads and to motorways to build new roads and so on, and so a lot of problems we have on the existing Rd network. For example in Slovenia we have about 6000 national roads and about 3000 kilometers are in bed pavements condition. He receives some crocodile cracks, load bearing capacity, not good illness and so on.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So the goal of the project was to prepare a simple methodology for determining measures on Rd with smaller traffic volumes. All low traffic volume we ask in our group ourselves what are roads with low traffic volume? And we looked for some technical definitions, but we didn't find some definition. So we decided in the group to say. Let's say that low volume roads are roads with less than 300 passes of ASL standard extra load of 100 kilometer, and this was so their methodology was prepared for this traffic. But in general it works also for heavier traffic participant countries in this group, where from Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, and Slovenia. And total length of roads in this country is in rough about 300,000 of kilometers.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
If you look to the stables and put this divide this table in three sub tables. First of all you have had here datas for motorways and main roads for regional Rd San. For local roads you see that at motorways and main roads the most traffic in percentages. Higher traffic load is higher than 300 SL of 100K. Newton and. Opposite in regional and local roads. The traffic load is slower and so all this this procedure that we prepare is focusing to all these routes in kilometer. The most of them. Of course you can see here also that for the local roads the data are not available about traffic loads, so so we don't have the moment this data.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
As I said before, we prepared in this work package special questioner, it was necessary to see how different countries deal with this. So we prepare. I will briefly go across this question. Are what kind of information we collect. First of all, the data about the road networks in different countries. Then data about traffic, the density, traffic loading? What is the permitted weight in different countries and what is the permitted excellent? Then we looked at what kind of pavement management we applied in different countries. Of course, all kinds of measurements. I will explain it for their own.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Then what kind of pavement structures we have in different countries? Flexible, rigid or combination semi rigid? Then the selection of measures on pavement. What conditions of pavement we collect traffic loading? What is the design. In different country? What are the climatic conditions? What is the bearing capacity of the base layers and other information? And then we looked to the design procedures. Is it on theoretical base? Is it on empirical base or is it on and of course, what kind of standardized procedure is used in different country?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
The assessment of the condition of the pavement structure. If you would like to apply this methodology, of course you need measurements, and we heard before in all these countries these measurements are done, but they are not done on a level on a lower network level, so it will be necessary for the future to make these measurements also at local Rd.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
It's if you have the measurements then you can apply this methodology here. Have this five measurements. I will go very briefly cross this longitudinal roughness with the International roughness index. Then the next transfers all roughness we had in the past. Big problems especially.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
That asphalt pavement pavement. But in the last year despite industry has make a big effort on this and this picture that you can see here. It's a picture from our motorway from 1994. You cannot find it anymore, but not only in Slovenia. I think everywhere in Europe. On motorways you don't have such pictures anymore.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Skipped resistance you heard before from my colleagues, Roland. I'm not very happy with the result that we have such problems with different equipment, but the situation is has he as he explained. At fault.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Great deflect emitter is one of the techniques for bearing capacity and at the end we have a lot of.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Kind of equipment for assessment of the pavement conditions. And so I'm coming to the methodology that.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
It was prepared. The methodology works by iteration. First of all, you need pavement condition. You need these five measurements and then you go from one to another and take the right solution for the pavement. In our we decided in our group to to define the conditions from very good to very poor in five categories, and so every country has the possibility to take the right after their standard Watts for somebody very good or very poor and so on. So it's not necessary that you take the same conditions in each country. Everyone takes this conditions for for him. First of all, we look to the skit resistance. If it is fair, poor or very poor, we go and make a treatment. If not we go down and we have next condition. It's transfers are illness or writing. Again, if it is fair or poor are you go to the. Look what's what is necessary to do. Then you have surface defect. Then international roughness index for longitudinal illness and at the end bearing capacity. At the end you have, as I say, different techniques to apply and now.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
In cases. First of all we have here wrote Regional, wrote the script resistance is very poor. Transfers are ravenous. You can see is good condition of pavement is at border. Longitudinal roughness is very good and we have also adequate load bearing capacity. That means.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Skeet resistance, we said is not good enough. You go to rats, you have no problems. Vetr at so you look if the surface defects you have or if the bearing capacity is good, that means you you take this line. Longitudinal evenus are good bearing capacity. Is good, but you see that the surface defects are let's say. Fair, that means that you would apply some local replacement of asphalt and at the end you made one of these kind of improving of skipped resistance. That means resurfacing or overlay. So for this.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Route you would take this too. Techniques to improve it. The second example you have wrote in a very bad.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Additions or measurements are bad. That means that you have sorry. That means that you go cross.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
This all categories. You come at the end to the bearing capacity. It's not adequate, and that means that you would put some reconstruction or strengthening of the roads. We would choose reconstruction ING of this bad conditions. So.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
I'm come to the next part of the presentations. There, habilitation procedures and reconstruction techniques. We take environment and friendly solutions. That means techniques which are friendly first or we have three general types of improving. First of all, is improving of surface characteristic. Then we have.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Resurfacing and reinforcement. If we look to the first improving of surface characteristic, some kinds of surface treatment, here we have a milling for.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Concrete, then some kind of surface dressing. Binder and then chipping. And here is.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Teen late dressing or slurry seal. Very known technology. The the 2nd.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
This part is resurfacing to put some layer of asphalt. You can use asphalt concrete for surf in more more important roles you wrote you can use stone mastics asphalt. Or if you would like to have a lower voice on the road you use porous asphalt. And the third ring.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Forcement here you can use asphalt layers. You can use inbound material and then asphalt layers in the last. Time very popular are recycling technologies with foam bitumen. With warm kind of asphalt mixtures and and so on.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And so I come to the conclusion. The methodology is useful for all kinds of pavements, but especially for low volume routes. The translation in languages of participant countries is anticipated and very important. Last law mentioned it before this. This is general network level. Each country must provide the appropriate procedure for the project level. Thank you for your attention. Other questions from the audience. One table away. You said at the high level roads nicely covered. Also the regional roads, but the information about local roads is really really scarce so or what do you think of what importance I have? These local roads in the overall context? Is it still viable to do payment management, asset management management without having all the details or or? It would improve as the number would be large. Maybe if needed with those of the large, do you think you would gain considerably or is it OK to leave them out to some extent? First of all, first of all, it's important. What would you like? Would you like to improve the quality or not? And then I would like say, local routes. You must say that you have again different categories of local roads. You can have local roads managed by state. Local roads managed by Mumu Disabilities and so on. So I think you must divide it routes in different categories and then you decide and take these measurements and so on. I think at the moment it's not. The idealistic to make measurements on all 300,000 kilometers of roads. But you must take some category and say we go a step forward and make the measurements and go and go ahead. Step by step. OK.
