[0.0s - 29.0s]
Alright now. So I recently transferred to Gallaudet University. This work, however, had its foundation before with some work that I was doing in Greece. I worked for the Athens University and that's where this work comes from.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I have a bit of an overview here for you. And it really pertains to sign language recognition. I want to show how sign language recognition can also directly reply or apply to gesture recognition. With gestures & language, there are a lot of commonality's an some differences between the two. We're also going to show you some videotape processing. And talk about how science can be divided into smaller parts. And there are two basic approaches that are used. One is the data driven approach. And I'll discuss that first, and Secondly, we're going to talk about an approach that is based on phonemes, and it has a lot of emphasis in linguistics. Next, we're going to do some experimentation and talk about those different approaches.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Let's look at gestures 1st and signs as well. 1st, as we talk about gestures, we talk about how they're isolated hand and body, as well as some facial movements. Nothing that has to do necessarily with sentence is. More so just individual movements. So we're talking about individual words & language from the dictionary and looking at complete senses for linguistic purposes, gestures & language, you can divide each small part into segments. An end to their individual primitives. Recognition and gestures does not take advantage of that frequently. But we will be using that in signs. The gestures are fairly limited. Anne there. Not really that standardized in sign language you have. More constraints, more limitations on exactly how you develop the signs, and so you can do more research into the specific.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Phonetic components of it. Sign language recognition recognition is obviously very complex. And for continuous sign sign, language recognition is even more complex. But it applies as well to gesture recognition, we've got to be able to recognize the individual signs. And so then as well, it will aid in the recognition of gestures. So if we focus on the individual sign recognition, then we can use the linguistics model to improve recognition. And I'll show how that applies to gestures as well. Sign language recognition has a lot of positives because for 30 years it has research that could be used.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
We'd like to take advantage of that research. The basic concept is that gestures and signs breaking down into individual segments. An their subunits. One subunit simply means one small segment. The primitive of the sign. So we have different approaches. There is data driven basic linguistics that uses phonetics. Both of those approaches. Have different benefits. An with those taken advantage of you can have a greater vocabulary base. You can use scalability. As well as it will improve the robustness. If you break it down into smaller parts, then which assigns different share between them? Then you can improve the robustness an reduce errors. But the data requires a great deal of training in order to. Understand the different.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Segments. I have three main goals with this presentation. I want to show how to work with a large vocabulary of signs. I want to compare the data driven as well as. The phonetic based breaking down of science sub Unix, and then Thirdly I would like to advance the knowledge about how to breakdown signs into their segments.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
This is the sign language data that we had available. We used Greek sign language. And there's continuing on going work in Europe. Greek sign language. As well as French and English and German, we haven't been working on those, but we will add those in the future. Right now we've been focused on Greek sign language. That is what we have focused on and have videotaped examples. Ann, we have 5 repetitions for each sign and two different signers. And we haven't done the independent signs yet. We will do that in the future. We've used 25 frames per second and interlaced. Those frames. Tracking an feature extraction depends on color models that we've used.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Skin color. This first shows the movement. It's interlaced in the videotape. And then we have deinterlaced in the second one. And we're using a skin color model extraction for the head and the hands in the final view. Will extract information about the position of the head. An the hands on the X&Y access, as well as the handshapes. You can see the red shows the right hand in green shows the left hand. I've got a videotape example.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Of the tracking. This is the sign that we use for tracking that's assigned for Greek sign for accidents, not the American Sign Language sign. They are very different signs, and they look somewhat different. The red follows the right hand, and the green is following the left hand. And then we also have a white dot that shows the center of the head. An we are measuring the X&Y axis and the relativity to the head.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
We extract that information on tracking the X&Y. Infrared information on the Axis an that improves our tracking. So on data driven subunits is what we're looking at. It's a very popular approach. There's been a lot of research in sign language using that approach. That's the reason that we first had very good results with it. An we find most of that work applies in the data driven. But the linguistic knowledge of sign language. Is easier to work with ultimately. So there are various approaches and I'm not going to be covering all of them. I'm just focusing first on that approach with gestures. Ann will be using both dynamic and static subunits to show that concept. It's fairly simple. Static means the hands do not move. For example, in Greek Sign language chair. This movement. That static part. And then the movement is a dynamic piece. First we break it down into each segment. It's really once you understand that it's very intuitive to understand the difference between the two. There are specific differences between static and dynamic.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Signs that the computer is unable to detect. So looking at static and dynamic processing rec, it's first important to recognize each particular smaller unit. That it can basically recognize. We look at different features between the static and the dynamic positions.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Now the first step here. With our data, we look at these data frames. These individual little clips that are analyzed. We look at velocity and acceleration for some of these segments. The model identifies the static nature or the dynamic nature. And then goes to one of two approaches with dynamic. It looks it can look at a dynamic segment. So it looks at the 1st frame. And gets the XY position. And then with each subsequent frame, it's comparing its relativity to the initial frame. It means that it normalizes them this position. It doesn't necessarily matter where the movement is, it just shares the same movement. So a particular hand shape can happen in any number of places but have the same movement. It then normalizes its scale. It doesn't matter if the sign is produced in a large manner or at a small manner, it is able to normalize what's going on with that particular movement. So it looks at that feature first. It looks at velocity. But first normalizes the position. And then looks at scale. And that's the dynamic process, but with the static process. It's a simple process. Of simply extracting the XY in the position, and that's all that's required. So all this data is then gathered and then the next step is to figure out the different clusters that occur. The dynamic is based on. A hierarchical approach with clustering. And static is more based on the K. Means I'm now going to show you some examples.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Other things that we've been able to identify so far with clustering. In this cluster we have three different kinds of straight movement. You'll see the red, the blue and the black that show that. The red is more concentrated. And then you'll see the black is more concentrated, as is the blue. Now in this cluster below, this shows more of a circular movement. You'll see more variety in the way that that's established. And then on the far right, you'll see more of a static cluster. And it identifies the different positions within the head. Age color is related to a particular position on the head. For instance, above the eyebrow, the cheek, the left cheek, etc. So next we like.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
To talk about phonetic modeling. Again, with phonetic modeling, we're extracting information from linguistics. There hasn't been a lot of recent work done in this particular frame of reference.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
I'd like to do a little bit of explain.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Mean phonemes an what we mean by phonetics. So the meaning of a phoneme, as you hear a spoken language, for instance, see individual sound that constitute the word that makes up the word. So for a spoken language, that's how we would. We would address this. And we're using this linguistic concept with sign language as well. Sign language has very small elements that are all making up that make up the sign, and so we can look at phonemes as individual small building blocks within a particular sign. In a spoken language, we might have the word. For instance, the word cat, which would be broken up into three distinct phonemes. We would have the car sound, the sound and the sound. Now this applies to sign language as well. Basically this is part of sign language. Handshapes, for instance, make up the sign. We also have the orientation. For instance, whether the sign is being made vertically or horizontally, we have the location. Does it happen on the head or the upper torso? We look at the movement of the sign, whether the movement originates from the body and outwards or inwards to the body, and other sorts of orientations like that. So we're looking for all of these different aspects within a particular sign, but with gestures. It's relatively the same concept we can borrow from the signed inventory.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Now I'd like to explain a little bit more about why phonemes are so important. With speech recognition. The most successful system. Would be the phonetic models. When we compare to data driven and phonetic modeling. In speech recognition, it absolutely Trump's the data driven approach. Also, another advantage is with phonetic modeling. Is it easier to add vocabulary to the overall dictionary with phonetic modeling with the data driven the? It can be a lot more difficult to add this kind of vocabulary to the dictionary. Also, with phonetic modeling, the implications. Reduces area of using this model. Produces the errors. So it hasn't been used as much yet with sign language research. Sign language phonemes are very complex and complicated. Phonetic modeling requires. To use the dictionary with the transcriptions. And that is an exceedingly high amount of work compared to, say, spoken language transcription, and it's expensive.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So I'm using the word annotation. And the difference between annotation and. Phonetic structure. Annotation is simply the description of how a sign looks. It simply indicates how that sign is is produced, and so I'm able to use an annotation or written annotation to produce a sign. But as that's not necessarily going to directly convert to a recognition system. So the exact structure and the exact time frame. It doesn't necessarily see that with the you'll see that in the annotation it's more advanced with phonetic rendering. It's not as advanced understanding. Annotation takes a great deal less time, whereas phonetic structuring, writing that down takes a great deal more time, and I'll show.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
What annotation looks like here? For annotation we use something that's called Hamburg notation system. It's a German created system of analysis. And the goal of the system is to make annotation more simplistic and smaller. The Greek sign for chair this. Is then shown here notated on the screen. You see the basic annotation of the sign in Ham, Gnosis. And when I look at that, I know what the sign looks like. This shows both parts the right and the left, that there is symmetry of movement in both hands. The symbol shows the handshape and S. Orientation where you hold it. That it's palm orientation. An shows where it starts that it's at the shoulder level location. This movement shows that it moves down. And this indicates repetition that you do it twice. So that uses 8 symbols. It's really a fairly complicated system, but it shows exactly what the sign looks like. It's a complex sign, but it's it's easy symbols to underst.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And. So new research in linguistics has developed this system. It's a phonetic structure of signs. It shows different components, and there's four different parts. There is posture. Detention. Transition. And steady shifts. Posture means it shows you where it's at, where the hands are right now, the location of it. Detention is the concept similar to posture, but you hold it for a moment, like chair. When you go down, you hold it right there, you don't move it. That is, detentions. Transition that shows the position transitioning to another position. That shows the transition the movement. And then S. The concept is similar to transition, but S means that you're figuring out precisely the path. And I'll show you the sign for chair. So the first position is posture. And then another posture shows you the next position. The movement between them is the transition and then you move back and so it's repetitive. That's why you have another transition, the up and down movement is both transition and then the hold is the posture. And that's the information you retrieve from annotation. That information is more explicit. That kind of explicit information is good for a recognition system. And it will apply in the future to a recognition system. The annotation you really can't. But it takes a great deal of time to create that system. And so in comparing with annotation as well.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
As the PDTS system, I'll show you what the difference looks like. This is the basic annotation for chair. It has eight symbols. The same sign, but including the full phonetic structure. I'll show you what that looks like now. Sex. It's a great deal of information. Everything becomes very explicit. So you see, that's the basic reason why it's difficult to take advantage of a phonetic recognition systems.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So an important step is to develop. There's an algorithm for the annotation, an extract that with the phonetic. System and develop those structures together. It becomes convenient to use. Then all of that data from annotation and try to reduce some of the human work. So it takes a great deal of work to come up with every segment for the sign, the position, the transitions, and all of that information, as well as the detentions. And we have to look at both the right and the left hand. How they move together and in comparison to one another. And it really requires a great deal of linguistic knowledge to do the work. And there's no time to really expand that, but. All of the symbols in Ham. No sys then will have to be utilized and memorized. You know exactly and then applied to the position and the different symbols and checking on how the positions change with an additional state.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So we extract that information with the phonetic structure. So we take sententiously. We take the smaller parts, then the next step is to apply the HMMS. So it practices the HMMS. And then it's possible to go ahead and assimilate that with the data. The data identifies some of the segments and positions the transitions in the beginnings and the ends. If it's not going to be required for recognition, but. It's useful as far as future steps for future work. Now I mentioned a little bit about HMMS. I know that they're not the best way to typify a classifier. We know that but Hmm's have three very important advantages, the first being for that kind of speech recognition. It's been used a lot and it's quite successful and has been. Utilized quite effectively. The computer can look at look at the work itself. In different components with the HMMS. Automatically. But with phonetic structure. If the HMMS are able to be recognized automatically. It'll save time. Secondly, with HMMS. It is more easily able to increase the vocabulary of the dictionary. And in other other sources are only able to add just words.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So let's look at phonetic structures and how they can be translated to HMMS. So we're going to look at a segment here with the Hmm's. Look at the position of this shoulder. And how that's related to the HMM in one state? And then you see the transition and the movement is more complex, related to the Hmm's, three to five states. Depending on what kind of feature you're using. And so on. And all of this together then. Gives us some. Standard practice opportunities.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So now I'd like to look at this next slide and talk about the sign that's being used which is assigned the Greek sign for pile. So if you look at this sign as I'm making it, that's the sign for pile. Do you see the individual smaller segments? And the practice results. So the computer itself is automatically able to segment these. And create the phonetic structure for this. So first of all, in this very first clip you'll see this movement. Which is basically the neutral position as we begin the sign for pile, then you see the movement up to the top or the apex for the pile signed to begin. It's called the Epin thesis. It's the same as a transition, so. It does. There is no meaning in this particularly. Then with the next slide you'll see this position with the hand shapes at the top of the slide, so this is the movement that's being made in that next position. The position with the hands. Facing one another on either side. And that's the final position in the sign for pile, and then they return to the neutral posture. Here you have the frame by frame account which shows each particular frame by number with the data that we're extracting from that.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Now here's some more examples of how the phonemes subunits and what they look like. I'm more of a graphic representation, so here you have more of a common movement from this. Up to the head. You'll see most of the data clustering together. There are some outliers. Because there is going to be some mistakes made in the annotation. Sometimes, linguistically we have abstract, step abstract comp constructs. And so there are some differences between this and linguistic thinking. I'd like to show you another example over here. Which is more of a circular movement? And there's some variables with this as well, and then here will have movement from down down to the right. And over on the far one you'll see the movement is going across kind of a circular across the body.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Or across the body. Not circular interpreter correction. Now let's look at the posture as an example of posture recognition. So there's four different we've got the head. The top of the head. That we have the head itself. We have the shoulders and we had the stomach region. And so this is these show different positions. So at the very top of the head. It looks a little strange. You don't see it up where the top of the head is, but you'll see a lot of people signing. Right here in this position that I'm showing you which is about I height. In the future, our work will be. It will be very important to figure out exactly where the hand comes in contact with the body. But for now, this is where we're at. So then you see the white triangles that show the actual head region. Most of them are accurate, but you'll see against some outliers and then. You'll see a lot of times that there is some inaccuracy going on. Often because of the practice with the HMMS. Phonetic labeling isn't necessarily a good fit for this. Here you'll see the shoulder region signified, and then the stomach. So now I want to talk about what we've identified in the six.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Periment recognition just as a data driven unit isn't where we're going to end, so we're going to talk about how we practice that recognition with the phonetic subunit concept added in. So the practice is based on, then the phonetic structure with the data.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
These are the results that we've achieved. This is the one that's most important to recognize that the red line shows the data driven and the specific accuracy that it has. The black line shows phonetic recognition accuracy. And then there is the number of signs as you move to the right. And you can see that obviously the phonetic model really Trump's the data driven, but it's really interesting experiment to see how well the phonetic. Model Beats data driven and that was quite a surprise and we're pretty excited to check on that some more and do some more investigation into the power of linguistics in this sort of research. This shows that. Between the different models this is using HMM and using the different approaches, both data and phonetic. It was really interesting that phonetic approach was also more successful using HMM. This graph is showing a focus on the data driven and how much clusters it is needed for. The best results in this experiment. For all of the signs, really. For 1000 signs we need about. 500 clusters

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So the big picture, what we've gotten from this. 1st is that sign language annotation so far is fairly rare. The reason is because of human annotation. It's so much work and there's a great deal of errors involved. So when we improve recognition, it will help with that. Using Ham Gnosis, there's no information regarding structure and time sequencing. And converting to the phonetic structure combining that information will be more effective. The data driven approach. There is no human time factor, but the subunits has no. Correlation with the linguistic concepts. It's tough to add additional vocabulary and additional signs it with the data subunits. We want the linguistic subunits with meaning so that we can. Add more information. We can use the. Specifics to develop. A better structure, the annotation right now. Um? Takes so much time. We don't want to throw out the data driven model. Completely, we'd like to use it in the future work, but right now we want to develop the phonetic structure and then be able to align the two. And frame that information to work together with the data driven process. There is a great deal of future research available in the.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Seria? Thank you so much.
