The dream is to combine two kinds of evolutionary systems. One that we know because we are experts in it. And as we had the biosphere and evolution of computing in the Fenty Century, we may have, I hope we will have the evolution of things in the 21st century. It's called the effects of evolutionary a lifetime learning on minds and bodies in an artificial SoC. You may say interesting result, but. Always offline evolution versus online evolution. A particular controller you call a black box at the black box is a whole of workflow of simulating that things behavior. For lips on a Bullock about the automatic design and manufacturing of robotic lifeforms. Or do some other rapid prototyping mechanism to do to produce this. In the 20th century there was an invention. Using that, we could create new evolutionary processes and we went from bio to silico, from in vivo to in silico, from vetera to hardware. This is already much closer to what I'm after, but the bodies are fixed. The morphological features and the controllers of some Lego robots. It was very interesting, although technically speaking it was not very exciting or challenging becausw, the search space was very very small, so there were only 800 something possible configurations of the morphology and there were just six parameters here. There is no genotype behind it. They build the build discourse acts. It's really self replicating. They will never meant this permanent staff that would usable organisms and there was very little work on the old hardware. Had an evolutionary process running without a fitness function. But after some departure from earlier approaches, what they did not have is a quality measure, a quantifiable quality measure that would govern selection. He studies a biological question, being a biologist, and he uses robots as a physical model of a biological phenomenon as opposed to the digital models that we do, and he does every single fitness evaluation in a water tank. The title of the book is what does it teach us about the history of life and the future of technology. So the EA is running on the computer and it provides configuration signals for this stuff and the stuff does some computation that solves our problems. Sometimes you have evolution in the physical space and the result in the digital space. This was the simple fundamental insight that made it possible to employ evolution as a workhorse, and it. We need some genetic encoding for their morphology and controllers. We need real birth and death. Once again, it's a generic framework with many possible incarnations actually. And from the conceptual point of view. But it is doing, you know, just survival mating. If there is a task environment, an if it meets another Organism and they decide to have a child, then the conception happens again and the cycle starts all over. Think here is birth for artifacts. Probably there will be no Oracle. And finally, the environmental selection in the noise are given, so we may want to have some robots for a certain task, but we. Through the concept of an evolutionary algorithm. Different so the research Mo will resemble that of. Then you have to define the inheritable elements. You have to design A habitat with overnight tasks, set goals, make hypothesis, run experiments. One preference to one selection moment and the natural thing to do is then parent selection by task performance and sort of US survival selection by the environment. And we tested. Is what came out so on the left hand side you have viable with the defined by the number of inseminations number of mating X. Without the task at the blue one is with the task OK. Is the first proof of concept of this idea. It implements the whole triangle of life in an ecosystem where the organisms are made from roombots. As Daniel Dennett put it, if you have variation, heredity and selection that you must get evolution. There is a birth clinic in the middle, so if two individuals meet, they beam over there. And on the science part, I would like your fundamental studies on evolution. You could say this will be evolutionary computing 2.0. They could have artificial pets. Remote environment. As for science, for the first time, we would have Corriveau verbal bodies and minds and this will change a lot. It's a 2000 year old question. It is how the body shapes the mind. And this is man made, but there could be evolved self absorbed architectures you hardware which will certainly find new software. A final is the population in evolutionary computing, at least the standard base thing there is to keep the population size constant, make sure. So this is average computing now and this would be evolution of things. the Internet of Things, meaning all stuff is connected. And the evolution of things. Also for the SoC, so definitely there will be new economy in some sectors. The To Do List tells us what do need, what do we need to vote, steps to remove to go through? Tell what's good, what's bad an define the selection operators that use this for stealing the algorithm? One is increasing the diversity by the variation operators and this is a push towards novelty and the other one is decreasing the diversity by selection operators. We also understand that a good evolutionary algorithm needs a balance between these two. To put it simple, but the going gets tough. Reasonable costs.