So typically we have some information needs and these information needs are complex, so we want to know what factors lead to a high corruption rate in different countries or what. How can we improve the quality of living in cities or we as researchers wanna now how to publish more scientific articles and so on and so forth. That case it's a recommender system extension which also exists for rapidminer. And on two out of three task, we were actually the best performing systems out of 20 four other systems. So what you can do is you can run outlier detection again. This performance quite well. Alright, in summary, this challenge entry we proposed brings data analysis to the web of data, so it creates that bridge between the two worlds and it can be used by data analysts without requiring them to learn sparkle. In the end, we probably have some local data at hand, which we want to analyze. For those of you who don't know, rapidminer, it's an open source platform for data mining for predictive analysis. I'll show you examples in a minute and you can create those. Process is just by wiring operators in a user interface, so you don't need to do any programming in that. There's plenty of operators which load data for you which transform data, which creates predictive models and so on. I haven't checked that number, I just believe them to tell the truth. So we add some more operators to rapidminer, so those operators are capable of accessing local and remote semantic web data, so loading RDF data, showing sparkle queries, loading data from RDF data cubes and stuff like that, we offer operators that allow you to link your local data into data that is in the data cloud, so using services like look up or performing sparkle queries that look for items with certain labels and so on. You can also, if you find data at different sources, you can match them, fuse them together into a unified form. We heard that in Nigel's keynote this morning that this is one of the main obstacles in promoting link data to people who are not from our community. So this is the question that interests us of course, so which which factors correlate with the increase of published scientific and technical Journal articles? So what we found out in that example use cases correlations, for example, there is something called the fragile State index which correlates with the number of population. Um, it's you could say, OK, probably people just stay inside if it rains, and then they can write more articles, but it's more likely to be due to unequal distribution of wealth across different climate zones. Some some more use cases. We used that for K. One thing is some, there are predictive tasks so so one typical predictive tasks which is very well known. And we have shown that if we link those cars to DB pedia and start from there collecting additional information about the cars we can reduce the prediction error of a standard. Prediction algorithm by half.