It has 23 physiological compartment and it. 13 butadiene you, inhale it and when you stop emailing, also exaggerate after that or metabolism in the liver. Now, while look at cellular level because if we consider that we have approximately 10 to 14 cell, we have about 1.410 to 12 S per liter. Exposure to butadiene, you get butane when you smoke cigarette, for example, live next to a smoker in general, in the general environment in Japan is about .25 UG. Meter cube but not too much myself and two concentration about 10 times at or five times that is associated to an estimated excess cancer risk of 10 to the minus five. But with uterine given molar mass, then those numbers which are present in the environment or very close to it correspond to 2.5 to 1012 or one point 18.710 to 12 molecule politics. We did stochastic simulation using dizzy. And simulated 100 cell in not cells and number of molecules per cell at the given time. If you have here an underlying dose response model, for example, cancer models that as a threshold here, well the fact that the threshold for a given exposure concentration you have values number of molecules in the cell means that you can have some effect even below the threshold when when you look at the overall. You work, you work, and you're exposed to butadiene during your work days. Partly, you don't go back to 0. Let alone the reverse, to do to do inference which might be needed. But it is difficult to couple these stochastic simulations with the output of Monte Carlo simulations. Maybe we can think about doing things together, but it seems that M system and its capabilities to do hierarchical modeling in quite easily could be a benefit to to data analysis in system biology. And now at the moment we have not worked a lot and I didn't show a lot of things on model structure. The structure we use is quite obvious because its anatomic and physiologic level. So physiologically based pharmacokinetics model describe the body, human body or animal body or fish body or any signal app data set against if you want with a set of compartment describing organs or tissues, where substances or transported metabolise, transformed, eliminated from an. I mean it provides data integration. Well, OK, that's fairly standard. The kind of data we have are typically time series data kinetic. So they say the inference can be made via MCMC multi level Bayesian framework. Typically we use Metro police within Gibbs Metropolis and the full set of parameters just for matrix. Space of the parameter space sizes are typically from 10 to 100. There are obvious because let's say PK model started about everybody. So we are interested in developing better metabolic networks and in particular for interactions between chemicals. Our regulatory network models, for example, and also some things that we don't usually do with these deterministic model is to look at the impact of stochasticity, an activity at the cellular level, and I'm going to go more into that. So what we do is just extending away metabolic network with distribution, transport, description.