I would therefore call cognitive systems engineering. You have to be able to measure it somehow and you have to have a metric that's believable. You want to be sure your metric is measuring what you think is is success. It doesn't measure the right thing. If you're a customer, if you work for a company that's engaging some Corporation to build a cognitive system for you, you have to be prepared to give up your data because building cognitive systems, it's mostly data science. Nevertheless, you need something you need to be able to measure. OK, so you're measuring an algorithm that produces the right answer, but it's not in your reference standard because there's so many right answers. Whether you're familiar with the person, all of these other things, and that's a simple machine translation problem, but you need to have some collection of it, and you hope the more you get, the better you'll do. Do you give it credit for giving an answer from one community and not giving the answer from another community? OK, Data Data, data, Truth, Truth, Truth measure measure measure. So the function for you know machine translation takes in some string in one language and spits out the translation for question answering. Most smartphones today have these next generation PDAs, PDAs, or personal digital assistants like the original BlackBerry, which had your calendar and your contact list and all in a convenient thing with a bizarre keyboard. Life in more sophisticated ways. And generally speaking, there based on statistical models of how the information about your state that they have access to correlates with actions that you take. Understanding the question, that's what's hard for the machine, and so I moved into natural language processing when I moved to IBM. Laura bikes everyday to work an and her Google Now application has figured out that she does that. So it knows about meetings that you have and where they are, as it knows about locations and so one day she had to have a meeting 40 kilometres away knowing her preference for biking. Context is the mysterious missing information. And again, whether you using machine learning or not, I'm really talking about measuring the performance of a system. This function tends to be a mapping that minimizes the distance between some of its inputs and your truth. But there is a flaw in a big flaw in this idea. I need to know if there's an ocean between these things get added to the context in this context. You know his Mo and so for me, my torn shirt is using explicit semantics to improve performance, so would be grateful that I'm not actually going to tear. Explicit semantics part of Watson. But the world has changed. This change in the way computers are treated. This idea that there's a new software paradigm. Explicitly say not that we invented this new paradigm, but it's been emerging slowly, wasn't always clear. So. An A lot of the people there who weren't technical didn't really understand anything about why it was new, but they sort of got the message that it was new and therefore to them. So I think this is sort of the definition as close as anything can be defined in this space of what I mean by cognitive computing, we're talking about computing systems that can fail and still be useful. So you need to be able to answer this question whether or.