[0.0s - 29.0s]
Alright, I have the pleasure to start. Was the first of our three. I'm Peter sharla. I'm with John in research and our Institute of Information Systems and Information Management for a couple of years now. I have background in film, restoration and video analysis, and video search in content description. Uh, yeah in the security area video analysis. So in a couple of topics which we.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Today my talk will be mainly about give an overview about which kind of video analysis modules we have worked on are still and still working on and very research is going. Which direction reaches research is going. Will give you an outline of different analysis modules in the status of it. Then I'll give you an overview of 1 application where we are integrating data analysis tools. I will give you some aspects about how to deal with metadata of audiovisual media about content. Description metadata Interoperability is 1 big topic. And finally, short outlook about video annotation so semi automatic video annotation. Oh

[58.0s - 87.0s]
For. For the video analysis modules. I have to say that we are working mainly on visual analysis, so audio analysis there are other experts we're doing which analysis and we're doing all that analysis in the uncompressed domain, so there is a lot of research work in the compressed domain. We try to be encoding independent, so all what we have here is usually done with some software library and software environment where we have we are supporting different encodings. And bring it to to the algorithms and they're running them totally in the uncompressed domain. OK, yeah, there are several tools. Maybe we have. Winter. OK, I will start here. There are just some simple tools. Oh, that's great. Thank you very much. There are some simple tools like like shot detection which is able to detect hard cuts and throttle transitions, diesels and hide and fade out and that stuff in a video. There are some common usual tools like keyframe extraction and less you. My usual tool is the so called Stripe image extraction which is more advance. Few of the video if you have here at the timeline of the whole video with the keyframes here on the top and the cut detected here in below. Edit vertical line. Here is a cut indicated. Then you have here below this so called Stripe image which is a temporally dense representation of a video. So what you can see in here you can see even also today to change of the content. For example a cut or where they can see also here is for example assume in or assume out so that stuff. This is good for navigation purposes. We have the next tool. We have developed algorithms for extracting characteristic camera motions. This is for example pen left and right tilt up and down. Zoom in and zoom out. We detected that on the sub shot basis. So if there is first a static shot we can detect it. If then it's going assume in we did expect that segment does assume in segment. All that leads to that representation or visualization which we are using very common in our applications for getting an overview of content for navigating inside that kind of representation of visualization of a video is suited for several minutes of video to get in one view the content. Alright, then we had detect we developed a couple of tools based on keyframe features which will keep frame features. The ones are some global color and texture distributions and the other ones are interest point oriented, so uncertain specific points where you have corners or. Yeah, usually corners or some significant textures features are extracted and they are then further unused. How do you used? Yeah, all that features the visual keyframe features the local features and the global features are used for retake detection for retaking and movies. Shot for setting re detection so to detect when. Different shots are taken in the same setting, for example from different angles. And for this. Alright, this local interest points are also used for object detection, so a user can mark for example in one frame of the video can market rectangle and then all this feature points inside the rectangle extracted and which are representation of the object of that which is inside that rectangle. And you can find an occurrences reoccurrences of that object in the same video. This is sift based. It's the technology used there. Yeah, maybe just ask you. Exactly this feature is incorrect. Usually usually. In general, always here on the top. I'm going until down is is usually fully automatic, OK, and even if you're doing object detection, have done some interaction, you need some automatic analysis step before. For example for the whole video to extract that local interest points, but based on the local interest points which are available then. From the offline process you can do interactive. Object detection suppose is necessary in this case.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Alright, a different kind of category of algorithms we're working on is about. Faces and persons detection faces. Very we can detect the face locations and also how many faces are inside video shot. On the side of the persons. This is research which is currently going on. We have two detection approaches. One is appearance based based on the histogram of gradients approach. There we can detect full body persons but also partial body. What means from usually from torso to up. One example of that partial body detection is here on the right side. So what you see here is the individual detection on each frame. Justin each individual frame of the video just detector is applied and for example, the people here going up. They're also detected. Even the legs are not not there, so this is partial body detection. This would not be possible if you're doing full body detection. Then you would have weight also legs. OK. The second approach we're working on is counter based approach active shape model. There is the main idea that you are searching for a certain shape. For example the shoulder and the head shape. You can see here on for example, cool. Here nicely it's too small for here. Yeah, you're fitting the knowledge. You do have a knowledge about the shape of the holding, the shadow. You're fitting that shape too. In the video, finding locations, fitting that and tracking that overtime, what do you see here then at that? These lines here is the track overtime so you can follow the people you can count. You can make statistical analysis out of that, for example. This is, I think, on the. Railway station in Vienna and they want to do with that. Some analysis of the of the flows of the customer flows inside the building. We're providing here the detection and tracking technology. OK, just mood yeah. This research is ongoing research. The next steps here in is to extend that approaches to different object classes. For example, detecting also different kind of vehicles like car, bus, trucks and so on. We will probably mainly focus on the histogram of gradients based approach, since this is an appearance based approach and is more suited to different object classes. But this will just starting. This will be in next half year where we think that we have results on different object classes and it's not limited to that object classes, so it's a it's a technology when you have some samples of your object about the appearance of the object, you need samples to train train the detector. If you have that. If you have 100 or 1000 samples of an object, you can train it and then quite reliably detect that object whatever object it is, it must just look. Similar. Yes, so in this case here, for example, this is the from the hook detector. We trained the upper part. Off of persons. You need some some hundreds training samples usually, but you can train also totally different things you could train. Never a laptop or. Whatever is in your River environment and has the similar appearance end of the training samples here. Depends on how similar. For humans, you can get up in the 90% if you're in a condition value. We have alright good light distribution. If you, for example, indoor and outdoor is different. If you are in outdoor, you have much more contrast. You have shadows much more than it gets more difficult, or the precision is going down. So it depends on the lighting condition. And on the variability of the object you want to detect. But for example, histogram of gradients is state of the art, so this is currently what is possible. And we're extending also that algorithm in respect to speed into quality currently.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
OK, maybe a different topic, but I don't know if it fits for your work or for our work. Just want to mention that we are working also on the video quality analysis. Currently we're developing detectors for for the noise inside the video noise level. How much noise is inside? How much does this inside? How much blocking coding defect is inside? Other black friends inside, yeah. Future research which is. Starting starting in the near future, it will focus on unsteadiness, shaking. Focus on freeze frames, which is traditional material defect. Lost frames. Certain test patterns. For example, if you have a vertical stripe test pattern. From videotapes or something like that and also flickering so flickering from historic material, but can also be flickering from. For example, if you have an inference now with this camera here with the lighting of the top here you have also flickering inside. We want to detect also this.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, we have then one tool is called the media Analyze tool which integrates somehow our automatic detection algorithms. Yeah, it's allows to import videos. It allows us some manual text annotation so called global annotation may make the creation production information it allows. The automatic extraction of the video meta data about the technical metadata about encoding length and that stuff. And it runs inside all all the automatic analysis regular isms we saw before, at least most of them already included here. It takes some different. It takes some different video standards like DVD, MPEG, different standards, Windows Media standard and so on, and this output it produces an impact 7 XML file which is meta data format for describing the content or detected features inside the video. This works currently on Windows.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK. I will come to my second part of the presentation. It's about here meta data meta data into availability. Why I come to this? We are working a lot with video analysis, so we had the need to describe outside the results of that analysis and we started some several years ago to think about that. How best described analysis results and. To how to exchange this information? For example, the short information or objects found inside the video, how to exchange that information and make it available to search systems or to video annotation systems or whatever other system it requires. Oh this is just an indication of the whole what kind of meta dater? Are necessary in the different steps of creating a content of managing a content and of distributing that content so. The only thing I want to mention here is there are a lot of metadata related to audiovisual media. Starting from identifying the media production information is necessary. Then process related information. What we're mainly working on is describing the content. This is all what is here on the content related information. Then there can be some links to other sources with relational or Richmond information and the media. Can have some publication and writes information, so a lot of metadata are there.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
A lot of. Standards are there also for audiovisual media, so in the professional domain we have very old standard like Dublin Core. But I still used since it's that simple that everybody can use it. There are, you know, there's a MSI formatted for data and metadata exchange. There is a simply recommendation from the EU is in Europe, very active for standardizing metadata stuff. Then there is impact seven, which I will focus on. The next slides. Then there's impact 21 and. There are also. There's also initiatives to standardize or try to standardize content descriptions based on semantic technologies, RDF and OWL. OK, our focus now recent works and what I'm talking about today is what we're doing with the content analysis results. So we have to identify the content needs some production information, but the main focus is that we want to describe the content. In a detailed way, so special speech, temporally video, temporally and spatially. For example, the location of her face. I want to describe it also in a detailed way. We want to use also controlled vocabulary. For example, when linking to a semantic store and with some. Well, using a classification scheme for controlled vocabulary. Sure, the media content semantics we want to also describe. To bring it to one point, we worked several years on how to reduce the Impact 7, four and still using it. And it's fine for that. For detailed content description. If you have really the spatial temporal structure description, the objects occurring inside that stuff on the other side, what we are trying also in several projects now to use RDF and OWL for describing the semantics of the accountant, at least on a global on a global. Nick Global styles of would mean for the entire media and what we're also trying to do is to link the detailed descriptions with the global descriptions now defenbaugh. What I'm focusing on now in my next slides is about the stuff on the impact seven side about the detailed description. Michelle will wait around, focus, then on that that part about semantic description based on RDF and OWL.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Yeah. In epic 7. We did several things. One thing is to think about. You have to imagine Epic 7 is and. Quite comprehensive standard so you can describe there a lot. You have all capabilities from describing detailed or describing different modalities, describing a summary, describing the usage describing right stuff. So you have a lot of functionality is inside. This is an advantage if you need it. This isn't right back if you want to focus on something and want to make metadata interoperable. So what you have to define, you have to define how to use Impact 7. And this is called a profile like in all other impacts standards. But just here is an meta data related standard. So what we did and since it was not available and is still not available in the standard is too. Specify how we're using MPEG 7. Four deals that description of audiovisual media. We call that detailed audiovisual profile. Main function it is inside is that we can describe single media or the image audio video. Then we can structure the description temporally or spatially and hierarchical structure. Then we allow the description of the media of the creation information and usage information. We allow textural and semantic annotation. We allow the description of visual and audio features. This meant detailed features for example like like color, histogram or texture enter stuff. We support also for browsing capability and summarization, but we did not include it. Yes. Content organization and user interaction tools. So we want just to describe the. Content in a detailed way, but don't want to use Impact 7 as a vehicle for describing interactivity with the content. This is a different difference in. We included as the tools we included fully Part 3 which is audio and Part 4 which is their their visual features and we included also from Part 5 which is the core part of impact 7. The necessary features to support that functionality. What we did or what is important also is how to validate when you have an epic 75 examine XML file. How to validate whether this description is. Is conformant to that profile or not? There are two aspects. The one thing you can validation by an XML schema file. We have done that, but it cannot be possible to validate, for example, the structure of an epic 7 file that you have in a certain part of the XML file to the right description. For example the shot. This shot structure is described here, and the faces are described here and so on. So you need some additional functionality, and we built that. There are, we call it a semantic validation service which is available under this. This address. Yeah, so the main target application fields of that profile. There are other profiles already standardized accent, but main target application field of our profile is applications which deal with audiovisual content analysis with summarization of that content describing summarization and describing content. Analysis results here and so we have for exchanging meta data in the detailed meta data between systems. Systems can be two other annotation systems can be 2 search and retrieval systems. We used what we developed this profile server during several projects. Here is just a listing of the different European Commission funded projects and with all the partners involved which are using or have you stand still now using that profile? So there are big ones inside or small ones inside. Until now, we didn't want to standardization. Things for standardizing something in impact? You need some very big, very big industry players and you need to not just one. You need 3 or 4 industry players to get it through standardization and the standardization in the MPEG tried to standardize some years ago. Some detailed description profile, but they failed since they could not agree on a common one. So what we did was something pragmatic. We said we have. The requirements, all of that projects we want to exchange results of our motivation analysis results and we have just defined the profile and we're using it and we're spreading it through the projects. No, this isn't just in representation of the meta data of the description, so it has nothing to do with OK, nothing to do with State Orvis with essence encoding, this is a different stuff. Yeah, so we're dealing with that that we have some very video file usually and we have an in and big one or whatever, right back two or whatever format. Ascension coding and we have for that file also an epic 7 XML file describing all the content analysis results. Yeah, there are capabilities in different standards to carry. With the content or in the container which contains also the content. Also the meta data. This is possible in a mix F and I think in MPEG four is also not possible, but we didn't use that so far since we are more in the content analysis and annotation side and not on the delivery side.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
OK, yeah, information about digital, which probably you can find under our Impact 7 website here on the bottom.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Second tool which we developed for Epic 7 is our library and book 7 library. Which allows to creation and manipulation of impact 7 XML documents. So it's in C++ API it implements. All epic seven parts which are relevant for description. So Part 3, four and five is fully supported. Um? Yeah, this is more technical we built in a lot of convenience functionality that application developers can wrap it. Produce such. Such epic 7 objects which are then. Put use inside and pick seven objects which are then serialize to an epic 7 XML file and can also be parsed and produce. Reproduce them. Pick seven objects where the application can deal with that objects. So we built a lot of convenience inside and its functionality inside to access different parts of the impact. 7 description to produce even total description fragments with one statement also with X possible orientation. This library is running under windows. There is also now a Mac version and that. Different Unix versions. Yeah, it's freely available also under our impact seven site, yeah? Have it. Do you know how many many people have downloaded that so far? 1000 to last. So we started on the website. I think some two years ago. So we have now about 1000 registered people there or they have downloaded it. The number of people who are using it is for sure much lower, but there are still in contact with and continuously in contact with a lot of people who are using it. So it has some impact in the community. Support via email and pick it frequently request. I mean it's not 100 a day at least. So these are the people have problems. Yeah, sure yeah. Sure for sure. Other ones which yeah, I'm happy with it and using it in.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Yeah, what are we doing currently on the impact seven side? Oh yeah, we are extending our profile detail automation profile. For example when for quality description we are working on quality detectors when we want to describe the result of then we say OK we defining how to describe that in which part of the description it fits in and this is the extension of the profile for example of that. One topping is about. Meta data editing, which is a quite new topic, so we are used to to work with non linear editing of editing of content. But the same topic we have with meta data. If you edit source content. And you have also made the data for the source code that you only want to use that after editing of the content that meta data. You have to think about how to edit metadata. Um? Then we are working on the semantic. The validation technology for semantic semantic technology for validation of epic 7 descriptions. And we are continuously extending our Impact 7 library for example. Currently we have an extension library for quality description in work.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
OK. One thing about video annotation. Um? I don't know. If it is. Relevant for all common work, but I just had an idea we I want to give you the the information that we are working for several years now and tools which allow on the one side the visualization of automatic analysis results and on the other side this is for example here on the bottom what we saw before. And on the other side allows the annotation of the content. The manual annotation so some user is sitting before and says here is some objective. The manual annotation in one application. And for that purpose it's possible to the main functionality or the basic functionality, which is we are using in several applications, is the capability that the user can structure. Temporally structure the video in segments. In this case it's very simple. This here is a short structure, but you can imagine that there are totally different temporal structuring criteria. For example, if you have video lectures, you couldn't make a temporal structuring for chapters or introduction main and so so they are the basic capabilities that we can temporally structural video and the user can in a simple way. Fine, that's temporal structure. And then each segment of that structure, for example for a chapter or four and shot or whatever the temporal domain is, he can annotate then semantic information like persons or some event information or organization information. And we can use. Therefore, it is this here on this right side, like here persons or objects, or currying or events occurring in a certain section of the video. Uh. We can use besides. This information also external controlled vocabulary currently. Included are classification schemes which are quite simple, but we have also one connection done too, and semantic storton claim knowledge by assessing. Uh, and we have foreseen also that we can bring years. He also test, sorry. Or other knowledge basis, whatever technique technique is behind. So this could be. Something interested if somebody wants, for example, to annotate some ground rules and information on the temporal structuring, or some ground rules information about objects occurring in a video when their temporal instruction. So a tool for. Manually annotation of detailed information or the temporal structure of the video. If you would like to see a demonstration, I have it awesome. And later go go through there.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
OK, I think this was my talk. Uh. Other questions. Is the hip side is cemented calibration? Turn on find my Windows recorder. We have one we have currently one project which is in the ITV area and there will be a tool developed which is capable of doing on the fly. On the fly annotation. But dilatation capabilities are very limited due to the time constraint so. You have to real time constraint. And for certain purposes, just could be possible. How much? I think you in this case there. Yeah, the video is coming in. The video is played and usually they have. Some prepared annotation objects. You could imagine, for example, have a sports event and you have some five or ten players, and you have prepared some information about the players prepared before before the event. During life annotation, you could say that operator in the live video says click. Here in that point. Should be that information from that player annotated and the tool is then automatically linking that on the one side on the other side, tracking that player and make it accessible to the end user on the end user side. On the other side, setup box or mobile device. He gets in rectangle over the object and he can then click on the object that wrecked object. For example, the football player and get some website information or some additional information. So the real time. Interaction for annotation is very limited, so one click or maximum rectangle and that that's it. You're in hurry. I don't know what you have in mind, maybe I'm. Who the lectures like it could be very useful with people under 5 miles. Just state official site. Connecticut video value. So it was very coming home. Just let me know. Training site. There are lots of work to be done after this video. And I think that the timing is the time travel. But I could imagine also, for example, that problem you have the video available and you could imagine the tool which is detecting the change of the slide. So an automatic analysis tool. I see I see. You would need some some interaction to define. Attention. I think there are already tools there. There wasn't project in. Mr Project identity. I think they did something like that. Yeah, so to recording also the mouse clicks. After of the one person who is doing the presentation. So taking the hardware information, well, yeah. Breaking innovation tracking which you apply actually enables you. Then in whatever point in time on video user, once a notation of a person, it can get it right so you know. This is the idea. Yes, that's right. Yeah, one hour later I can. One notation of their personal OK. The principle idea is yes, the operation of the operator for annotation should be as low. As possible, so just in one frame, clicking on that object and linking some kind of information. OK, what tracking can provide as long as the object and the appearance of the object is visible and is similar over the frames and automatic tracking tool can say yes. OK, that object is going to that that that that position is moving and very dis moving too. This has limits, sure. If you have a football game with with just. If you have, for example, if there are 10 people going together, football game in the worst case you cannot track a person anymore. Even for a for a human not possible. Yeah, so there are limits for usually by occlusion of objects. If the occlusion takes a long time you have no chance to later on find the same when you have a chance you can do some more sophisticated stuff then, but then it's not a real time process. So I have to say the topic terrorism from the security area and the topic is to track objects. In this case persons over cameras, different cameras. The challenge there, I think is not. There are not there. Overlapping cameras are the non overlapping ones. It's even more this is even more difficult. Yeah, there is a lot of work in the Washington Main and then the surveillance domain. Yeah, we're starting that work for tracking persons. Non overlapping cameras. Yeah, the same. Watching the same thing at the same place. OK yeah, overlapping camera case, yeah. We can talk about it. Sure. Alright. OK, thank you very much. Will give over to Eric.
