So, and it's also, I mean, machine learning is probably a bit too overstated. So why would you do multimodal neuroimaging benefits? Are for clinical applications. There is no gold standard. The way we do that is. It will be the same across subjects. And this was the common activation pattern of 25 subjects watching the same movie. Then I will present some examples for cleaning artifacts from multimodal recordings. Yeah, so here we treated each subject as a separate modality and we used multimodal analysis too. Do hyperscan essentially. And that means that we get a higher signal to noise ratio. And this allows us to analyze complex stimuli without regressing. Yeah, then we looked at decoding neural dental from fMRI, and we've seen that complex spatial temporal deconvolution's are better than standard Canonical HRF. As I mentioned, there is no gold standard analysis method for multimodal new imaging. And all the analysis approaches that have been taken. They are difficult to categorize, so it's it's a wild zoo. And most of these modules are based on very simple algebra. In unimodal unsupervised analysis you basically have the same model as Stephen was talking about in these ICA methods. Then there are biologically inspired models where you just make up a well biophysically plausible model that generates your data and you estimate these parameters. I mean I hope as I hope I can convince you later. They usually fit some data to some label Y and. For instance, many people so examples for this model are, well, general linear models like you have in SPM. Linear discriminant analysis, like people use for e.g. So for these supervised analysis, well, first there is always a certain arbitrariness with respect to what you choose to be the data, what you choose to be the label. Often you don't even have a target variable, so you can always choose either modality but. Not only that related to neural activity, which might lead you astray. We have one mapping for each modality and we also have modality specific neural sources. It's that line that maximizes the variance after projecting the data onto it. That's what we will always do in this notation throughout the talk, and then PCA finds a line in this space such that when you project the data onto it, the variance is maximized. Is just an eigenvector of this matrix here. So we see that the line that describes the data best is the strongest eigenvector of the covariance. So now we can remove single directions without affecting the others if the data is really just determined by the 1st two statistical moments. So yeah, the options, neural activity neural activation is reflected in electromagnetic field changes or in human activity and these modalities they are complementary. So what you do instead is you make use of the assumption that your solution can be expressed as a linear expansion of data points. To describe your solution, that's the kernel trick. Essentially, here is just the linear kernel trick, so we just plug in this for W and then we end up with this. What's the difference between doing standard PCA or linear kernel PCA? You can use it for. This is the model of unimodal unsupervised analysis. So the point is that you estimate a model for each modality separately and this comes with some. So you might end up with one component that is only present in one modality and then you don't know how that relates to the other modality. It makes sense to look at well, so this is again an example of unimodal. Such that the common activity is extracted. Probably reflecting the hidden variable. Why is neural activity reflected in electromagnetic field changes? To animals something more positive. Of the neuron, So what happens outside what you can measure is that, well, the opposite, right? If that happens in a synchronized fashion, then these electromagnetic field changes outside of the cell will become strong enough that you can measure them with extracellular electrodes. We are looking for brain activity and we measure electrophysiological signals, and if my signals. So the first Canonical direction is just AF dimensional vector in the EG space and then S dimensional vector in the fMRI space such that the correlation between the data when you project them onto their respective Canonical subspace is maximized. We project the Y data onto the. If the sources are uncorrelated, which they are for PCA, they are for CCA and for ICA two and they are trivially trivially uncorrelated. It's computed like this, so the mutual information between two variables is high if they share information, it's low if they are independent. Then, so this is basically what all methods most methods in your imaging do they assume that your data is only described can be described by first and 2nd order moments exhaustively. Reactivation is reflected in electromagnetic field changes, and you can measure that using intra cranial electrodes. You can also resort to electrocardiograms or electroencephalography or magnetic encephalo graphy. Another trick that not many people are aware of is that you can do CCA for more than two modalities. This idea was investigated by Kettering in this biometric paper. He explored many methods of combining this or extending CCA, but the one that is easiest to implement is just when you want to maximize the sum of all pairwise correlations. So you see, it's again just a generalized eigenvalue problem and it looks very much like the one that we had for two variables only. That compares unimodal and multimodal unsupervised analysis as we talked about it before so. If you compute PCA on this one and PCA on this one. One solution for each of the modalities and the first PCA component for X and also for Y will be the one that maximizes the variance within that modality only. Now, standard CCA requires computation of covariance matrices. That's the kind of notation you find in kernel papers often don't get scared by this, so it's really just satisfy of X is a kernel function that Maps your data from your F dimensional space or from your input dimensional input dimension to a potentially infinite dimensional kernel space. So this K matrix is again just number of samples by number of samples and you just optimize the Canonical correlation in that space. So, but still kernel CCA also has some problems. It assumes instantaneous dependencies, so you need to have each sample correlated with the other sample from the other modality instantaneously. So the standard model of neuro vascular coupling is to use this hemodynamic response function. Are the same for all voxels, and this implies that the temporal mics are separable from the spatial dynamics. So what we did to account for this temporal for these temporal dynamics is we just extended standard kernel CCA to optimize. So here what neurovascular coupling. In fact, we just look at, well, a more macroscopic level of this coupling. So now if you compute the band power, this is a nonlinear function. Yeah, so computing the newer band power isn't is a nonlinear function, and the EG model is linear as I mentioned, so computing the band power in sensor space is not good because you measure the band power of a superposition of many sources, including noise sources, and that will decrease your signal to noise ratio if you try to invert this non linearity. It can be measured with intrinsic optical imaging, near infrared spectroscopy or functional magnetic resonance imaging near intrinsic intrinsic optical imaging is just when you cut open the brain, you shine light directly on the surface and then you record with the camera. So first is hybrid Bcis. Then we use the PCA using PCA based approach to clean multimodal, do clean artifacts in multimodal recordings. We know that easy and nearest carry complementary information. So what he did is he trained a linear discriminant analysis classifier on each modality. We will talk about this more so here is an example of blood oxygen level dependent signal. We have fMRI recordings in these slices in primary visual cortex of the macaque monkey. It's really just a scanner gradient that you see and the clean version now well looks more like the visual stimulus which I uploaded here in red. So to sum up, this part, multimodal recordings suffer from artifacts, and some of them are very complicated to get rid of. Hemodynamic response function that implies that coupling is separable in space and time. So what you see here is primary visual cortex. If a neural impulse arrives in layer 4. The blood response might look very different in the superficial layers compared to the lower layers.