So for this blue and blind source separation problem that I just mentioned, what is happening? You can perform some clustering, identify well all the active sources. So it is well known that, well, it's a well known result from Algebra 1, one that if you have fewer equations than unknowns there, you cannot see that there's an infinite number of solutions to your linear system. Provide the same observation if they are sufficiently sparse, then they must be equal, so there's a under the sparsity assumption. It's not only the single processing vocabulary, but some connection with machine learning. It is so both are related through linear system, that is that we considered as known and this linear system, so it can be the dictionary that used to model to relate your vector and which is false representation can be the mixing matrix that relates the observed mixtures with the unknown sources can also be what is called the sensing system in compressed sensing. Where I mean each of space corresponds to a set of K. Non zero entries. And so, and again, when when you go to the projected lower dimensional subspace space M there still potentially a combinatorial number of spaces and our problem of ideal sparse approximation consists in having a vector B. And finding the best approximation to this vector be from this Union of low dimensional subspaces. Keep the K largest and you're done. So the greedy algorithms and here and describing matching pursuits they will work with more general. They find the largest one. If you simply take one second of CD quality stereo audio, it's already more than one. On the other side, you have the family of greedy algorithms, so they are not based on the global optimization principle. The tradeoff between sparsity an approximation is tuned differently tuned by the stopping criterion for your algorithm. Now all these algorithms have several valiance, so regarding global optimization, the violence on in particular determined by what is the choice of the sparsity measure, but also, since these are only. So what we can do is look at from how the level sets of the L0 norm. Your object, but you don't know the whole free transform is just like the inpainting problem that I showed before. So the technique is to be a bit more general, and here the fact that this object is regular away from irregular boundaries implies that when you do that, if you were to do the wavelet transform of the subject. Why would? So here it's really a toy model an for this time model. What you will serve as a product of this linear undersampling for you under sampling? The circle padding of compressed sensing and this is schematic comparison with classical signals that as a classical sampling in classical Shannon sampling, what could say first you sample high resolution and then you think how you can reduce the volume and compress. The the way compressed sensing proposes to perform acquisition is different well from the beginning, you know, yeah, you have to know that the data you want to acquire is sparse in some domain that you can that you know. Small significance, so mathematically this means that the data that can, or the signals and images that can be considered as high dimensional vectors. It's the same for images for images such as the one I showed, they would be expressed as good as they would be well approximated as a linear combination of few wavelets. OK, for this paradigm for this compressed sensing to work, there are a few necessary hypothesis. You also have to have certain properties of your projection matrix so that the recovery is actually guaranteed for not trivial response vectors, but moderately sparse vectors, and this generally comes from uncertainty principle between the domain where the data is sparse and the domain where it is measured, such as Heisenberg uncertainty principle between time and frequency. So the goal was to show you first the notion of sparsity. When an object is sparse, it enables a number of. But if you look at the vector of the sparse vector on the right hand side, there are only there's a much smaller number of nonzero entries. This is roughly speaking this this log which can be well approximated as. Explain briefly what is source separation? The disturbing disturbing sources well.