So we all know that there is that there are students and teachers. Different formats like text, video, audio and and others. But before we go that path we also need to preprocess this data and collect this data and for that we we did the preprocessing pipeline that handles multi model in cross lingual data and for here I'm going to focus on educational material but it can be also used on other domains and another. And the other thing is, because the Wikipedia concepts were extracted from the material content, it doesn't like it doesn't. We presented to be developed a methodology for preprocessing multi model and cross lingual items and in the future what we want to do is improve the textual extraction methods and also handle missing material attributes so automatically so that it would automatically handle this kind of stuff and also add new features which would then help into the textual analysis for the learning materials, in this case to determine the quality and also the topic of the material. So this is how the preprocessing pipeline looks like. So for this open educational resources, we targeted four repositories from which we use dedicated APIs and custom crawlers so that we could gather as much data as we could. What are the material attributes that are required. We also have some setting for checking missing material attributes so at the end of the pipeline we check if all of these materials are price or all of these attributes of the material are present and then we store in the data. We extract the content from the material in a textual form white actual form because we have other, because text is quite easy to analyze, its we have still. How to analyze the text? It links the material texture components to the corresponding Wikipedia page. And for this we use Wiki, wiki fire Services Service, which finds Wikipedia concepts that are related to textual input. We acquired in process approximately 90,000 items and in which we found that this repository is cover about 103 languages and this graph shows the languages that have at least 100 materials. We also have, like we did the statistics for the file type, so we saw that there are in different formats that the most dominant one is the text which is we can see in PDF, PowerPoint and word documents, but follow then it's followed by videos.