Alan Turing he had a very broad interest in science. So to say, classical mathematics number theory in particular. And so it can be used for approximating the number of primes below given limit. He said, let us try to find some TO. And so at any given point, this should be an integer. Each of the pages of similar capacity. Or like Charisma cruitin for pages for table of logarithms? 2 pages for routine for calculating such terms. 12 pages for Info 13. Unfortunately, although the details were all worked out on this line. 1600 feet what instigated unchecked. But unfortunately at this point the machine broke down. Furthermore, this interval was subsequently found to have been run with their own error value. Is the zeros lie on the critical line up to T equal to 1540 Tishman Scriven instigated so as far as 1468. The paper was titled System of Logic based on Ordinals. Athyrium by number theoretical theory and visual ministerium of the form. Theater affects benefits for infinitely many natural numbers X. There is no general accepted meaning for this term number theoretical theorem. But it should be noted that we are using it in another restricted sense. There exists a natural number Y such that F of X vanish is where F of X&Y is primitive recursive. Can be stated as follows way in this hierarchy. In 1914 that for infinitely many X by affairs is greater than integral logarithm of X. It converges in semi plane. And defines analytical function which can be extended to the whole plane. That in fact all non real zeros lie in the middle of this critical strip on so-called critical line. And actually. Written Turing's paper on this subject which was one of his last. Von models. At work he accomplished with the limited computational resources of the day. Think about the Riemann hypothesis. Whether all the zeros of the function in this range of T lie on the critical line. Only one other method besides the older McLaren and three month legal ones seem to have been proposed for computing that offers the moderate accuracy at large heads. Name is Ivan due to touring. In the women's eagle formula that were able available at that time. Then the other McLaren formula, however very good estimates for the remainder terms in the agreement legal formula are now available, which seemed to make during this method, unless unnecessary. In June 1950, the Manchester University Mark, one electronic computer, was used to do some calculations concerned with the distribution of the rules of the Riemann Zeta function. Both intended in fact to determine. Visit there are any zeros not on the critical line. The calculations were done in optimistic hope, that is the role would be found of the critical line. Then one could be sure that there were no zeros of the critical line in the interval in question. Even with the atomic computer, this rig can be rather tiresome to achieve. But in connection with such a subject is the analytical theory of numbers. Then it would just be sufficient to round this value to the nearest integer and we would know the exact number of zeros in this rectangular. The argument of here range of along the critical line. This argument goes along the critical line and we. The classical method known before Turing was as follows. If we succeeded, then we would know for sure that all zeros do lie on the critical line. Then try to find small numbers, age minus one and so on. Go on such that these sums goes in increasing order and verify that the change of science at this point. You know that all zeros on the critical line. And Thursday simplify situation a bit. And the 00 will never be detected because on both sides of its function will have the same sign. And we can write that the number of points inside the rectangular area.