Problem of planning into a problem of likelihood maximization, which means that now we can use an EM algorithm to actually compute an optimal policy, and the core part of the TM is obviously in the step. Which is you can use in simple cases just exact inference like forward, backward kind of algorithms. So the question is, can we take this idea that I've just presented and use similar ideas also for generating motion and and planning in robotics? They said that the actual problem of robotic, like the real problem of robotics is the integration. We believe propagation with Gaussian belief states, so again discussing belief states where approximation because actually the dependencies are partly nonlinear. So this is some work that I've done together with Honda and it's going to repeat in a second. So I've been talking about planning in market decision process in the introduction, and I've been talking about generating motion and robotic control in this main part in later part and at the point is that. I like this view that all of them can be can be seen as a problem of inference, inferring posteriors of emotions, or over actions and. So the idea is that you can understand the problem of motion control and planning as a problem of inferring the posterior of unknown variables conditioned on available information. Which is some previous work for mine developing this theory of using probabilistic inference for solving Markov decision process. Specifically in robotics. Is this work by Attias who in his title actually also says, you know, planning by probabilistic inference, and he proposed a method using probabilistic inference techniques for solving Markov decision processes, but it turns out that it's not really generating optimal policies. Now the problem by definition, like in reinforcement learning, is find a parameter that is final policy which maximizes this expected future return. And it turns out that we can show that the maximizing the likelihood in this mixture of final plat MDP is exactly. Maximizing this is equivalent to maximizing the expected future return in an original Markov decision process.