The title of my talk today is learning with a non exhaustive training data set and we will be covering a case study which is the direction of bacteria cultures using optical optical scattering technology and these are the authors. Now, as an illustrative example, here we have 10 classes. Now the motivation for this work is mostly due to the recent food outbreaks for people living in United States in Canada. One of them was contamination of spinach and ground beef. Obviously, this techniques cannot be used for detection of unknown pathogens becausw to develop an antibody, you need to know you need to have a sample of the bacteria. It stands for bacteria rapid detection using optical scattering technology, and it uses a laser. Then we collect scattering the light that is scattered through the colonies and analyze the scattering to come up with fingerprints that we call. Extracting several features involving moment invariants and haralick text. In real time to classify new bacteria cultures. So when we deploy the barrel system in real time in on food chains which are trying to identify and classify bacteria cultures, we need to have. There are hundreds of bacteria out there, hundreds of bacteria. Most of training libraries, the high mutation rate bacterias goes through mutation very often, and when they go through imitation and non pathogenic bacteria class may become a part of pathogenic bacteria class. So the easiest way, I mean, the traditional supervised classification algorithms. And the related work is actually I'm going to compare nonexhaustive learning with two lines of related work. Now nonexhaustive learning versus anomaly detection. The integral is abnormal or difficult to classify. So support vector domain description. Non exhaustive setting a new samples is accepted when it is distance to any of the class centers is smaller or equal than its radius. And then we are computing the likelihood of Z, which is the new sample coming from each of the classes. Usually in this framework a Gaussian distribution is assumed for the. The maximum likelihood decision function it's a well established technique for classifying samples. OK, so the decision function for determining whether this is a member of one of the known classes or an unknown class can be expressed in terms of the Omega sub J. Omega Subject is the class that is maximizing the likelihood. If some of the classes are missing, then we call this a non exhaustive list of classes and a non exhaustive training data set. So obviously when the list of classes is not exhaustive, we have an eel defined problem. Common for all classes known and unknown. We are also defining a prior and since the covariance matrix is already since the covariance matrix is already known. Vectors and the parameters of the mean vector or the parameters of the prior is estimated using the sample means. So remember, we have a large number of classes in our training data, so it is not like a traditional learning problem where you have one class problem, two class problem, three class problem we are considering. Then we are presenting an algorithm for training and the algorithm for training. It summarizes, but I already discussed so for each class in the training data set, we are estimating the common covariance and the mean vectors. Using the sample means that we are generating am samples. And the algorithm for detection is. The Z or the new sample belongs to one of the known classes, so this page. When we plot the Roc curves as you see the Fisher senior.