[0.0s - 29.0s]
The business in Lithuania and.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I'm working in the Corners University of Technology, business Computing, Collaboratory, and I. I work personally 11 years, but this laborati has about 20 years of experience working with a small medium and their prices in various. Information technology projects and. Alberta Close the collaborates with. Lithuanian business enterprises and associations and. Here's a lot of collaboration agreements with. And we are analyzing businessmen's needs. We are solving problems and implementing latent latest technologies and I will.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Stalker

[87.0s - 116.0s]
More about business environmental, Lithuania Business, ICT business support and I will present one case of mature enterprise I think are ready for enterprise, interoperable or proper ability and collaboration services implementation. So I think my presentation presentation will be short and.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Clear. About business environment in Lithuania. Country not a book about population. More than 3 million and mainly business in enter in Lithuania is small medium enterprises. Main business areas. This is number in percent of quantity of enterprises are, as you see, part 50% is wholesale retail, trade and services and second few largest are manifacturing. Transport, construction and we call Zhenya more about about transit country becausw. In the East, we have former Soviet Union, which has a lot of raw materials and invest. We have European Union which has products and services. So we transfer between them. So we have good. Transportation in this infrastructure, logistics centers and we have some manufacturing for. Producing some products as we if you talk about Internet infrastructure in Lithuania, this is map or there's. You can see that. All Lithuania theater is evenly spread Internet access business and we don't have such centers like Latvia, Estonia with one big City, Riga Italian and all business is in one place. We have spread and. Very good infrastructure and then.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
There's a little bit of business enterprise statistics and their first table is Lithuania enterprise number by size, and if you can see micro and small business by quantity is about 95%. So a lot of business is made. Business is small. And then. But

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Buy if you if we. Look at the export and import or gross value. Added. Small medium enterprises are only doing about more than 60%. This is becausw that we have some huge enterprises like Magic Coil which produces petrol and other products from Russian oil and they are doing about 20 or more percent of import export and. Gross value.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Some information about. I sit here. This is our laboratory view experience too. Two history of ICT in Lithuania and. I am. Blue line indicates when the technology is appeared and red line indicates when it is spread evenly spread to public and are used so. One point I want to make there from our laboratory review that if we want to. Use modern services in. Maybe a few years later in 2015, 2020. So we need to start disseminating them five or seven years before the cause of. Of. Body also problems and one of the problems is I think education of young businessmen and. And competence and universities. Our University is doing a very.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Trying to disseminate new technologies and we have a lot of relationship with the other universities of. Lithuania and we are trying to use these other universities relationship to mainly to access to maybe other countries and other problem is too. Decava business support.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Business support and their map of various public service providers. There also evenly spread across the whole country and we need to disseminate new modern services standards. That they would. Take. Would the. Disseminate them to businessmen.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Further, I.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Want to talk about one hour? Partner this is joint Stock Company where Logitech it was founded as a. Turn on producers to announce the railway. Parts big parts ban train crosses. So. It was founded in 1995 and since then we are. Our laboratory. Doing a fuel. Projects like cost, accounting like material resource planning and This is why.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
It is why it's needed. This enterprise producing this huge. Products and each of these have. Couple of hundreds different parts. They cost about 50 of 60,000 euro and they. I need about more than hundred of whom whom an hour to produce. So if they need to be real. Flexibel they need to plan very full for the two to. The future and they need. To know when. What parts are needed when they will arrive when? Run work forces. It will be free and if they. Want to? They have a new order and they want to? Make to the plan where they can put in this in his their work plan. They need a real good, flexible planning system. And they have.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Lot of business relationship with suppliers customers. This is only a few of them, but they're not. Only buying and selling these products not not only buying raw material like steel like would like some. Springs bolts, but often they. Manufacture some parts, they send them to other suppliers, service suppliers, for example to drill some holes to do some modification and they carry them back and. Producing further their product so their main challenges.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Of this company is. They have a huge size of products. They have a long time span of manufacturing so weeks sometime one see if delayed and they were independent of material resource planning, have various relationships with partners so. Good collaboration and into interoperability services would be very useful for them to be more flexible. And this. These services are very very would be very useful when participating in huge international projects like Rail Baltica and this map not very good, but it shows that now is Railway Railway. Project from Germany connecting to. Estonia from Poland, Lithuania, Latvia. It's very huge. For all project. And. I want. I don't want to talk about.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
The expected the benefits. It's only initial and basic ideas. What would be helpful for them, but I don't know bout this and I think when we will know a better coin we will. Be more specific on on on this on this console. And.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
I want to resume and resume that Lithuania Enterprise are sufficiently equipped with computer equipment and relevant software now and Lithuania's completely covered with Internet service providers. See even the the smaller regions because our national was Project Train, which. Trace the cables to smaller regions so we have a good bandwidth. We have good access for Internet and. Economic entities technical ready to implement various modern. Collaboration terribly technology and Lithuanian business plans are in the way of gaining competence and preparing disco logically and we as universities try to help them too. To do their best. So thank you. This is why I lost my short presentation. Thank you so much. Who's going to attend the kickoff meeting or drawn there? And my colleague Nerios and. Willing to answer will come later. Will you have the opportunity before the meeting to meet some people from this company? Just some ideas of scenarios or the people who are coming. No dyscontrol now will know this company because we are working over 15 years with this company and so we know their problems. So the scenario Model S could be very similar to collaborative production planning. Yes and house to react to unexpected events. In other supply chain, yes that is a deley yes one supplier and how to collaboratively find a solution to such production problems. How to find a new partner which will replace the faulty one and how to put in place the recovery plans for production planning. This is I think more or less yes what your scenario will be and I think that. Also, data interoperability will be. Relevant I mean. Request for quotation. Invoices. I think this this should be your focus. Basically, yeah, or am I wrong? Yes yes yes. So thank you. Alright, OK, this is quite simple and I think. Interesting. Is very interesting and very related to some. To some existing coyner pilots, but in a new environment in a new country so. Would be a very good this case. Thank you, thank you.
