For medicine healthcare, for example, he managed. The first thing to realize is that even though we often use these terms quite interchangeably, medicine, healthcare, drug development, these are actually quite distinct things and I'm just going to put three basic definitions just to have a feeling for this may be seen is the science and practice of establishing diagnosis, prognosis, treatment, of course, and prevention of disease. The diagnosis is made via so called retinal fundus images and in fact it is such images that are remotely assessed by the by the specialist. The specialist doesn't need to see the patient this person, they really just see the image which makes the task that the computer has and the medical specialist has quite quite comperable they both see just the just the image and here you have different degrees of. Decision Tree is actually learning when the medical expert will change the therapy for the patient. The projection is not very sharp, but still these are the indications whether the specialist will change the therapy in terms of three different medications. So here what happens is that we take data on compound screenings which have been performed with some relatively small compound libraries to collect data and small here means. This is several hundreds, maybe seven 700, let's say, and so they apply the applied these these compounds to the the chemical to the cellular assays. And this is how we get candidates for new. And to build this these models, we typically use some of the properties of the chemical compound. So we look at whether it has different functional groups, like whether it has rings or whether it has the alcohol functional group or metal functional group, and these are then descriptors used to describe the compounds. Here they use the chemical library of maybe 1300 compounds, library of pharmacologically active compounds and they used these two different cell lines. In the health care system, I will talk very little about health care. For example, we say OK if this compound targets a particular protein. This is the name of the protein. The density of the bacteria and something which is also important is the effect on the host cell because you can kill all of the bacteria. On that cellular assay, and whether or not the sound works is assessed by taking a photograph of the cellular assay under the microscope. Considering the use of AI in Medicine an the Pharmaceutical industry, there are many different tasks for use of AI in pharma, medicine and healthcare. Also, in drug discovery and development, where I have been working myself more more recently, so drug discovery is the process by which new candidate medications are discovered, and in this age of automation actually quite some aspects of drug discovery have been have been automated, so even even before the rise of the artificial intelligence hype there was. Now this is also in the context of drug repositioning and repurposing. A drug with the active substance sildenafil, which was originally used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension, is now used for other purposes and you will know which purposes. We talked a lot about machine learning actually quite a large part today, but there is also computer vision. There is knowledge engineering and knowledge representation. Now two such recent examples are actually in the diagnosis of Melanoma skin skin cancer. OK, so this deep neural network architecture, which is shown here, this has been developed on the famous collection of images which is called image net. On top of these general training, the network has under gone. And here you have part of the taxonomy. Now this is the fastest growing cause of blindness because a significant proportion of the population is diabetic and in fact the diabetics should be undergoing regular checkups once a year to see whether there is the generation problems.