This exploitation factors clearly increase for both groups of animals. And there is a decrease and then increase further during 2nd learning block and there is no such thing for learning rates for example, which would be maybe expecting some algorithmic terms. To show that animals in fact behave like what theory would suggest should be optimal. And also in a nice thing if we look at the results for the Water maze experiment, we have the same qualitative result. The parameters well, and now if you want to look finally the effects of stress with stress is not so simple, but we see also in both experiments that those expedition factors better are elevated upon exposure to stress for the normal mice for season seven, but there is not significant no significant increase for the anxious mice. So thanks a lot, that's joint work with Jeremy Kinessa. And one of the usual ways to model such kind of conditioning and many other experiments is using simple temporal difference reinforcement learning models with discrete States and actions. And then, of course, such TTL models are capable of predicting many qualitative aspects of animal behavior, suggests animals learn based on rewards, or the extinguished learning if rewards are not present anymore. For example, what if some animals are more hungry than others? Or what if some animals are exposed? And then so let's look at the outline of our approach. So basically we used to derail models to model animal behavior in two different tasks. And of course, our goal is to find ways how we can control meta parameter values in order to have the best fit between these two things. OK, so once we have this experiment then we have to find a way how to evaluate the performance for both the animals and the model. And then once we have this, we can actually calculate the same things for the model as well As for the real animal, and then using a variation of stochastic gradient descent algorithm we can estimate the meta parameter sets Alpha, beta, gamma for each session and each animal in a way that minimizes the following Chi Square chi squared goodness fit. OK, and now we estimated those meta parameters and what is next. So first is it should be good to check generalization whether our estimation generalizes well. Then it's also to see the stability and reliability of those math parameters. And then we can ask questions like how do meta parameters change with time or what are the differences between diff.