Science are strong University of Science and Technology. Data quality is defined as fitness for use in special application context which is defined in 1997 and most literatures agree with it. What is application context and how do we measure fitness for use? And for the vocabulary finding steps we found it contains 2 steps. One is domain selection, the other is property constraint selection and both steps are time consuming. And since the recovery funding step relates to the design of each database and it is target, we want to investigate so. The pattern provides the basis of tool support for constructing spark your. And the whole evaluation process is as follows. This is human process. For a problem question like give me all female Russian astronauts, you may select the questioning and target KB Jago. The evaluation tool can show the subclass and superclass over domain as we as we see from the figure when you use this astronaut and we can auto fill it. And we also found that when we set the timing of the question as astronaut, we found its subclasses and another subclass Russian. We can set the property constraint. And. As to the property constraint, the property we want to set the female. Yes, the female astronaut, but the property should be has gender in Jago and part of value should be failure of female has gender female and we use two tools to help help evaluators to import all these things that tourists including Patty to get. After setting the domain and property constraint, we can. Yeah go click a huge number of contains a huge number of classes. And for property constraints when when considering this, it takes longer on DVD and then Jago since Yahoo has many many properties. And we also found that even with the help of our tool, it is not easy to construct a query for any questioning. It's me of type words. For example, present presidents can be presidents of countries or presidents of organisations. The quality model in ISO distinguish three quality approaches. Internal quality external quality and quality in use, the concept quality in use is borrowed from software engineering society. There are the two click properties as mentioned before the. And the younger it really does not contain enough properties. And in summary, neither results in DB Pedia yauger satisfactory. And lessons learned from our assessment work if datasets I intend to be used by human or instead about by computers. I wish I May is that somebody who will use it instead of some machine machine algorithms and we found we should use naming conventions for classes, objects and properties similar to that in software engineering or welfare. And there should be a tradeoff between the number of classes and the number of properties. And as we know for datasets, the most common usage scenario in datasets is query and check the answer. So we talk about two things, credibility and inform activity query ability measures, how easily an end user can construct a correct query on a data set. And continues up based on context of use. Context of use refers as usage context of usage scenario. And context abuse, I think it implies user requirements. So we design an experiment to investigate manual process. The experiment include five persons familiar with specular 10 questions and two datasets and evaluates evaluators right processes descriptions in text. The process are as follows, analyze each question and find the patterns of the question.