[0.0s - 29.0s]
My topic is from credibility to inform activity, assessing collecting use of DPD and Jago. I'm ranked on from this channel. Science are strong University of Science and Technology. And.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So what is data quality? Data quality is defined as fitness for use in special application context which is defined in 1997 and most literatures agree with it. But what is fit fitness for use? What is application context and how do we measure fitness for use? Do you have any metrics for that?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And for the metrics on linked open data, Zebra have surveyed 69 metrics and categorized them into 4 dimensions. But they do not matter the quality from the user's usability point of view.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And so we borrow some concepts from software engineering. The quality model in ISO distinguish three quality approaches. Internal quality external quality and quality in use, the concept quality in use is borrowed from software engineering society.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And so we proposed proposed our data collect model in the same way we divide the quality of linked open data into three factors. And we further map the quality dimension of linked open data of several into internal external and we design our own metrics of quality in yours.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And as we know for datasets, the most common usage scenario in datasets is query and check the answer. So we talk about two things, credibility and inform activity query ability measures, how easily an end user can construct a correct query on a data set. And informative, it shows how informative a data set is under a particular usage context.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And continues up based on context of use. Context of use refers as usage context of usage scenario. And context abuse, I think it implies user requirements. And here in this paper we use question sets to represent user requirements and another concept borrowed from software engineering. It is similar to use case in software engineering we use. Questioning sets.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And the second metric.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Design and before we design metrics, we learn how to query on datasets by measuring measuring query that I said. So we design an experiment to investigate manual process. The experiment include five persons familiar with specular 10 questions and two datasets and evaluates evaluators right processes descriptions in text. The text including steps, time spending each step. Queries and others. I.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
We find each evaluator have the same processes. The process are as follows, analyze each question and find the patterns of the question. Find suitable vocabularies which we find. The task is very time consuming and construct the query and repeat step 123 since there may be run patterns of vocabularies.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And for the vocabulary finding steps we found it contains 2 steps. One is domain selection, the other is property constraint selection and both steps are time consuming. We found for manually constructing it costs 15 minutes on average. And since the recovery funding step relates to the design of each database and it is target, we want to investigate so.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Based on this experiments, we design our metrics for the query ability metrics with design. Two kinds of metrics, subjective metrics, the rating, difficult rating, and object metrics including construct time, construct time on domain on property, and the number of attempts.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And therefore inform informatively metrics. The same thing happens there. There are subject, metric scored informativeness rating and the object metrics. Precision, recall and CI.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And for the experiment design.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
We use two knowledgebases DB pedia. 214 and younger to S.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And for the quest rings. We select from two sources, QRD and Webquest. Rings for each quest ring set with select certain questions. The beginning of the questioning set and the end of the crushing set, just like render random selection. I.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And we classify questions into a different patterns. The pattern provides the basis of tool support for constructing spark your. Since we do not want our evaluators to spend time on spark your it 'cause it costs and it needs technicals, we weren't ordinary users could evaluate the data set. So we we classify questions into different patterns. And we use tools to support this particular process.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And the whole evaluation process is as follows. Select questioning, select baby, select domain set property constraint. This is human process. Then the machine general query event results and the human may set difficulties and there may be other background tasks of the computer to record the processes.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And with designer truth to support the evaluation process, for example. For a problem question like give me all female Russian astronauts, you may select the questioning and target KB Jago. I.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And we can set the domain. The evaluation tool can show the subclass and superclass over domain as we as we see from the figure when you use this astronaut and we can auto fill it. This is a function of the tour but and as well you can find the superclass and subclass of the the class word netword astronaut astronomer. And we also found that when we set the timing of the question as astronaut, we found its subclasses and another subclass Russian. Russian astronauts is closer to the question. We may use this and we also may use this. And we.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
We can set the property constraint. And. As to the property constraint, the property we want to set the female. Yes, the female astronaut, but the property should be has gender in Jago and part of value should be failure of female has gender female and we use two tools to help help evaluators to import all these things that tourists including Patty to get. The properties contain the correct ring. And DPS part is to a note the instance.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And. After setting the domain and property constraint, we can. Tor can generate the query based on the property template based on the template and the vocabulary imports.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And the last the evaluation results.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
We found that it costs evaluate more time on Jago then on TV period to find a satisfactory query. And we dig into the detail.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
There and. Since that time could be partitioned into query construct among domain unknown property constraint, we find that they spend more time on more time on YA go then on DPM for query construct construction on domain and the reason is clear. Yeah go click a huge number of contains a huge number of classes. And the class name is is very very long and it's difficult for ordinary person to interpret these names.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And for property constraints when when considering this, it takes longer on DVD and then Jago since Yahoo has many many properties. It's not the problem. The major major problem is that it has duplicate properties. For example the data, birth, birth date, birth, birth date and birth date, birth array and many. Many evaluators feel confused. For all of this.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And we also found that even with the help of our tool, it is not easy to construct a query for any questioning. No question is rated as very easy and most questions are above average. Some are rated as very difficult.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And for the informative ITI we also found DB Pedia has a rather low precision. The course may be the. It's me of type words. For example, present presidents can be presidents of countries or presidents of organisations. The data set does not distinguish.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Got them and Jago there. The class name may be misleading tour for example. The class we categoric, German actors, means actors whose nationality not birthdate both both places German and we cannot. We cannot interpret the meaning only by its name.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
And also DB pedia and yagor both have low records. DB pedia the. There are the two click properties as mentioned before the. And the younger it really does not contain enough properties. The low recall due to the. That Jago does not contain enough properties within a fax.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
And in summary, neither results in DB Pedia yauger satisfactory. And it is not it is. It is not my expectation and we found the Argo is slightly better than TPN since younger is smaller and we found at last August right better.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And lessons learned from our assessment work if datasets I intend to be used by human or instead about by computers. I wish I May is that somebody who will use it instead of some machine machine algorithms and we found we should use naming conventions for classes, objects and properties similar to that in software engineering or welfare. Confused the second duplicate properties names should be avoided since they were. They were misled the users. And there should be a tradeoff between the number of classes and the number of properties.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And the last big questions I would like to discuss with the audience. Thank you very much.
