With that we call labels or baby. With another interpretation, we can say that we have instances annotated with a subset of a fixed set of labels. Basically, that one is how to exploit label structure to improve their predicted performance. And of course, how to scale up to a large label dimensions that exist in common applications. The most important one is automated or semi automated annotations of large databases of different types of objects. But there are also more specialized applications like tax suggestion, quicker categorization, drug discovery and so. So we have the dimensional input space and we have a set of Q labels that we will denote Langer 12, Lambda cube. So in classification we have for example, a set of labels like this one. We want to train a model that outputs the partition of this space of labels into a positive and the negative set relevant labels to the object and irrelevant labels without. So what we ultimately want to produce these probabilities of relevance for the new object to this one of the labels. We can go to a ranking. Matlab Lliving requires slightly different evaluation measures, so we could organize them. So we calculate its measure for example and update these measures. Label based the measures are calculated separately for its label. I will save more than in the next slides and according to the output of the model, we can categorize measure measures to those working on the partitions on ranking sonar probabilities. So I don't want to spend a lot of time here, but just to give you an impression of the measures, so just a couple of additional notations notations, so the P is the set of the predicted labels, for instance XI and why I set of actual labels. And they penalize hard this kind of predictions. And perhaps one most commonly used is the ranking loss. For each pair of labels Landley and Lundeby. Where land lay is a relevant label in London Visa Irrelevant label for, for example, it counts how many times at Spurs have the wrong ranking, so Despite that. And of course the same calls for a stressful independent evaluation like area under a rock or PR curve which need also to sort the objects. So now we're continue with some very basic approaches, and it is this kind of approaches that have been used in a data stream setting, so This is why I will mention. So what we do is learn one binary classifier for its label. OK, so for example, if we have this data set with four examples and four labels. The problem is that this number of different classes can become very large, so it is upper bounded by the number of. Examples or the number of possible combinations, so M or two to the power of Q. Myra Speaker Pool is a professor of information systems in the Faculty of Computer Science and not a fun character. I'm a lecturer in the Department of Formatics at the original investor seller Nikki and member of the Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery Group, and my main interests are assembled learning and multilabel learn. It has another problem that also is relevant to the streaming setting that it cannot predict answered label set, so it learns to predict only those labels that has it has seen in the training set. The best attribute in order to do the split is based on the notion of reduction of variance, and so you can. So another very interesting thing also that interests asking streaming scenarios is that there is no fixed set of categories, so users may add new category. Where, for example, a person may be suffering from one or more diseases, and these changes as time changes. But we also inherit the Italians of string learning, so we also do must do incremental learning under constraints in time and memory. 1 issue. Is how do we construct synthetic multi label data? Now as far as a concept is concern in single label data in classification data we can say for example that the class priors might change overtime. There is a cut here to so that does all this do all these prior change at the same time? So what I would say, then we'll ask the question, why not use a real world data? And that's all there is, because there aren't any available. The 1st place and also multi label String Theta is even harder so this may require access to operational systems and the tweaking. And of course, if you find real world data then what is concept drift in this data? OK, so some issues to consider here. You really do think that resume mic work at the database systems and data Manic group of Professors Hanspeter Cricket at the Ludwig Maximilians University in Munich. Hearing it is a postdoctoral researcher there, and also scholar for annual exam performed humbled foundation. So now we have one moving hyperplane per label, yes but OK. But this means that all labels drift simultaneously then so is this realistic? We expect to happening in real world model labeled data streams, some labels matrix, some others may not. This means that the average number of labels, for example, would be. Is that a very little and 2010? So we have a parameter said that controls the average number of labels bearing samples for example. In terms of dependencies. Consider that all labels are independent from each other, and we're talking about unconditional dependence and independence, so we're not looking at the input space as the labels. Values to introduce dependencies, so this OK simulates somehow the dependencies we see in real world data, and then they use the bicycle to fit to fill in the rest of the matrix. The main idea is that labels and combinations of labels and labels that they are affected by one or more of the features, that is the basic idea. And how do they do that? So as we say, as we saw in the label Powersets approach, they combine the different combinations are usually. First label is selected based on the prior probabilities and then more labels may be added may be added or not according to the matrix of the probability with the dependency probabilities. If it affects the this combination or a subset of this combination according to the mapping function, then we add the positive example or the value of the positive example or the value of the negative one. All labels will drift simultaneously and again. It doesn't output since the math class multilayer perceptron algorithm by cramming Seager so this one maintains one linear perceptron per label, and the weights get updated when the ranking that is output by the by the perceptrons is wrong. And then according to the magnet they according to how many labels are ranked higher. And it also further depends on the what the actual loss was. So typical losses here used. Some additional points that they interest. So for example, when a new label appears, we could just initialize the new person. Of course, there is no explicit causative handling, but however it could serve as a strong baseline in papers presenting multilabel data, stream algorithm and of course there are also some extensions that bring better performance, some pairwise approaches but to the expense of quadratic complexity with respect to the number of labels. So their motivation for this tutorial is that it's dual. So we have for example social networks that require the combination of activity recordings, which content recommendation made any sense that required user ratings, customer transactions, item descriptions and so. But again, such an approach assumes that if concept drift will happen, it will happen for all labels, because when you throw away a model you throw away the complete, more complete model affecting all labels not. So it combines the combines the tree of democracy and helping the carpeting. They also consider train training a model able learner at the leaves of this wedding tree, and in particular they argued for the Princess algorithm that I also showed you before. In cats, the problems of their laborers pouched the algorithm so it cannot predict unseen labels, and it has to wait and see some labels that in order to be able to predict them. In addition, read Attalla explored and sample techniques. Existing assembly techniques for singulated illustrates such that they add Edwin bagging approach, so it's basically an online bagging approach that replaces model based on accuracy. Based on the predicted partition, the size of the predicted partition, and what the actual one was. Then you are losing a lot of positive examples, so this is basically the main idea behind this this approach so it uses a KNN binary classifier on the Union of the positive and negative windows. And with every new example, it updates the positive and negative windows of its label that have a fixed size, and there's also space efficient implementation for setting examples between the positive and negative windows. So in the second a block I will discuss. So the first part I will just say some basic concepts from static static multi label data and then focus on streaming multi label data and some issues that arise there. So what it does is that every instance is it calculates the threshold that would most accurately approximate the observed frequency within that window of that label, and then this gets updated every N instances and quite good results have been noticed with this kind of online thresholding approach. We have discussed multilabel data. And we need their techniques that exploit the structure of labels and deal scale to the large number of labels. In Block 3, Iranian doctors will discuss high dimensional data. Any will talk on dynamic environments and data streams and how we deal with high dimensional data there. Myra will talk on my multi relational data, the kind of that we see in a social network and there we have for example persons entities like persons, resources, opinions and relations between these entities like persons upload, download, annotated content and so on, replied to other persons.