So that this is the overview of the of the whole framework. So that's a fingerprint set we use. And obviously these fingerprints need to be need to be predictable from them SMS data, so some some stuff probably cannot be predicted from SMS. And we first extract 3 classes of features. So if we have a peak at 7.493, so it doesn't belong to be to that feature 70 or 71, so it might actually be that it's it's Tepic 71. So we model each peak as a 2 dimensional Goshen. The probability product kernel from here. An an input data which are sets as distributions and then the kernel is a kernel between two distributions. The integral of the product of 2. The other distribution, as the model and the other distribution, sort of as the data. So how likely is it that PC? The first first spectrum, given that the second spectrum acts as the model. But it's still valid valid kernel, and there is a cold closed form solution for for Gaussian mixtures, so this is really fast evaluate. We can predict the fingerprint vectors. So next we need to find candidate metabolites that match this. Because our fingerprint predictions will necessarily have errors or most likely they will have errors. To measure how confident we are in a specific fingerprint. So basically it's just to be normal model where the success probabilities. How, how confident we are that that was the correct one. So this then gets a maximum value when we. And now we assigned for each metabolite a score based on its fingerprint vectors probability given this model. So we have three datasets from mass Bank, so Massbank is an open and free database of MSMS data. Sort of exotic. For the fingerprint prediction an we query candidate metabolites from either kick or pop Cam. Vitrite we treat mass spectrometry data as input data for our training model and we want to introduce a machine learning framework to predict. The prediction accuracies of individual finger pins, so here this is the Lt Q data set. So first fingerprint, second fingerprint and so on. So this now records with different datasets and different. Half of the spectrum vegan. So metric is a combinatorial method. It simulates the fragmentation, tries to find a candidate methodologies as a matching simulated spectrum. And here. So this is the first formal machine learning framework for medical identification. And as a future work, I think the structure prediction aspect should be explored. Thank you very much, thank Christians. This is the index of the fingerprint. So in in 2009 in in the American Society for Mass Spectrometry Conference, there was a questionnaire for the participants. So this is what the experimentalist people think that is the biggest bottleneck in metabolomics. So mad about that notification is basically the determination of what's inside the cell, so we want to know what metabolites are in the cell and what quantities, and this is obviously their requirement for any kind of. Analysis metabolomic analysis. We have all kinds of molecules here, and each molecule is Stan indicated as a peek here and the peak mask master charge value gives the. So this does not give us structural information on on the metabolite, so we can. So Luckily we have tandem mass spectrometry which does give give us structure information on metabolites. So here what is being done is in tandem MSR MSMS we can isolate. We can choose this. So basically now we have measurement technology which can give us structure and information on the unknown metal light. So we can think of this this MSMS spectrum as a sort of a unique pattern of the of the original meta block. That guys fragments. Also, if the if the measurement conditions differ too much then it affects the spectrum and the spectrum is different. They cost course quite a lot to use. Characterizing information to predict the structure of the metabolite. So basically what we have here is that we have an MSN spectrum as a collection of of peaks. Each peak gives the mass and intensity. A set of binary and independent structural properties of the unknown metabolite. Just use SVM to predict these these guys.