[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you so much for sending and this has been a joint work with we've been sharing and you are also from Helsinki and Nicolette. Somebody from ET hearts, Yuri.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So US outline our first start with the motivation of this methodology, identification problem and then introduced the kernel framework for this problem.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So first summary, so basically. Vitrite we treat mass spectrometry data as input data for our training model and we want to introduce a machine learning framework to predict. Metabolite identifications and we have a statistical model so that we can fit candidate metabolites from databases.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So in in 2009 in in the American Society for Mass Spectrometry Conference, there was a questionnaire for the participants. So this is what the experimentalist people think that is the biggest bottleneck in metabolomics. And their their their highest percentage. Was that notification metabolites so? This is basically what the experimental experiment tristich people think that what's the biggest bottleneck metabolomics? And the second one was assigning multiple significance to the results. Also in there. In their smaller packets, we have things like data processing, reduction, data acquisition, sample preparation, so all of these things that are related to their mass spectrometer measurement. Issues.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So mad about that notification is basically the determination of what's inside the cell, so we want to know what metabolites are in the cell and what quantities, and this is obviously their requirement for any kind of. Analysis metabolomic analysis. So the main measurement technology is mass spectrometry and mass spectrometry is quite nice. It it can measure the mass charge ratio of. Content of compounds in a sample so we can take a cell sample and we get this kind of spectrum which gives us the master charts ratios. Of all their compounds in the sample in theory. So here this cloud represents our cell. We have all kinds of molecules here, and each molecule is Stan indicated as a peek here and the peak mask master charge value gives the. Basically, the mass of the of the compound at the height of the peak is the concentration of that. Molecule. So this does not give us structural information on on the metabolite, so we can. We usually cannot be identified. Metabolites using this technology, we only get the masses. There can be several methods with the same mass, so we don't know the actual structure. Also, there is a measurement error here that the big positions are not not completely accurate. That that there is usually mass range. For the for the actual. Actual mass. And there is a nice nice paper by Kingdom Feen which basically says that you cannot annotate a metabolite based on its mass flow, even if you have super high accuracy.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So Luckily we have tandem mass spectrometry which does give give us structure information on metabolites. So here what is being done is in tandem MSR MSMS we can isolate. A single iron band from the first Mass Effect mass spectrum. We can choose this. The compounds behind this peak based on mass. So here then this this this molecule is fragmented by, for example, colliding into a stable gas. And what we get is substructures of this guy. So here we have a cloud of substructures of discount. For example here we have the ring parts. Here we have their side chains and so on. And what's measured is the masses of these fragments. So basically now we have measurement technology which can give us structure and information on the unknown metal light. So we can think of this this MSMS spectrum as a sort of a unique pattern of the of the original meta block. This is unknown, so we want to know what this guy and what we get is a list of masses of. That guys fragments. And we also know the mass of this guy. So because we chose it from here. So that's our data in this problem.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So currently what people use? Do identify methods from SMS. Data is predominantly reference databases so people have constructed these databases where they have a reference measurement of some. Metabolite and basically then you just qualities databases and see if your observed spectrum matches any of those in the databases. And the problem is here, of course some. Some methods have not been recorded in these databases. For example, in Plant Kingdom we have several hundreds of thousands of metabolites which have not been in general recorded here. Also, if the if the measurement conditions differ too much then it affects the spectrum and the spectrum is different. And finally, these databases are usually. They cost course quite a lot to use. So another method is the simulation based methods where we combinatorial try to simulate the fragmentation process and generate simulator spectrum and then we rank candidate metabolites based on how how? Similar similar that spectrum Mr observed spectrum. And here the metric software is is currently the state of the art method for this. And finally, machine learning. We can use data peak patterns as a sort of characterizing. Characterizing information to predict the structure of the metabolite.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So we are going to go into.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So basically what we have here is that we have an MSN spectrum as a collection of of peaks. Each peak gives the mass and intensity. With some mass error and we want to predict that the metabolite which can be seen as a labeled graph. And then I was talking about prediction problem. So we predict from the set of all the universe of offsets in the Universe of crafts. And this is quite unfeasible at currently. So instead we. Introduce two phase seem very first predict. A set of binary and independent structural properties of the unknown metabolite. Which are called fingerprints in the chemical community. And then we we assume that these guys characterize metabolite structure so that we can pinpoint the original meta blood from tease. So we use. Here 10 minutes. Just use SVM to predict these these guys. And then in the second phase we have to construct a meta block based on these fingerprint predictions. Then we use the statistical model.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So that this is the overview of the of the whole framework. So basically what was on the previous slide. So we have another molecule we have it's MSMS measurement, we predict some intermediate properties of that guy and then we look into databases for candidate methodologies have matching. Matching fingerprints and hear some of the radical fingerprints will be incorrect. Most likely.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So that's a fingerprint set we use. 528 structural fingerprints. I mean sweet generate from Openbabel software. So here we have some examples of of those. So for example, the first one isn't nuts and Carter born. Oxygen and nitrogen. Structure and here the carbon is the central Atom and it has basically 3 three neighbors. And then slightly another variant pattern where the oxygen is changed into carbon and so on. Also some more. Sort of chemically more relevant substructures of the mandible light. And obviously these fingerprints need to be need to be predictable from them SMS data, so some some stuff probably cannot be predicted from SMS.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So be. Because we use SVM's, we want to introduce mass Spectra kernels. Anne, this haven't been previously. Introduced by anyone else. So basically what we have is a set of peaks. And we first extract 3 classes of features. So we just take the. So basically we have a sparse vector with some bin width. So if we have here peak at 73, so basically we just put. At feature vector at index 73, labeled the value of the intensity here and then the. Indexes zero to 72 will be 0, and so on. Uh. We use a second feature class which is the neutral losses, so that's just all peaks relative to their largest peak. Basically. So for example, here we have the largest peak and the second law to speak at. The difference of these guys is 18, so we put era at the position 18. The intensity of this guy and so on. So it's like a reversed. Feature vector. And then as the third feature, we used the differences between all all pairs of peaks. So for example, in the differences of these two guys in mass is 28, so people here at the position 28, the product of those intensities.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
I know because we have explicit feature vectors, we can just compute kernels, assess DOT products directly, so we get three kernels and then we can combine them into a into full kernel just by using a sum. So the problem with this model is basically that. It really doesn't have an error model. So if we have a peak at 7.493, so it doesn't belong to be to that feature 70 or 71, so it might actually be that it's it's Tepic 71. Or it's closer to that one? So there's another problem. So in.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
That what we do is we introduce our current density estimation model for the water Spectra. With some it's explicitly models there or in there. In the peak measurements. So we model each peak as a 2 dimensional Goshen. And then the whole spectrum is is a mixture model of these guys. An the variance is we don't have any cross variances because we think that masses are intensities don't really correlate. So the variance of mass. Basically defines the how wide this gosens R, so it defines the measurement accuracy and then we have variance in intensity which defines how do we? A way to envy, compare two peaks bits have same mass but different intensities. So here for example in this picture, the PS 73 here is so nice discussion and then this High Peak here. Is this guy here? So it's at 140 something. And this axis is the intensity axis here.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So now that we have a density model for Spectra, we need to define kernel 40s densities. So we use. The probability product kernel from here. Brian Condora from 2004 or actually 2003. So here the idea is that we represent. An an input data which are sets as distributions and then the kernel is a kernel between two distributions. And the kernel is defined as. The integral of the product of 2. Two probability distributions. So this has a nice nice interpretation that it's actually a expectation likelihood, because we can think of. The other distribution, as the model and the other distribution, sort of as the data. So then it's expectation of 1 distribution under the other. So how likely is it that PC? The first first spectrum, given that the second spectrum acts as the model. So here the feature spaces is infinite. But it's still valid valid kernel, and there is a cold closed form solution for for Gaussian mixtures, so this is really fast evaluate. And again, we can use the three feature classes. We just put them on top of. This this probably product kernel.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So now we have the kernels and we have. We can predict the fingerprint vectors. So next we need to find candidate metabolites that match this. Fingerprints so basically the problem here is that we cannot just go into a database and just take the taken metabolite which has exactly the exactly matching fingerprint vector. Because our fingerprint predictions will necessarily have errors or most likely they will have errors. So we want to list candidate methods on how confident we are that that's the correct one. So we can use the cross validation prediction accuracies. To measure how confident we are in a specific fingerprint. And then. If we are not very confident in something or in production, that's the one which we allowed to mismatch when we match against the database of molecules.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So what we do is we use a person be normal model. So basically it's just to be normal model where the success probabilities. Kind of body, so we have. So what we have here is we have a predictive fingerprint vector. He had a prediction and we also have SVM cross validation accuracies which still for each individual fingerprint. How, how confident we are that that was the correct one. And then we have a probability model for an arbitrary fingerprint from a database. And basically here we just for each fingerprint issues. Tools that are sort of. The weight of that thing had been given that it was either this. Matching or mismatching. So this then gets a maximum value when we. Have the exactly matching fingerprint and when it's when we have mismatching fingerprints. We get. Higher probabilities if the mismatch was a position which was. Productivity, low accuracy. And now we assigned for each metabolite a score based on its fingerprint vectors probability given this model. And then we rank Medabots by score and we define success so that if we have the true metabolite in top ten candidates.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So the experiments.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So we have three datasets from mass Bank, so Massbank is an open and free database of MSMS data. It's quite nice, it's it's. It has nice formats and everything. So the first database has little over 5 first data set as leader of 500. MSMS metapod pairs. And it represents a low accuracy quadrupole data set there. We also have data from different collision analysis, so lots of connection and she produces smaller fragments and a lower collision Nancy produces. Lots of refreshments. And here the M is the number of. Effective fingerprints so not all fingerprints are relevant for all datasets. Then we also have two high accuracy datasets. Mr BLTQ orbitrap an Lt GO data set contains common metabolites and lipid data set contains. Sort of exotic. Metabolites are probably not found in in cake or in places like that. We use standard SVM's. For the fingerprint prediction an we query candidate metabolites from either kick or pop Cam. So cake is a small database which is specifically for metabolites and COP commits a huge huge database of just general purpose. And any compounds do you want?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So here is a huge table of fingerprint prediction accuracies. So here we are at the top we have three datasets. And with QQQ we have different varieties of data set based on the collision at sea. And on the left we have. The standard kernel and their high resolution probability product kernel and then we have different feature classes. The peaks, neutral losses, differences and their combinations. And also we record the. Decorus is given a linear and quadratic. After processing basically. So here basically the important thing is that it seems that the high resolution kernel. Quadratic harder solution, kernel of it all feature seems to be quite good. So for example in lipids, random classifier gets 88% and this guy gets 98%. An integral. Colonel. Beat Peaks and notable losses gets 99.5. In altitude random classifier get 78% accuracy at the highest. Kernel method gets 91%. And in cuckoo, it seems to be cannot really improve much from. From the random classifier, this is most likely because cuckoo is very. It's quite noisy data set. It also is lower. It has a low measurement accuracy, so the peak positions have. Are not very specific. We also export some some data Fusion. Ideas here?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Here is a plot overall all datasets. Which highlights the difference of the different feature classes. So it seems that. Basic big features are here in the middle. The total losses are. Here and then we have the difference features here, but it seems that combining all data with these stars is the best idea. And the blue line. So there the probability product kernel. It seems to be better than the integral kernel. On average.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So here we look into. The prediction accuracies of individual finger pins, so here this is the Lt Q data set. And it has 128 effective fingerprints which we used and this is just the index of the fingerprint. So first fingerprint, second fingerprint and so on. And the bottom of the bar, so random classifier performance. The middle shows that integral, basic kernel and the top source their high resolution probably product kernel. So it seems that the probability product kernel is. Is better consistently better than to? Sort of sparse vector kernel.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And here we have a narrow C curve of the. Metabolite candidate Metaplace ranks? So this now records with different datasets and different. Data source databases. That the ranks of. Of the through metabolite. But I did get through our system, so for example with Lt, Q and when we fits candidate methods from kick we get something like 65%. Likelihood that there. But the first candidate we give is the correct one, an in top ten. We have something like 85%. And then when we go into Pop Cam, we see that the. Values are bit higher, so here in top ten we get maybe half of the. Half of the spectrum vegan. Efficiently identify.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So finally we compare this directly into metric. Because metric is the state of the art computer summit about integration packets right now. It's it's freely available at this address. It's quite nice. It's quite easy to use. So metric is a combinatorial method. It simulates the fragmentation, tries to find a candidate methodologies as a matching simulated spectrum. And here. When we retrieve contents from cake. We got the rank of the true metabolite in the top 10 in 16 and 18 out of 20 cases. An metric gets 9 and 11. And when we retrieve candidates from Popkin we get. Roughly half of the. Cases in the top ten an metric fails here completely. Mostly because metric is is computationally quite intensive. It cannot analyze 30,000,000. Compounds from pop Cam.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK, as a conclusion, so this this. Software packages available in SourceForge. So this is the first formal machine learning framework for medical identification. And the probability product kernel is a really really good match for this kind of data. And as a future work, I think the structure prediction aspect should be explored. And also perhaps feature selection in some way.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
OK, thank you. Thank you very much, thank Christians. Thank you, what happens when multiple lights have exactly the same mass or maybe very similar masses? Can you resolve them? So basically telling you can use chromatography with separates? It's something that you do before the mass spectrometry and it separates molecules based on their how they behave in a liquid when you forced and throw liquid. So there are some ways to do that, but we sort of assume that that's being done as a preprocessing. I'm too quick questions you gave accuracies for predicting the fingerprints, but you had like 100 finger fingerprints at this averages across all fingerprints or yes, averages. Yes, these are averages. Wouldn't some multi label measures being more appropriate in this particular case? So we tried multilabel methods but so far we haven't been able to. Get better results than when compared to just SVM's. I mean, it seems that predicting. The finger prints independently is quite. Quite accurate, OK. My second question concerns this graph where you had the number of fingerprints. If you just go a little bit back.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Yes, So what is this X axis? Is this when you use 1 two up to 30 fingerprints? This is the index of the fingerprint. So we have 128 fingerprints and this is. And prediction accuracy for individual fingerprints. OK, so this is now not an average. OK, thank you. So this is a question here. A nurse like 21 you showed results for a lot.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Have different kernels and for several tasks and just have a comment about that on the next slide. You then talked about means of these classification accuracies or F scores. So I've also encountered this problem very often that I want to compare kernels on very many kernels on many different tasks, and the average sometimes is a suboptimal criterion to summarize the performance of a method because a method can have a good average performance, but on single tasks it can be very bad or not, as it can be excellent, but in practice you would prefer a reliable method that is robust. Ann is rather good on all the datasets that you. Use it on. So what is a good strategy to summarize these results is to compute the distance between the performance of each kernel and the best kernel on a particular task and then take the square of that so the square deviation from the best method. Then you get a good feeling of which kernel is is robust across tasks and which will not vary too much in performance across the different tasks. Yeah, sorry, yeah, I agree. So basically we just did this kind of quite. It's not very exacting to do, but it's simply because we have so much results here that we just put everything like the cover. It's over basically just took averages over roles and that's it. So there's one more question there. Hello, thank you for your talk. How do you think this matter of the extent to bigger molecules like peptides? Or do you think it could be ported to? I think it probably could work right away. I mean, the probably the product kernel is it doesn't care about the size of the peaks and it's really fast even if you have lots of peaks. So I don't really see any bottlenecks seen.
