The first one is my view of independent component analysis, so I know that class Robert has talked to a bit about this already. The last thing I'll go over is this thing called the two sample problem, which is that you get 2 samples and you want to know if they are from the same distribution or not. Now just a quick drawback of doing the correlation and rotation separately, is that in fact you don't get as good an estimate of the unmixing matrix as you would get where you to solve for it, like in its entirity. So solving for the whole matrix is much harder, but splitting it up in this way is a way of saying that you think that getting the decorrelation right is much more important than getting the remaining part of the matrix right, and so if you sort of go through and do the analysis, you can find that the precision with which you can recover the mixing matrix is less. What I've drawn up in the top RAM, you have an estimate B of your unmixing matrix. Now to recover B you can maximize the expected log likelihood, which is the expectation of the log of your estimated density function. I write random variables in a sensory front, and I will overload the notation for distributions and densities, so a distribution and the density will be written as a capital San serif P. And also I'm using covariance matrices, which I'm sure you know what they are. Likelihood is a function of the angle of rotation, so the red bar in the center is the correct answer, and then the log likelihood is is the blue curve and you can see that the log likelihood is maximized when your unmixing matrix has the correct angle. And So what I what people define then, is something called a contrast function, which is 0 if and only if the recovered sources are mutually independent. So this means that it doesn't care about these ambiguities in the mixing matrix, it only cares about getting independent sources, and the sources recovered will still be independent despite these ambiguities. OK, so I'm going to talk now about how maximum likelihood with the correct densities gives you a contrast function. Since this is the P hat of S. So the KL divergent is something which is 0 if and only if the two densities are the same. Now another one which is very nice thing in theory is the mutual information. So this is going to be equal to 0 if and only if the joint density has the same as the product of the marginal densities. And entropies are easier to estimate the mutual information, but actually I mean not. So rather than using entropies, what people do instead is to use the expectation of some nonlinear function of the observations so this nonlinear function in an ideal world would be the log of the density, but since density estimation is a tough problem, you use some other nonlinear function. So if you're using an algorithm on the Internet, you have to be careful with it. But you can also do this with this time delayed correlation, so you multiply it with the same true and mixing matrix, and you should also get something which is diagonal. So you do a bit of algebra and you get this expression, which is a closed form solution for the unmixing matrix. Now, if you have multiple time delays, then there's a procedure called joint diagonalization and that allows you again to recover your sources in this case, and so you can sort of jointly solve for all of the time delayed. So these are basically kernel functions of your variables, which is zero only at independent. They take into account high order dependence as ICA, as mutual information does. Um? So there's an underlying density function which is smooth and the kernel functions will make certain assumptions about how smooth these densities are. Tell you what this means in practice, but it basically means that they're very much more robust than than some other methods. It's an independence measure for universal kernels. I'll talk about where dependence is hard to detect, and this will also be where the smoothness assumption comes in, and I'll also talk about how to choose the kernel because you have, like if you're using a Gaussian kernel, you have a kernel size and you have to choose that. And yeah, I mean the great advantage of this test and this is like oh, good independent tests have. So you get these pairs of points which have drawn here, so you get X1 and Y1 together. These spaces can be high dimensional and you get X2 and Y2 and so on. So one way to do this, which is a second order method, is that you basically take the interview, choose two directions, One Direction in the X space and one in the white space. OK, so now if you want to compute this in practice, you need to use the kernel trick. Now when you have a finite sample, you have this empirical estimate of this infinite dimensional covariance. So the best way to say this is to describe what happens when it isn't. So here is a kernel that isn't universal. OK, so now I'll talk about him doing statistical tests of independence. So you have a space of probability distributions which you partition into two subsets, which is this calligraphic P nought and its complement? So the null hypothesis is we define it as being that PZ is in peanut and the alternative hypothesis is that it isn't. And if it's outside this rejection region in some acceptance region, then you accept that the null hypothesis is true. And then you have basically intervals on the real line which this test statistic falls into, and some of these intervals of the rejection region and the remainder of the acceptance region. I mean you can make any number of tests and you want to say how good a particular test is. So there are two kinds of errors that a test can make, so one is a Type 1 error, which is you reject the null hypothesis even though it's true. Messy to remember which is which, but nonetheless. So from this you can describe the power of the test. Now the level of the test is something that here, as a user have to specify. So one set is the set of all possible independent random variables and the other set is all possible dependent ones. Now you can prove that for a finite sample size there is. Now, the reason for this is these norms in the denominator. You have a smooth density and you can see here just from this 500 sample that the X&Y are dependent. Because yeah, if X has values around here, then yeah. I mean you can sort of see that the density is changing, whereas in this case when you have a very rough density from 500 samples, you can't even see that it's not just a uniform density and a uniform density over X&Y is an independent density. So what you can prove, and I won't talk about how this is done, is that the empirical constraint covariance is going to be converging quite fast to the population one. This is the probability of the random variables being independent, but you believe that their dependent and so this you have to control. If it isn't, you say they are independent and this will give you a test of size Alpha. And this is this kind of has an interesting sort of philosophical implication, because what it's saying also is that as you get more samples for whatever else you choose, your Type 2 error is going to drop to zero at a fast rate at rate one on route end. So what this means is that as you drop the kernel size, your constraint covariance is increasing, but only up to a point. The one is there's another one using true estimates of entropy, so these at the moment are still too slow for large scale problems, so if you've got more than around 16 sources then you're in trouble. The kernel methods specifically have better resistance to outliers than any other method that I've tested, so this is an advantage. Hey, this is a performance of performance measure of how accurately you mix C samples, so it said divergents measure between the true mixing matrix in your estimate of it. And here I've adjusted the kurtosis of the sources. OK, this experiment now is outlier resistance, so don't worry bout this graph. Again, this is the number of outliers. So the example I gave earlier was the spike example you want to test if the spikes you measured on different days come from the same neuron or from a different one. So you want to know if you can aggregate the data that you collected over these two days or not. So the first source is uniform. It has a distribution which I've drawn a sample from. OK, so now we can define this maximum mean discrepancy in terms of kernels using the two things on that last slide. So in the first example, you know that both have a probability density functions are Gaussian. And even though you know what the sources look like, you cannot recover this rotation.