[0.0s - 29.0s]
I will now call on Doctor Alicia Shiner to give us the third presentation. Titled, Ultra High Performance Fiber reinforced concrete for rehabilitation of bridges. Recent advances in Slovenia. Doctor Lusher, Shiner studied civil engineering at the Faculty of Civil and Eutectic Engineering at the University of Ljubljana in Slovenia. His research work at the Vienna University of Technology in the field of fracture mechanics of mass concrete was completed with a PhD thesis. He returned to Slovenia and worked in the field of concrete and concrete technology as head of laboratory and consultant engineer. At present he is at the Slovenian National Building and Civil Engineering Institute Zag, where he is responsible for research work in the field of concrete, concrete, technology and execution of concrete works daughter Charlotte. Please thank you, Mr. Chairman for this introduction, ladies and gentlemen. Dear William Burt, our project Officer, it's an honor to have you in this room instead of the next number one. I will talk about the results of the work of the work package 5 which was devoted to Ultra high performance fiber reinforced concrete.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I don't want to be too technical in with my presentation, so I will skip more. Stick more on the motivation which guard our work, and I will show you the advantages for the user for the contractor. For the owner of using USB Farsi for habitation of bridges on example we. Prepared here.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
In in Slovenia. First of holy water, of course. What was our motivation? Our motivation? Was similar to motivation of the whole artist project, so we have limited resources available. Limited money limit. Especially limited resources, limited time and we want to repair our bridges as thank you very much now at the point, OK? As soon as possible, we want to limit the duration of the sites we want to increase availability of our. Or habilitation works. Other hand we are words we would like to promote the strategy.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
One which is going this construction or construction site only once repair it. Fast and durable. I would like to make the most of two. Make the best out of the out of the most advantage materials and combine and use materials where it is where it is.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Necessary. For this purpose we would. Use we will want to use the Ultra high performance fire. Very phones or force materials. Witcher? Which have ultracompact cementitious matrix, which results in outstanding durability of the material we use the multi level fibrous reinforcement which gives this material the tensile strain hardening and combining these two materials we get outstanding mechanical and an protection. Protective properties of material you can see on the on the diagram on your right. Comparison between. A diagram of a steel in the diagram of.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Of 1 Ultra high performance fiber reinforced concrete, sorry. Not use this. What is what is the metrics of UHPFRC made from? We have microsilica we have segment we have. Sometimes fine send, sometimes even know fine sent. We have very low water binder ratio we have. High amount of cement per cubic meter, of course, for applying this material we have to add quite a high amount of superplastic super plus.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Sizer. The fibrous 3 fever. So enforcement is, as I said previously, combination of of two materials. On one hand we have steel wool, very fine material and on the other hand we have microfibers also made of steel in the length of 1010 millimeters you can see all this basic materials in the lobby where all where examples available to see to see to have to. To get to get an impression how these materials look like. The doors, the dosage of the of the fibrous reinforcement is is also is also very high, from 6 to 9%.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
In percentage to get a better impression, this is the fracture surface of office material and you can see that we have here. Very forcement we can say only forcement in this material which is which is spread over the over the whole cross section of the sample.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The material used. What we want to do with this material. We want to concentrate on the parts of the. Structures of the bridges of the viaducts. Which are. Exposed to severe environmental and loading conditions.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And we just want to protect this. Parts of of our bridges. Because this material is. Is expensive you can.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Imagine based on the on the on the materials which are used. So. We want to protect. We want to apply the UHPFRC as a coat is an overlay over the over the whole reach to protect it from from, especially from from salty, salty, salty water from. In this way we improve the durability and we can also improve the loading caring.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Capacity. Structural habitation is a big challenge. Still. I mean we have. Issues to to solve, which are which are listed here. First of all, is the processing. How we do the rehabilitation. We have to ensure monolitic behavior of the structure of the new structure. We have to have. Good protective function at the end. Sometimes we want to improve mechanical performance and of course the durability of this. Recommendation method or intervention should be as.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Double as possible. We haven't started from the beginning in the work package seeks, there was some experience from the Samaris project. There were. Numerous laboratory tests. There were also successful full scale applications of.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Bailable, but still we want you to go. A step ahead. We wanted to develop the huge Pfc from local materials. Especially to overcome the ciment superplasticizer compatibility problem. As you will see later, we had a challenge too. Overcome the problem of the 5% slope. The UFB Farsi used. Previously, before the world before the artist project. We used only on the on the flat surface, so self leveling on flat surfaces with no slope. We wanted to improve. The surfacing office. British or. We call it both barefoot walking, which was also important for this bridge. As you will see later and we want to we want to. Fruit fruit, a test site, give the knowledge to also to our contractor company.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
I don't want to go too much into details into into into the group working on this. This is the. The partners within the work within the project. I think I have to thank also people who are not officially partners of the project companies which were not official in in the in the project. I will mention them.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Then later. So what were the achievements? Just just briefly, before I go to the bridge, first achievement was. I can say the new metrics for the UHP FRC we tried. We need to metrics which is which is very flexible because when we add fibers. Still, the work ability has to be has to be insured and we had some problems with just using. On your on your left, with just using segment for the metrics. So when we add it we're doing blend it with statement with mineral additions. We got very good very fluid Flibble metrics which could be later used for for the.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
HP FRC as I mentioned we had. The problem to apply this material which is now flyable or self leveling. On a slope 5% slope the slope which was on the bridge and we. Manage to do it in the lab with some additives of course to this material which are still secret, I can say. To apply this material also on the slope of of 5%, first you can see here just.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Some pictures from the lab. As we wanted to be sure before we go to the bridge, but this will work also on site. We first prepared a field trial test at Salon it, which is one of the partners in the project. We just mixed only nine 900 liters of this material, which is for concrete re not a lot of material, but for the huge Pfc is it's quite quite a nice quantity. We used industrial mixer for concrete. We use the transport. Vehicles which are normally used when you work on the construction site we prepared. The. Surface with a slope at it, will it as it will be on on the. The bridge and we also did some some. Our investigational site, like like Loss of materials like, how much Time do we do? We need to apply 1010 square meters and similar things and we.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Client quite confident with this. We also evaluated our material in in the sense of the protective function. For these materials, normal normal test methods are not applicable. I would say we use air permeability test method and for the purposes of this project are Zack bought the equipment to perform these tests and we were quite satisfied.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
With the results, we also validated the mechanical properties of this material.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
In the lab and based on this with this, we proposed this material to the owner of the local source Key Bridge for the rehabilitation.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Office office bridge. Bridges situated we are now. We are now in your planner which is here and the bridge is situated here. Most of you who will join us for a technical tour. We will not take this route, which is the shorter one from Rihanna to Toto boys. But we will go down to the South. We will visit on this way. Also our artist sites.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
What what was important? For the, especially for the users of this bridge. Is showing on on this. On this map. The bridge is is situated here and it's 60 meters long. And here's a small village called Loxia Suski. And the bridge is the main connection for the people here. To the main road in this village. School kids living where old people living and they all use public transport. Boss is which stop over there Soldier River on the other side. We normally walk where and they take the bus when the bridge is closed we cannot take the bus. They have to find another solution. Alot of people are working here. In a company called TKK. Which was almost also involved in this project, and if I want to go here, we have to make bicarb course. We have to make a detour which is 12.7 kilometers long and this road here on the. Left Bank of the River. Sasha is a narrow one, is not paved. You cannot drive 100 kilometers per hour. So. We explained the owner of the bridge, but we can save a lot of time. When we repair this bridge with our material. And but the repair will be probably will be more durable when.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
A conventional one. This is just a short sketch of the bridge is 65 meters long and it has a slope of of five.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Percent. As I said previously, won't. To have. Jointless coat over the whole bridge, normal solution. Four seas remove all this concrete. Remove the part of the deck. And replace it again. We offered the solution which is shown here covering the whole bridge with two point 5 to 3 centimeters of UHP FRC code.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
There were some more challenges to solve. As I said previously, the surfacing under on the horizontal surface is and.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
On the vertical surface is and.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Sorry.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
And we want you to have it jointless here in here.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So we did some more, some more tests, and in the lab it was it was. We showed that it is possible. The preparation works. Compared to the to the traditional solution. Not not as extended as at all. We just roughen the surface. We clean it with.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Waterblasting we put for more quiet is necessary.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And then we start. We start working. More details about this. Construction site with rehabilitation work you can either see on the video which is shown in the lobby or both of you who will join us. I will have more detailed presentation tomorrow in buckets. We decided to. To prepare small batches with 320 liters, we cannot even, even if the concrete mixer can make 1 cubic meter per batch with this material, this is not possible. We prepare two to three batches for trucks, 1 truck, one deliverable due to the bridge was only one cubic meter or even less, which of course cost some money and costs time. But at the end it's worth doing it.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Some just pictures to get the impression about the work. Here you can see the beautiful countryside. So if somebody now gets interested in joining us. To today and tomorrow. I think there's still some places available.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And this is the breach, how it how it looks at the moment. We had some problems, of course when you do something for the first time. You never know what will happen. We had the bigger problem we had was very high temperatures. Normally we would not do it with temperatures such a repair, but we invited. The press construction companies. More than 70 people came on the second day on the bridge to see how this how such a such a rehabilitation looks like and it was definitely not possible to say to people. Sorry, we cancelled the work because.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Is the temperature is too high? From the point of view of owner, user and contractor, what are the advantages of this rehabilitation method and this material? Of course, first of all, as I mentioned aside duration instead of three months that the site was only only one month, which is from the from the users point of view. Of course, big big advantage. Unfortunately, we still haven't got the figures. The costs of traditional and and and UHP first habilitation method. But I had a discussion with the director of the Contractor Company and he just compared. The costs of 12 man months, which is 2 months multiplied by 6 people having on the bridge this 12 months. He compared these to the cost of the 12 cubic meters of the huge prefer, see. In the traditional repair reputation cost assessment, there's no material costs at all, is just. It's just the works and. He hasn't given me the exact figures, but he has the cost of the work. Is higher than the cost, the cost of the material, so for him it's worth doing it. And of course, where is the advantage of the durability of the efficiency of this rehabilitation method? This bridge has been repaired after 30 years, so we're. Set, we assume that it will. The traditional repair work with last also 3030 years. We are sure that. The USB first rehabilitation would will last more than double office, and in the next presentation you will hear something about. Governmental advantages of such repair. Uh. You will hear. About the system assistance sustainability advantages of such repair and I hope. I don't know there's a shit I haven't heard I.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
There are some advantages as well so. Before going to the conclusions out, I would like some invite everybody to. To dare to try this matter. To repair the bridge is of course you have to focus on where. And why to use huge prefer? See it's it's. You cannot use it everywhere. It doesn't make sense, so just. Think of think of it and use it where it is, where it is really necessary. Important is to use local components. Of course you have to 1st do some experiments in the lab to get to get the proper to proper combination of the materials. Also also cost. Is also prefabricated. Elements can be made of this material and just even more to reduce the site duration. Important is that you can use just simple tools you on the pictures. OK there were not a lot of pictures, but you haven't seen any any tools which are not common on the construction site. And what is important is what? Maybe we just. Under a mist under. Invested under estimated. Thank you in this project was the training. Maybe we should put more more. More time in training people before going before going to the bridge. Wait, there's also possibility of using a combination of huge PRC and conventional reinforcement for the for the.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Tensies owns. As a conclusion. More or less it it it it was. It was said this already. Target on local hardening or enforcement is also possible. I think the simplification of the construction process were also some possibilities as well. We can increase the efficiency of existing and new structures by protecting with this material. The concept has been very successfully validated in previous applications in Switzerland and recently in Slovenia with. I think very important not just one, but many steps forward. And. As I already heard from the work package leader Emmanuel dinner, yet there are several. Applications plant in the in the recent future in different countries. So why don't?

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
You tried as well. Additional information can be found on the web pages of summaries and art.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
His. And I would like to thank not only the. Work package for the project partners. I would also like to thank the TKK. The company, which is located close to the bridge for the support. Of course the. The. Municipality of Borates, including the mayor. I think I hope he will join us today or tomorrow. The designer promoted as a company who designed it, actually built this bridge before as well. And the the CPG there contr.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Actor contractor company. And this is a picture of the. Group which was working on the bridge for working hard for two days and. We also achieved the barefoot walking on on it. Thank you for your intention.
