2nd, I'm going to explain how the the bounded irregular pyramid or beep is built. After that I'm going to to present two of the main characteristic of the of the beat, the preservation of connectivity in there tonight. And now we're going to see an example of contrition of the of the beep. The first step is a regular decimation process in this. About insert an interval training step which is which is the application of the Union find processing there in the regular part of the web and eventual patent search and virtual node linking step which is the application of the of the Union fine processing. The irregular part of the whip in the case of the of the base level there are not virtual nodes, so the Little Prince search unbeaten no link in step is not performing. Now we are going to see how how Bill Level 2 from from level one. The first step is the regular decimation process. These two nodes are linked together generating a bit one note in Level 2. Now we're going to see how how build Level 3 from level 2. The regular decimation process on there. In the in the receptive field is always generated by the linking of neighbor nodes. The receptive fields are connected. In order to to to prove that a, we must do to prove that there exists a built OneNote who's receptive field is formed by the note of the. Then when the when the beep is is built. The balance of the reduction windows are also neighbors in the upper level, and then they form a connected path in this level and disconnected part can be so debated in a set of reduction windows. And because it takes into account the following guidelines and their tiny radius must be uniform, the interior of the darians must be simple. The localized pyramid, the classical here arkie with radio growing stopping the hierarchy of image partitions and the combinatorial pile. They will not be time, it's half a reader structure where the estimation process is is fixed. So it comes with two main problems. The pizza combination between a regular and irregular approach. The goal of the whip is to solve the problem of regular approach of regular approaches, but with a low computational time. We have use four to one that is true to an A simple graph and a regular destination process combined with the Union fine decimation approach. At the most important conclusion is that the. Now we are working in increase the degree of combination between regular and irregular parts of the web because now we have a 2 union find processes running the regular part of the whip and one in the regular part of the beef and we are going working in to use only a union find process which. Thirst can be represented as a hierarchy of images, so this is the the main advantage of this type of structure, because they can be. Am irregular pyramids in contrast with with regular ones. The beep is a combination between a regular structural, an irregular warm. The idea is to use a. A regular approach in the homogeneous regions of the input mate. An irregular approach in the in the rest of radians. The web has two parts, a regular part an an irregular one. Therefore inside of it there are two types notes. They will add notes or not belonging to the regular structure on virtual nodes or not belonging to the to the regular is true to the whole babe can be. The process to to build a graph from the graph below has three minus steps.