[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hi, my name is Linnea Logan and I will present the process and result of my product biosynthetic possessions, which was my Bachelor product at contract, and it's a 10 week long project, and I researched the possibilities with synthetic biology in a speculative future scenario. Are reality. We can program and modify organisms into objects are reality, where your possessions grow at home instead of being manufactured in a factory.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So I'm linear Oakland and I'm at. I'm 25 years old and the last spring I finished my Bachelor in Industrial Design. It comes back in stock com and during those three years I was also an exchange semester at Parsons School of Design in New York and I'm working as an intern at the Interactive Institute as you said and where I'm mostly work with my own product, continuing with the field or my product that I will present now, and I'm also a team member of the 2016. The stock for my gym Tim IDM, stands for International Genetically engineered machine and started at MIT and its worldwide synthetic biology competition. So during the summer we will design a new Organism that we in the autumn will present at MIT in Boston.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So in the beginning of my product, I know that I wanted to work in some way with our relationship ship to our possessions, but I didn't know in what way. So I started out by investigating by how people Live, Connect, and think about their objects by talking to them about their relationship to the positions while they were collecting all the things home that they seldom or never use. And as you say, it was a lot of stuff and I found that many people have a hard time imagining. Reality is different from the one we live in today, so therefore I wanted to create 1 alternative and alternative that comment on the fact that we have a lot of stuff that we don't care about.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So after reading this book speculative everything by Dan Arabie, I decide.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
To use to do so by using speculative design. So now I will describe briefly the field of speculative design. Speculative design is a combination of design science and fiction, and the question of speculative projects often is, what if? So. Here are two examples over product that I find inspiring in the field.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Um tooth implant plant. By James Organ Gmail issue from 2001 is a communication device that would be inserted during a normal dentist visit. It connects to your phone and you can talk through it and hear from it like a headset and evaporation from the sound signal or received your bone directly to the inner ear. We're bone strong transaction, so the question here is what if we were always connected? What why? I found this product interesting is because it was done before the iPhone. So before we everyone was collect connected so and that they already in 2001 wanted to discuss something that can be considered an issue today.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So, and this is between reality and impossible by Dan Arabie from. And if the world is running out of food, but in this scenario a group of people take their faint in their own hands and start building do-it-yourself devices. These people use synthetic biology to create microbiol stomach bacteria along with with electronic and mechanical devices to maximize the nutritional value of the urban environment making up for any shortcomings. In the commercially available but increasingly limited diet, what if the world was running out of food? And I think this product is great because it really envisions some something completely different. Then we can imagine today by seeing this future you understand that there are a great number of possible futures. So the goal of speculative design is to create messages that form forms the future instead of creating obvious orbic set trigger people to buy.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And it starts with something in the present, like current research, a trend, a political or social issue issue, etc. It then extrapolates this something into the future, creating a speculations about if something could be. And this result is outside what we normally consider a probable future, but still inside what? What is a theoretically possible future? So and it doesn't have to be the future either. It can also show alternative presents and it's only by showing those alternatives that we can discuss if we want them to become real or not. We're used to seeing speculation and other media like media. Like a film, literature and art, but not in design in design today.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The objects are all almost always commercial and sober. People expect to be able to buy and use every designed object that we that we see. We expect the signed object to be directly implementable to our lives. Therefore, it is a strange of letting speculative products. We called design instead of art. People would think that it's real, for example.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
With the with the tooth implant, he was even on the front page of Time magazine with the title coolest invention of 2002. Even though the designers thought it was clear that it was a critical speculative project. So after this I do.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
To work with speculative design, I started reading about what people predict about the future and the world biology popped up everywhere. And through the Makerspace in Stockholm, where my where I'm an active member I found in contacted the biohacker group benefit can and where I got introduced to.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
A synthetic biology. So synthetic biology is a research area in biology and technology that combines engineering and the natural Sciences with the goal of constructing new biological fund functions that do not exist naturally.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The research area is rapidly progressing and opens up new possibilities that are unimaginable today. We can now culture meat and milk without using animals. Our lamp can be replaced by luminescent bacteria and the fabric and modified bacteria can also produce clean fuel for our cars and cut them for our clothes. We are heading towards a future where we will probably be able to change Organism organisms however we want. Creating biological circuits like the digital information technology we have today, this development might be threatening to our way of life, but it might also opens up great possibilities. This is where.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
I think the sign can determine the outcome. So during and after the meetings with the Bio Hacker Group but inefficient, the concept that I have worked with was born.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
This is the concept an acid is programmed to grow up to become a table instead of a three is obtained by a person that wants a table. It germinates at home a growth in its care to live, and it lives and repair itself as long as you take care of it. And if you're moving, you don't need to bring the table, you can just take a cutting and grow within the new place and in the end it dies and returns to nature. And this scenario can play can be translated into any living Organism or any shape. It doesn't have to be. World or table?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So the product was shown at Construct Spring exhibition and was visualized with three objects. Attend the bearer table and a lamp and I will now show you some photos from my resolution.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Inform process I wanted to bake the object to spark curiosity and to communicate that they are natural objects which it with human interventions theoretical lady.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Picked, the Organism could be programmed into in shape just like into a normal table, but I choose this language to emphasize the main point of the concept. So during the form form. If.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
This started with making form rules based on how nature forms and based on experiments in the workshop. After that I've been going back and forth between digital and the physical world.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Using things from nature to sculpture way, then using plugins and plugins and plugins to model the table and finally making everything fit.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Go to the exhibition so the lamp is made out of East and the modified bacteria in the concept and so it glows. Without electricity. The table is a seed programmed to grow up to a table and the teddy bear bear is modified mold that we grow with the child gets bigger as the child gets older. So on the exhibition I decided to.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Realized the different objects by making prototypes in the. In the different growing phases where prototypes at what the prototype to the right is on modified. In this case mold. Uh.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Um? My my teddy bear disappeared when I was in the park. I'm really growing it. Magley will soon be back. My meghli means mold in Swedish. With this teddy bear, I ask, what if the object that is closest to your child and that they treat it like it's alive, would actually be alive? Sam, this is.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
The original and modified plan to the right and modified. Sit next to it that then grows into a table so they said knows that it will grow into a table right from the beginning. Yes, like enormous, it knows that it will grow to a tree.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Thank you for watering my table. While I was on holiday, here is a cutting so you can grow your own table. What if things were just like digital photos, photos that you could access and create from everywhere, all the time?

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The modified yeast and bacteria lamp where they used is to the right.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Did you know that in the old days at the light in the landscape, from electricity from big ovens where coal was burnt, the entire world was heated and almost perished? What if we don't need electricity in the future?

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So this is what it looks like in the exhibition where with the whole product I want to ask where, what if our possessions would need care to live? What if we were not bound by our things and how?

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So do we want as designers and people to relate to synthetic biology? Do we only want to talk about the risk as with today's polarized GMO debate, or do we also want to talk about the possibilities just with another technology and?

[841.0s - 870.0s]
How do we want our present and future to be like? Thank you.
