So I will give a talk about mainly about turbulence modeling for nuclear engineering applications, but I will start by presenting EDF Electricite de France and India for Andy and the Department to which I belong. So this is an outlook of the talk, so we will start by brief introductions to EDF EDF RND, codevelopment at EDF. So for nuclear engineering applications will present the code do fast introduction to turbulence modeling to put the basis on your answer and Elias. So this one is not open source code property of idfk or even tier SN. We have surface which is open source which is our our code for thermal diffusion in solids. Address is where you can download the codes. We have code dusters with also known for general users structure mechanics. We have telemac mascaret system which is also open source for free surface flows. This is a simulation for example for marine turbines to see the influence of implementation of chlorine turbines around this island we have salami platform which as its name indicates it's a platform which includes CAD machine, post processing and the code is one of the codes. We have open terms which is a tool for uncertainties, treatment and reliability analysis, which does Monte Carlo political cause. Polynomial 5 Member correctly mean it has a lot of methods and you can couple it with another code and do uncertainty propagation for example, and we have other many. We have 11 lab technicians and 16 in average 16 PhD students. We have applied meteorology and atmospheric flows and we have chemical engineering for concerning the engineering skills we have freed and energy mechanics of turbines, heat exchangers and thermal thermodynamic cycles. Neptune, CFD, I talked already about it for two phase flows ANTIC, which is a component system code which is used for core steam generators and heat exchangers and which uses basically porous medium approach. So this is the and all these three codes are developed at FYI. System codes OK if in our development in the Department, but we use Qatar Dymola and this system codes. We have approximately 150 in-house users and 400 outside users. It's developed under quality assurance, so since a couple of years, I think it can be used for safety issues commissioned by nuclear authorities. Our enforcement 45 in C, 20% in other languages like Python, it supported on radio wide range of machines going from normal Linux platform. Workstation to let's say blue Jean. Q IBM machine, so it is really portable and now it can be also used installed on Mac or on Windows. It's the code is highly scalable, so I know I forgot to which figure which figure we reached, but I think we went up to 1,000,000 processor. Of course we cannot do everything via this interface, so you can use also. I was talking about before and it can also be coupled with faster for solid mechanics computations. This is an upper plenum, the core. We think we implemented, which seems obvious, but it's not that obvious always that obvious, and to test the numerical schemes and the validation step after that is, we have academic cases, some industrial or industrial configurations, and we validate the case on the code on these test cases. So these are some figures we have something like 250 calculations for the whole VNV process. The problems. So this is an example of verification with manufactured method solution. Agent management boron dilution thermal fatigue heat exchange in sodium reactors for generation 4I mean we have a whole panel of applications with which we use Sutter. The one I concerning the work which will follow and now I will go deeper on turbulence modeling. What you have in red used the concept of all functions. The other ones are too are what we call low Reynolds model, so we solve the turbulence up to down to the wall. OK, so we have standard models like Epsilon, K, Omega and more advanced model like a version of V2 F called fee Model or Phi Alpha which is more advanced model based on elliptic blending. Here I give the case of Cape Silent, which is easy, and we cannot expect to obtain in this case more than the average value for the diaphragm. It's a number one electricity company in the world. Almost 38,000,000 customers worldwide, 160,000 employees. So this is the whole group. 75 billion sales and 620 terawatt hour. So it's the number one in the world for nuclear power generation. So here you have the repartition of the different productions we have and we have for the whole group 4454% nuclear and for France. So the particularity of India. A turbulent heat flux is actually the main model which is used is this model is the simple gradient diffusion hypothesis, where you're right that urban heat flux is uses the term viscosity divided by a printer turbulent printer number? Native viscosity, but I do believe that we have better results when we solve the mystery of turbulence and we go down too. So some observations about what's happening today in CFD. Unfortunately, sometimes they are used as black boxes. The choice of turbulence model is of course very important depending on the physics. You perhaps I don't know 2% of the article use this kind of model. Also, we have to have appropriate appropriate inlet boundary conditions. And the answer is not obvious. It's a good example also to show that sometimes even Reynolds stress model don't have the ability to predict the flow. If this ratio becomes too small. In the in the hot leg. OK, so that's why I said we can use Renos model, but with the feedback we didn't use the first time the Reynolds stress model and push the button, it's after at least 10 years of experience that we managed to do that. Refining the mesh well with wall modeled models. They have a strong sensitivity of the first cells to the world concerning this value. This is to encourage the use of more advanced heat flux model. We ask ourself why modeling heat for heat fluxes had little interest from research community than the dynamic of the flow and we think simply at the end. Junction is better to use, well functions then refined mesh at the wall in the world normal direction and very course in the two other directions. OK, here we suggest, for example, for we did that for the ribbed wall to use the Taylor microscale mean estimate of the Taylor microscale to create the mesh far from the wall. The first one is consolidate and develop competitive and zero carbon production mixes. We're going to so one of the main topic is to consolidate the nuclear assets of the group and building its future. For example, contribute to the success of renewal in renewable energy projects and prepare tomorrow's technologies and also ensure the flexible articulation in the nuclear and renewable mix, which would be a challenge in the future. The second accesses develop and test new strategy services for clients, so this is more for our clients and, for example, develop new offers. For cities not only for particular persons, but for cities and territories, and develop energy efficient efficiency services and the third axis is paved, the way for the electric system systems of the future, and this consists in the success of smart meter projects, for example, and to develop advanced management tools for electrical system to integrate intermittent energy which will be very important with renewable energies. And here this is an example of. OK, so here we have fuel assemblies. I separate always separate big computations and standard computations. Perhaps today, the average is still rather 10,000,000, and I'm sure if we give. We have program for generation another for energy management, customer on sale and so on. Lot of partners we have more than 300 partnerships in France. With universities, research institutes and academic partners and a lot of international partners in the world. But we have also kaiti like all the techniques and harass in France and. Small focus on the new center in Arandi, so we have a new new campus in France called Bicikli, which includes two universities, 11 professional schools, 7 six public research bodies, 50,000 students, 1000 researchers and teachers and it it represents 20% of the French research. One of the reasons is to be in closer collaboration with research so. Do to enhance that we have also framework agreements with for partnerships with different partners.