I'm from the European Commission, DG Information Society and Media from a unit which is called software and service architectures in infrastructures. Basically what I will talk about is a combination of future Internet cloud computing and semantics. If you like of the future Internet and Internet of Services. Advance and just you know how in future Internet technologies. Of course, the next day Oracle announced longer cloud computing offerings, but. Actually, it's yeah this got in the slide shows what is different compared to traditional computing this cloud computing. This is a picture which is used by the train and this book about the future Internet. Well, it's certainly right to exclusive exclusivity. You don't need to share it with anybody is yours. It has certain distribution advantages for the Internet Explorer and this will lead to network effects that Microsoft can simply persuade to the service providers to use to develop services on top of the Internet Explorer. Standards. And that's something we see a lot in this research about Internet of Services. In a number of places, so the research addresses the development of semantic nodes in diverse strategic objectives. It's. It is in different places in the world program, so it has various relevant is not just in one place, but the point is this is it a core objective for research. The rest of the slides is about the work program. So what it says is India is more honest kids that America has kids and size matters. It's used as a critical part of the infrastructure that's being used to or it is being used by people. And on the other hand, you don't want to limit any content being provided over these lines, because that would inhibit innovation. Some kind of balance fault or for that. If I ask this. If you ask somebody here, what is it you will get a certain perspective if you ask. You're talking about Internet of Things Network. People talk about networks of the future, so all these different perspectives come here. Which design systems are constrained to produce scissors, which are copies of the structures of these organizations.