Webcam, child sex, tourism and how the Sweetie project developed as a response to that. Nobody knows you're a cop. There is a problem in investigating online child abuse of a very small window of opportunity to respond to online predators who can groom a child in weeks or even days, and police agencies report that the time period is getting progressively shorter. You have to have some other strategy. Recognizing this limited opportunity for intervention where children are at serious risk of exploitation and harm, including not only online exploitation but harms said follow through contact crimes, including and up to homicide. We've got cases of children have been groomed to a meeting and then killed, right? I think they took awhile to come round to it. Canada, US and perhaps other places as well. Well, there are very few webcam child sex tourism cases at the best of times and none I think that I can tell you about that involve sweetie, but we do have a child grooming cases where the police have adopted the persona of a child and interacted with child predators. A couple of cases from my own city of Canberra in Australia. This was uncovered by NZ Police Officer worldwide problem. Chat ensued. He's arrested. Charged there's a challenge to the admissibility of the evidence. The challenge was unsuccessful. With the recipient who is or who the sender believes to be under the age of 16. Reinforces this in another section by saying it does not matter that the recipient to whom the sender believes the sender is transmitting the communication is a fictitious person represented to the sender as a real person. I think we're in pretty safe ground and some other countries less so. About using something like sweetie well webcam, child sexual exploitation again in my view, should be amenable to investigation using the same covert methods as applied to other online investigations, including the use of traditional fictitious representations of children where that's permitted by domestic law. It seems to me about evidence gathering and we don't have a body of law about the permissible scope of automated forms of interactive evidence gathering, not passive evidence collection in the form of Sayre St CCTV, but something that actually interacts with suspects or potential suspects, and yet is automated. Grooming a fictional child in Australia is an offence. We assess the admissibility of evidence in terms of the public policy discretion, even illegally or improperly obtained evidence may be admitted in the public interest to do so. Places like the Netherlands much more like other European jurisdictions. Agents covert investigative methods have a legitimate role in response to online child sexual offending, and indeed other forms of at least serious crime. As children online has been accepted by courts in some countries, in others legal reforms are in progress to regulate such methods. Will sophisticated operations, like Sweetie 2.0, may raise additional issues about surveillance devices, regulation and requirements for automated evidence gathering where laws appear to be inadequate, legislative reform should be undertaken to achieve clarity and consistency of alepa It's at the end webcam child sex tourism. Refers to the use of video based technologies in order to sexually abuse children in other countries in real time. Pick this up and their child protection organization based in the Netherlands. And they published this report called Webcam Child Sex Tourism, becoming Sweetie a novel approach to stopping the global rise of webcam child sex tourism. If you think about this from a criminal logical point of view, what what are the features of webcam, child sex, tourism, relative safety for offenders? They're not traveling across borders, low risk of getting country again, and getting stopped at the border on travel into or out of their own country can satisfy their demands. Can be associated with contact defending, but need not not be, but crucially, it exploits the economic and social disadvantage of victims. And their families in vulnerable and often developing countries may involve. From the Netherlands mid last year, to Dutch men were arrested on suspicion of online child abuse and child sex tourism, so it's not being called their WCSC, but that's what it was. The suspected of webcam sex with children are relatively new phenomenon phenomenon where children are forced to perform sexual acts for webcam, so they came to the attention of police. There arrested and. During that short period, a total 20,000 / 20,000 predators from 71 countries committed crimes by soliciting the researcher, posing as a 10 year old child. That's one child online being targeted by 20,000 predators out of that larger group, they were able to identify through the use of various pieces of information about 1000 persons and they referred those to police and some arrests followed. Alright, now, while sweetie this was the first version in 2013 while Sweetie 1.0 was extremely successful, a limitation of its design with the human operator. Human operator can only conduct a number of chat conversations at the same time, while real victims receive up to 206 solicitations an hour. In fact, many, many suspects at once. The chat logs are stored and exchanged. Data processed per chat to a profile for each chat. Chat reports and extracts of chats are logged in a universally accepted standard. It feels facilitates the exchange of cases which would take into account genetic storage methods used by various national international investigation agencies such as Interpol based in Lyon, Europol, based in The Hague in order to simplify matching with other online child abuse cases, and that can include cases where real children are being groomed and victimized so we can. Is interacting with sweetie in a sexually charged way even a criminal offence given that she's not a real person, but she's a virtual avatar. And an answer to that question is important, because if webcam sex tourism with a virtual avatar is not criminal, it would be much harder to make the case for the use of sweetie as an acceptable investigative method, right so? Except this method of investigation, procedural question, a suite is an investigative tool and very innovative one.