I'm singling from University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign today. I'm going to present a paper called a statistique model for popular event tracking in social communities. We want to know like a question like who initialize a rumor and who are still interested in the Avatar 50 days after it is released date and we want to know what the people say about Tiger Woods before and after the sex scandal. We propose a multi variant Gibbs Random Field to model the dependency among users and the influence of their past status. So formally the interest status HK is a family of the random variables divided on the network structure. In the topic model, we consider each document dki is generated from the mixture of two component models. Theater B and theater K. The theater B is. OK, so formally the posterior of the topic. So finally, given such given our modified as above, we can fit the model to the data and estimate the parameters by the EM algorithm. Specifically, in the step, we computer the expectation of the hidden variables like this here. So by integrating the lock around multiplier, the influence of Hki boils down to solve a cubic function. Twitter is a free social networking and microblogging services where user can send and read messages known as tweets, these traitors. Also we have a few of baseline ground truth. The first baseline is a state automation model developed by John Klingberg and 2nd Baseline is a contagion model developed introduced by Morris. We can prove that the the 1st and the second model are special cases of our model. So in this model, in this paper, we propose a novel probabilistic model called pad for popular event tracking in a time variant social communities, that is consists of both a stream of text information and stream of network structures. So specifically, the paddle leverage a give us a random field to model the interest among users depending on both of their historical status and their social connections. The same event has different content like for the movie of Water, before its release day, people cares about the movie title and when it published private People talk about the movie contents and two weeks later people talks about its historical significance like the 3D technology. But all of these Facebook impressions are talking about the same event. The first concept is a network stream, so the G1G2 and GT is a stream of network structures, and Jackie is a snapshot of US general structure D at the time key where I know the standard for the user and the edge corresponds to a connection between 2 users. The second concept is a document stream, so the document stream D1D2 and DT is a stream or document connections where the decay is a set of documents. The third concept is event. We know that us semantically coherent topic theater is the multinomial distribution of words, so that we define a popular event as a stream of topicals theater zero. 31 until 30. We assume at each time point OK. Each user has a certain level of interest in that event and we model such level of interest as the real value hki between the range zero at one and we die. Given a primitive topic theater O that describes a popular event and also we give a stream of networks G and a stream of documents as the observation. The second observation is the interaction between interests and history. The first assumption is given the current network structure and the previous interest status, the current interests that are the HK is independent of the document collection. Or sorry, the document is a result, but the reason of the of the interest status. The problem of event can be casted as the influence of the posterior of HK and Theatre key.