[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hi, good afternoon everybody. Thank you for attending my presentation. I'm singling from University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign today. I'm going to present a paper called a statistique model for popular event tracking in social communities.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
OK so first let me talk about the motivation. There are three graphs this our friend networks. When I have joined the Facebook for one month one year and now you can see that the prevailing of web techniques has related to the boom of social communities. So which has successfully facilitated information creation, sharing and diffusion. As a result of popular event can be spread more much more faster than ever before. For example, if you search the event Toyota recall in January this year all the events on Twitter, all the returning results on the first page are created within 5 minutes. So in such a scenario is very appealing to think about the question that how could we tracking popular events on social communities. We want to know like a question like who initialize a rumor and who are still interested in the Avatar 50 days after it is released date and we want to know what the people say about Tiger Woods before and after the sex scandal. Before we try to answer their questions, we are thinking about which resource we can utilize. I think we have three kind of results. They are text history and network structures. Others on the social network are generating text information every second. Large value of text information and also web user is always interested in topics which are consistent to her history and also the users interest will be influenced by her friends. So that's the influence from her network struck.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Cheers. So in this model, in this paper, we propose a novel probabilistic model called pad for popular event tracking in a time variant social communities, that is consists of both a stream of text information and stream of network structures. So specifically, the paddle leverage a give us a random field to model the interest among users depending on both of their historical status and their social connections. At the same time, a topic model is a desire to explain the generation of text data. Given the interests of users. So that the guy was the runner viewed as a topical model, then interacted with each other. So finally the problem of popular event tracking is cast as an optimization problem. Xata considers all the features of a user's historic texture and structure features.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So now we can formally divide the problem.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Of event tracking. So let's begin with defining a few key concept. The first concept is a network stream, so the G1G2 and GT is a stream of network structures, and Jackie is a snapshot of US general structure D at the time key where I know the standard for the user and the edge corresponds to a connection between 2 users. The second concept is a document stream, so the document stream D1D2 and DT is a stream or document connections where the decay is a set of documents. Published at Time Key, where a document Dki belonging to the DK is a text document associated with the user. Weak AI in the network structure GK. The third concept is event. We know that us semantically coherent topic theater is the multinomial distribution of words, so that we define a popular event as a stream of topicals theater zero. 31 until 30. Here, the Theater 0 is the primitive topic describing a popular event, and there the key corresponds to the version of Theater K at time zero at Time K. So the 4th concept. Is interest for a particular event? We assume at each time point OK. Each user has a certain level of interest in that event and we model such level of interest as the real value hki between the range zero at one and we die. No download the set of interest values for all nodes in GK, SHK.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So with this key concept, we now can give the formal definition of the popular event tracking. Given a primitive topic theater O that describes a popular event and also we give a stream of networks G and a stream of documents as the observation. The PAD aims at two tasks popularity tracking at the topic tracking for the popularity tracking, we want to infer the latent stream of the interest age that to see we want to know at each time point, the key, how much user is interested in a particular event. So this HQ values not only capture the overall popularity of the event among the whole network. But also give very rich information about how the interest is developer, the housing, interest evolves and diffused among the network for the. For the second task topic tracking we want to capture the content evolution of the same event. Add to say the the major aspect of the same event could change along time.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So now let's talk about the event tracking.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Those. A really reasonable model of tracking popular event in social communities should be able to catch the information diffusion, catch the burstiness of interests. Also can also explain the generation of content. So on the other hand, a practice model should capture the major factor of the problem, but ignore trivial ones, so based so now we have three key observations and the two independence assumptions. The first observation is the interaction between the interests HK and the connections that to see the behavior of a web user is in inevitably influenced by his friend. That is to say, if every user if her friends is all interested in the event, then it's more likely that the user is also interested in the event. The second observation is the interaction between interests and history. That is to say, the. A user's a web users interest should be consistently with her history. If the user is interested in the events, that is more more likely that he is. Also, she is also interested in the event in next time step. The third observation is the interaction between the contents and the interests. All we know that every user is more interested in the event that it's more likely that the user will generate the contents similar to the to the topic of the event. Also, we have two independence assumptions. The first assumption is given the current network structure and the previous interest status, the current interests that are the HK is independent of the document collection. The reason is. The user first becomes interested in the event and then generate the content about the event so the document connection decay is a reason, but not a result. Or sorry, the document is a result, but the reason of the of the interest status. The second assumption is, given the current interest status and the document connection, the kind of topic model theater K is independent of the network structure. Or the reason is once a user has raised, are interesting interests in the event, then the content the user generates we're only depends on the event itself and the level of the interest.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So was the three observations and the two assumptions. The problem of event can be casted as the influence of the posterior of HK and Theatre key. That to say, suppose at time K we already know the. Document stream on D1 until decay and already know the network stream. G1G K. Also, we know the network is previous status HK minus one, so it's reasonable that we make a mark of simplification that we think. The posterior of HK and Theatre key only depends on experience status and current status. So such posterior equals to the multiplier of two components. The first, the components without noted as the interest model and the second component, we called the topical model for the interest model. It captures the observation, one of an observation 2, and it assumes independence between the interest HK and the document decay for the topic model reflects the observation three and assumes in the independence between the theater K and the. HK minus one.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So based on observation, one observation two and.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Assumption one we can give the detailed format of the interest model detail. We propose a multi variant Gibbs Random Field to model the dependency among users and the influence of their past status. So formally the interest status HK is a family of the random variables divided on the network structure. Dickey and we give a configuration of HK that follows a Gibbs distribution us. This one in this formula. The that is the partition function for normalization and the lamina T is the temperature also constant. The UHK is the energy function in our model. The energy function is the sum of two kinds of potential functions. The first potential function models the transition energies for a particular user to change from its previous interest status to the current ones. So here the HH K -- 1 is the user eyes previous status and the hki is. Users current status. So the second potential function gives the penalty for the difference between a user's current status and its expected value. Are users expected level of interest should be estimated from his friends. So here's a hki prime is expected value. It's easy to see that on the first kind of potential functions, cabbage Cariflex our observation to that means to say that to say a user's kind of status should be generally consistent with her history status and the second kind of potential functions capture the observation one. That to see the users current status should be consistent with her friends.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
In the topic model, we consider each document dki is generated from the mixture of two component models. Theater B and theater K. The theater B is. Is a background model and there the key is the latent topic model that we want to estimate for the time point. OK, so formally the posterior of the topic. The first area of the topic Theater K is giving us this one. The posterior is proportional to the multiplier of the likelihood. And, uh, directly prior, the likelihood of the document connection decay is like this one. Here, the C is the frequency of the world W appearing in the document dki and. Here the P is a probability of generating a award W in the dki is quite similar to the typical algorithm PSA. For the prior for the duration of the prior. This theater 0 is a primitive topic describing the event. The reason for us to set up for the Richard Pryor is that we we want to regularize these topics so that they won't drive the too much from the event. Although we allow, although we allow the this topic is a change, overtime we still want to make sure that this topics are talking about the same event. We can see that here the HK is the interest level of the of the user. I at time point K so we use the interest level as the topic distribution in this probability. So it will captures our observations, three that to see the higher the interest level is, the more content user will generated information about the event.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So finally, given such given our modified as above, we can fit the model to the data and estimate the parameters by the EM algorithm. Specifically, in the step, we computer the expectation of the hidden variables like this here. That is the indicator to show whether the word W is generated from the topic model theater K or the background model. In the Animus tab we update the parameters so as to maximize the object function. All the details of the formula is a little complicated, but generally the first layer of the formula comes from the interest model and the rest 3 lines comes from the topic model. The second line reflects the component component model, said OK and the third line from the model theater. The background model and the last lie come from the direction of the prior.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So by integrating the lock around multiplier, the influence of Hki boils down to solve a cubic function. Ignore this details, but I can prove that the cubic function has and exactly how one route between the range of zero and one. That is to say, we always be able to find a valid value of valid solution for the HK I.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So last, let's talk about the.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Pyramids. So in our experiment we use two data set Twitter and DB RP. Twitter is a free social networking and microblogging services where user can send and read messages known as tweets, these traitors. Have connections called follower follower relationships in our data set will crawl down 50,000 users with more than 1 million tweets displayed during the period of October to December last year. So in the in the data. So for the DPI.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
He would do the same things. Also we have a few of baseline ground truth. The first baseline is a state automation model developed by John Klingberg and 2nd Baseline is a contagion model developed introduced by Morris. We can prove that the the 1st and the second model are special cases of our model. If we ignore the network efforts and the topic efforts respectively. So we do the analyzes on popularity trend network diffusion.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
I counted the solution for the popularity trend. We can see that our model always has the highest correlation score with.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Wrong truth and for the network diffusion we can see that the network the word nodes in the network of our algorithm are smooth view edges, which occurs better to the situation in the real world that would say peoples interest are inevitably influenced by there.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Friend. So for the count and evolution we can see that a lot of the time developers. The same event has different content like for the movie of Water, before its release day, people cares about the movie title and when it published private People talk about the movie contents and two weeks later people talks about its historical significance like the 3D technology.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
There are a few ongoing works in this model. We only track one path or one event one by one, so it's natural for us to think about whether we can track a set of popular events simultaneously and whether we can do personalize the popular.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Under tracking is a quite interesting question. Like last last awake, the Facebook has reached the 500 million users and then Facebook employees do do something to celebrate it. Somebody publish thank you group photos and somebody or change their profile pictures and somebody write something on the status. But all of these Facebook impressions are talking about the same event. If we can extract the latent topics and group these impressions together, I think it will be very useful and interesting to Facebook users.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So any questions?
