We'll go through several families of V3 configurations and some small examples of well known classical configurations and configurations arising from special families of graphs which are. Incidence structure is a triple. Points B is a set of blocks and I is a binary relation between points and blocks. Offerte design anti design with blocks of size K. And index Lambda. The subset of size T. Of the set of points, there are exactly Lambda blocks containing this. Projective planes of order K -- 1. If it exists, of course, is called a finite affine plane. Lectures, but will limit now to combinatorial configuration style. Skip that word for Minotaur real talk just of configurations. The RBC is an incident structure of points and lines. Projective planes on time please. There are lines to each point and K points on each line. So each different points are connected by mostly one line. And then we have R = K. This four parameters are not independent. I called symmetric and we shorten this notation to VR, just. Or edges of the levy graph in two ways. Let's take one point and count all points on incident lies. OK, so the number of. Sufficient? They told P elements of PR called points and elements of B are called blocks and. Such as the point P lies on the block, BB passes through PP. Or projective plane afforded to? More or less trivial projective plane of order K is K ^2 + K + 1. V3 configuration, then we call it a cyclic V3 configuration with base Block 0 AB and we denoted by. Well, we have a proposition here which tells that incident structure is a VRB configuration if and only if. What is good? What is a dual incident structure using exchange? This quarter ZV covering graph over. What is the offer particular interest when you speak of configurations? Well, you can reduce this task to graphs until try to construct our K regular bipartite graphs with God's greater 6. Regular bipartite graph with girth greater 6. Bigger configurations from smaller configurations. So that you really represent this points and clients offer this abstract combinatorial thing in the Euclidean plane with points and lines, so that blocks will be lines. We have a number of cyclic configurations. There is also connection between incidence structures and graphs. We can assign to each. And this is a bipartite graph with. The black vertices representing points of this structure be white vertices representing blocks of this structure. If and only if the corresponding point and line are incident. Partly because it is an incidence graph of such famous incident structure and power for other reasons, but for other reasons. The other well known family of incident structures.