[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, now he's trying to to have a more active. Participation in the workshop. This is the first activity that we have a program for this workshop, so the idea is that you have in the. In the agenda.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
For this workshop is to ask you about a try to identify which is the more relevant. The most important issues in relation to starting or continuing open education project that this is the main topic of this workshop. How to identify in groups in small groups. Trying to altogether identify which is the more relevant. Issues that we should consider when we start or will continue without pain education project. The idea is to have a short list of the main topics. The main issues. Trying to organize them about different categories according to the main stakeholders of the open location so.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
To make a super short introduction to this exercise, I am going to reuse a several slides about that was. A presented by from older for a move that is the UNESCO chair of Oh, is one of the unique culture of all year of the open education of the Open University of Netherlands. That is officially the that open location. According Wikipedia, we have several definition we have beginning to discuss about. The concept is open. Education is something very general concept that. Good a include many of the OR the terms that we have used up to now or we are CWS cetera.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
But the idea is that we want to began with an open education project, but this is not only Oh yeah, we have to identify which is which are the main factors that can influence in the developing, developing an open education project. Not only.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Oh yeah, so we have. Besides Oh yeah.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
We can think about of all the learning services that the institution can provide in order to make successful successful. Location projects. That is, according to the educational model that follow in your institution, you can think about all the services. For instance, the creation of community or built orphan. Facilities. Or maybe Georgia students are interested in decertification or their knowledge of the learning process that they have followed according to the using this kind of of material. This is one or this one of the topics that execution should provide.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
But not only the services by which is the effort of the teachers or the teachers, an instructor, training developers, etc. All the all the academic staff that. But the. That should provide about their contribution to the open education Open Allocation project.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
But this is the from the viewpoint. As of the institutions of the University as a supplier supplier of contents of services, etc. But this is not the only side of the problem, we have to consider the demand they demand.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Of the student that needs. Which are the needs of the students? Needs about the.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The kind of. Anne of learning that they're interested in.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
It. Up I'm finally the employability and capabilities development. Finally, which is the spectation of their society in general, the society wants to growth the labor market in is in a specific direction, but not only Europe. For instance, system is interested in the development of learning outcomes of new skills of critical thinking. Apprenticeship. Super ethics, creativity, etc. So this is a general global overview that I try to explain in order to identify or to analyze which are the factors that can influence in the open education or projects institution as supplier the demands that received that institution.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
The idea is trying to identify list of topics according to the staff. Faculty in general administrators, students. Which are the topics the more relevant topics? That can affect the development of an ability of any open education project. So this is the context. Or this is the Super center. So now is your time. In order to group small groups, I think that in two or three. Two or three persons. In a smaller groups and later in the day, for 20 minutes 20 minutes, I think more or less and the final five minutes we will put in common all the main conclusions. We can change our seats so they they do is to group in two or three persons that could be together.
