So the topic is patient, automated query answering or mobility streams is trying to work with Thomas. We create groups of bags so we can drop the temporal order. We could also apply like Lt L like and also an interesting observation we had is one can see the grouping of path. Then we apply our aggregation function. We only allow known individuals to be grouped and summed up, so we create. But it has some problems as we discovered them and the spatial relations are calculated in memory using this TTS topologies would we? Cars just don't go always straight. Future work is we have to still provide or work prior to complexity results. Probably is conjunctive user subset, so there's more features to add and there's also future work in the practical side, pull based queries, optimizations and. And obviously it might help our Google car as well. This communication allows like traffic participants to exchange information. I'm driving 30 and so this messaging is but so now it gets kind of challenging. So we have a lot of GPS coordinates, so our goal and this is more the long term goal of our research is understand traffic scenes in a complex changing environment. We figured out it's a good foundation for analyzing this traffic scenes and also the community already got to the point that they said, OK, we have this local dynamic map, but we can actually use a stream database to kind of build our local dynamic map end because our domain is very complex. We have like traffic rules. I'm going to ask here is on top of the streaming base our examples, so I actually introduced some color coding because otherwise it gets completely confusing. We need obviously a data model in the query language, so the data model is, we assume innovative, most straightforward one. We said we have point to point based model and for us valid time is important to motivation is because we talk about the future. So we need to have a valid time and so the data data stream is defined as a triplet. So it's obviously a timeline. So in this kind of the idea of having also applies. So what we have is three types of atoms we have like like ontology atoms which have to be unfolded regarding our tee box or regarding our ontology and unfolding is also rewriting. So if two objects to intersect it evaluates through localization is assigning to objects. So the first one is we have different types of atoms. We need a clear semantics for for the query answering and relate to the semantics. There is in general in tail lights. There is work of Calvinist scallops, temic aggregate queries, and we can locally for our streams apply.