[0.0s - 29.0s]
Speakers humming man. Currently, a postdoctoral associate at Southampton, and he'll be talking about integrating 2 features or kernels within one estimate class. Good afternoon. I work with Heather Sandal. And Jason Parker on the title of my presentation is. 2 features integrating 2 features or kernels within one SVM classifier. Out night.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
First, I will give a brief introduction for what the problem we want to do and the motivation of our idea, and Secondly I will introduce our proposed monster named. Ask them to care. Is it including framework and implementation based on general server and the first algorithm redeveloped? Then I give some experimental results. Finally, I give the conclusion and future work. Introduction.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
In many application problem we also can get more than one features from 1 sample. Here I give an example from one image. Based on different method feature extraction method we can go to different features. Here I give examples. There are two kind of features when named Movement another is the sift. There are two features in the two feature space. Weak in the image classification problem, we can based on any of these two features and make the classification by SVM. But, uh, I.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Fortunately, for some difficult data set. By only by SVM the. Classification accuracy are not good enough. This is the experiment we done for two datasets. When is bike. Bike with background. And another is the person with bank around. Only based movement feature for the image classification. For the bike data set, we go to 74. An increasing and based on the safety feature we go to 76 and we also contended need these two features together make a long feature vector and try to use SVM for the image classification. We got 70. 75 from this. From this application we found based on this. To enable in the individual features. The classification accuracy was not good enough. Here. This is a binary classification problem. The object image with the bike and others are background for the. For another data set person with the background. It is also another binary classification problem. We got the similar result that that's not good enough, so. We try to combine these two features together and try to get better result. This.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
This is the basic idea. We try to. Combine these two SVM as when one based on the feature one and SM2 based on feature tool we given. Given an additional constraint for the. Decision values between these two SVM and decrease the difference between these two dissident factions. So after we training based on this rule and then we can get another. Pair of decision function. decision function one and design decision function tool an. In the test. We can combine these two decision function together and get. The synthesis rule for the final decision function. This is our basic idea. The reason we. Why we end this? An an additional constraints because we think from one image. If this image belong to one class based on the 1st SVM, it usually can get. I. A value is quite similar with the SM to the second SVM. So let's introduce the framework here.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
We try to combine these two SVM in one constrained optimization problem. This is our. Integrated constraint optimization problem. This is for the 1st. Feature we call it feature a. This is for the first SVM. This is for the second SVM. And we also combine. So object function together. Define. Uniform. Object functions in this object version WA Representative first SVM and double before the 2nd and. Say a four penalty for the 1st and save it for second. Another one is the ETA is additional. Snack. Sync variables there is the penalty. Here the most important part is the synthesis rule. We end this rule here. Actually we can define different rules, and in our work we just use very simple one for the number one. Difference between these two? Decision values we tried to make it very similar, not big enough. And find this optimization problem. After we combine these two SVM in one constraint optimization problem. We can use a similar method. Try to solve this problem. Then we use a similar method used in SVM.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
This is the dual problem in this dual problem for Alpha A is for the first SVM after before the 2nd and we got another additional. Variables beta positive beta negative. These two additional variables came from our constraint. And others are similar with SVM. This is the all the constant. After we combine, combine these two SVM together. Then we try to solve it similar with SVM with quadratic program method.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This is the quadratic program. Mastered. We can use the matrix representation to try to represent this problem in this way. The difference between. The difference between this one with the standard SVM we found there are another. Using equation. Yeah, equivalent. Constraints here. And we build a big variable vectors that are full. Complaints are for a RP beta positive with bitter negative. And we also finish.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Other parameters this is matrix, AHAB and others. We can find after we make this change for the SVM we got more complex. Quadratic programming problem. And. The fun follow hypothesis is we try to combine. This tool decision function together use a linear combination. The problem here.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Is there two difficulties? The first is storage becausw. The Matrix is 4 times bigger than the original 1. The second one is completed in time. We should need more time for computing. Here I give the experiment result on the computing time. We tried this. We try to solve this quadratic programming problem based on the MATLAB optimization toolbox. There are four datasets. When is bike background person with background motorbike, airplane and faces. These are 5 in binary classification problem. This is the training numbers for the back is 200, person is 200 and multiplexes 860. There are three and four. The airplane is 904 spaces is 675. We found for the small size optimization problem, such As for first. Tour Bay, you will compete in this. Problem use 22 and 18 minutes. And for the big size. Organization problem for example for this one it is more than 8 days and this six days. And so I found this. Big problem, this is a big problem for this method, so the next step we try to reduce the storage also quite reduce the completion time. First away.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Consider the special case in the optimization problem. If we define the epsilon. It's a small positive small law negative value. If we define it equals zero, we can get a simple one. This is modified. Quadratic problem programming problem. In this case we have. We we have removed the. Equivalent constraints and the size of this problem have reduced to three times bigger of the original one. This matrix is similar. For.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Other case for the episode. Bigger than zero. We also found there are another constant included in this alternation. Problem is beta positive time beta negative equals 0. And then so we. Define another tool, variables you minus. You posted your negative equal beta positive minus beta negative. And similar define you positive. Then we can go to this relationship. And then we can got. We get. Smaller size.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Optimization problem. The size also three times bigger of the original 1. After we done that, we also found found the. That is not enough for our problem. So we.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Try to find another way and develop fast algorithm for this problem. Our method, based on augmented Lagrangian formulation. The basic idea of augmented lettering. Formulation is changing from one optimization problem to another in this way. This is. Only. As they only constraints and after we define Lambda megaranger, multiple 4HZ equals zero. We can define this another object function and. And we can, based on this one. To solve it use. Other method? Here is.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The algorithm skeleton. There are four steps. The first step we define some initial parameter values. And the main part is the second part. We solve the problem. For fixed Lambda care and solve this optimization problem. And then step three is update Lambda as well. Update us, see. And not step is if. This value less than epsilon what we defined and then stop otherwise go to Step 2.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
We found after we use this fast algorithm. The computing time has reduced fastly. This is the experiment. Based on optimization toolbox and. Augmenting the knowledge and method. We can find for this five data set. For the bike it reduce. 8 seconds. And person 10 seconds and motorbike, airplane and faces. In 40 seconds, 40 seconds, 6 seconds. So that's very efficient to solve this problem.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Then we I will give some experiments based on this method. First I use this method in the generic object Regulation. And so the second is, we use it for the multiclass image classification. For the generic object recognition we try to. Try to classify or diss track classify the object images from the other images we use in the first experiment we use data set from. From now project. It's a bike with low back. No person person with no back, no person. And for the training is 200 samples 100 positive, 100 negative and testing is 5050 positive, 15 negative. The feature we used is moment environment from interest points is no level feature from image. Another one is shift. It's similar but it got at the are obtained based on to different method. The dimension of the feature vector is 400. I can show the.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Image of her. This is these are some samples from this data set for the active state. This is the object. Image data set. The object is bikes you can see. It's. Quite different each other and 2nd set is person. You can say it's also is very with big variance and others. This is the background. All these images are. From it's a natural image and it's very difficult to set for the classification.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Another data set. For the generic object regulation. From from. Did that used for is a standard date set for the generic Object Regulation in the motorbike with background airplanes, background faces, space background. We learning use hard learning, half testing and the number for the motorbike is 863 and four. The airplane is 900 and four faces is 670. 5. The features we used to get the similar this moment feature and sift feature dimension also seemed 400 for the fit directores.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
This is the classification accuracy computed by MATLAB optimization toolbox. Before this five data set. This is the individual. Features for moment and saved for this. The folder first 2 datasets. Because these two 2 datasets. It was very hard, so the classification rate is very very very bad. And for the other five, is much better. Because this data set is more easy to make classification. We also use. No longer feature vector content. Concatenate them together. These two figures together make high. Dimensional feature vector and then we use SM to care to solve this problem. If epsilon equals zero, we got for the back and person these two data set. We found the performance. It was very good. There are. 7% improvement. For the others. Other three we first found also this item to care is better than all the former three and four epsilon equal half. We got a similar result is a little bit better than epsilon equals 0.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Then this is the. Classification accuracy based on our fast algorithm. Also same data set. And we use different parameters and this is the result. Published in other papers. And. We found 4. The first 2 the performance. This one is better this one. How could we use to two ways? 1st Way is fixed training and testing because in this data set there are very clear. Onion sample and testing samples. And. We found all these 5 deaths at our performance. Fixed. This is fixed this for the random. And we found. The performance is better and we also found for the our fast algorithm it can be compared with our. Must never optimization. Toolbox is similar. This result based on a fixed. Fix the. Training and testing samples. We found the result. Sorry. The result. Is similar with you smart number. Optimization toolbox, but it's much faster. It's much faster. And especially for this set. The result is good. Then we also you.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So this SM Toke classifier for class category. Seven video classes in this data set there are 1776 images in seven classes, faces, buildings, trees, cars, phones, bikes and books. We use 10 fault training and testing. And we use same features, but this in the future. Vector the dimension of feature vector is 1000.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
This is the result based on SIFT features. This is only based on individual feature Sift features. You can find this is the true labels. True labels and this is expected with some. The ten runs together 10 foot with some of them together and got this table. We found in some cases, such As for this one is not not good. For this one is good. This is not good. And for the fence it is similar some errors.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Then we use the moment feature cause a similar result. And the moment feature is. I water land safe feature.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
This is based on the. Concatenated features. It's a little bit better. And this is.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Just ask them to care. Finally, we compare them.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Based on overall accuracy. That means we. Choose. All the dialogue. Elements sum of sum, sum them together and divided all the images. And this is the rich. This is rich. Photos saved this for the moment is for the concatenated and this falls SM to can we also found the SVM to care? Can got better result.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
OK, conclusion and future work. Including after we integrated. Two classified together. It can be used for the two feature or two kernels, and we also developed the faster implementation implementation based on argumented language method. We found the. We can get better result, got improvement of performance. The future work we will continue to do is for the first one is for the theoretical. And simulation study for the SM 2K and try to find. More about accent. OK, the second one is we will do some more data experiments. And so the one we will combine more features or close and try to. And make. Make make it more useful. OK, that's all. Alright, so in boosting and travel methods you usually think that you want your classifiers to becoming someone. Do you have any insight into why? Yes, actually. I can't do this. Result based on both here and there. Trying to use these two features and other more features and try to select the best features and make the linear combination and found the best classifier. But in his mastered, the computing is very huge becausw the number and the high dimensional 'cause the dimensional dimension of the feature vectors is very high and different type and the computing is very hard. He said maybe one week or two weeks for the computing and it's very difficult and actually for our basic idea and before we. Did this work? We have trying to combine these two features by CCA and then you save. SVM we have tried used CCA to compile to different features and try to get the mapping and combine them together in. New features and try to make better result. We found after we did that, the result is better, but CCA actually is based on. Is a Wan optimization problem and get two directions, 1 for the first feature matrix, another for the second feature feature matrix causes two this tool matching and try to do that. We found for the KC is 1 optimization problem for SVM is another optimization problem. So we think maybe we can combine these two in one. Optimization problem, maybe you can get the more optimized. Solution, that's the basic idea. After we done this experiment we found this is very good and specially for the difficult cases for the classification. Maybe I think maybe this method is more robust or more efficient for the very difficult data set. Based on the assumption that both views contain the information that you want, but possibly containing information of the different kinds, so by sort of forcing them to be the same in focusing on subspace. Did you just try just training experience with the output this year? Did you try training this year on the output is BMS. Trying on what to eat. Yes. Yes, speeches. Yes, actually we've. Actually we try when I use Apple Care to dissatisfaction. If not, I'm sure. Distance from after this is 1 optimization problem, but after we train it we can go to tool. One is based on which one another is based on picture 2 and we we have compared this tool. Only based on one the result. No good, even worse than. As I am only based on SVM based on this one feature. So how did you combine? This is. I have shown that. Yes. We just average them. For each test. Samples. Data is equal half. Just average. Recently we have a linear risky feature spaces we train Pennsylvania seems like that and then we combined with the new SBA would be fatal results. That signal is being handled things. Results. Different ways. Different. Still study provisions. We also are able to train enormously more examples. It looks like it's still the case to stay with the same number. And you got approved questions. OK, let's dance.
