So this is the first technical talk intro to semantic web and will start at the start. People don't know what the semantic web is. Some people will tell you I don't know your name, but at the back web 3.0 was yeah. So for some of you, it might just be the research area that your supervisor is into and that you're there for into, but that you might not know so much about in your heart or learn about. Why is this semantic web? The data that we have on the web we're struggling to make sense of it, so we can call out the great wave of data. So first of all, human genome. the US Library of Congress have a huge archive of data. The Sloan Digital Sky Survey is mapping out the night Sky. This is the NASA Center for Climate simulation. Large Hadron Collider looking for the Higgs boson? So that's a lot of a lot of data, right? OK, So what problem does it solve is also valid. And so in terms of personal answer, as per the introduction from John, I'm in a postdoc in Darien, Galway. Ingredients must be available in the local supermarkets. So the ingredients up all put together and bought and prepared for the dessert. In total is for all the recipe sites in the Google results for all the dessert recipes in the recipe side. If the dessert recipe looks delicious. Then for all ingredients in the dessert recipe, we have to see if it contains wheat or lemon or lime and we have to check the shops to see if the ingredients are available or if they're expensive. So we're going to talk a lot about music content such as music and artist metadata, about review content, and about visual content. So in terms of semantic web foundations, what we can see or what we can't see unfortunately, but OK, so you see some lines going up, at least is the growth of the Internet, and so from 100 million users in 96, I think it was up to 2.37 billion users today. OK, so on the web there's a wealth of information on the web, but currently it's targeted towards humans as the end users. So in terms of all the billions of documents that are online at the moment, it's difficult to automate automatically automatically retrieve them to extract the information from them, and to combine particularly combining information in a meaningful way is very difficult on the web at the moment. So as said before. It would be better if we could publish machine readable information data on the web and formulate questions in a way that can be understood by machine. So in terms of this web of data or making a transition from web of documents to web of data, current web is this is a web page or document. But let's say we have to sort out Web 3.0 first, so we have 1.0 is just about the initial formation of the web. Hypertext Markup Language has tags like title, Link, image and so forth that you can use to render web pages. We have the UI's uniform resource identifiers which you would be familiar with. This is the core of the semantic Web, in particular, as opposed to just what six? It's all annotated RDF, which is the basic data model. That is not really a cake at all. As relationship lead singer to Boston, is it this Boston or is it this Boston we have ambiguity. They enable linking which will be discussed next by charge soon. Yeah The Beatles, OK, and we say that it's the same as this out DRI, which means that these two your eyes are what's called coreference. OK, so angle brackets for your eyes quotes for literals. And that directed label graph conceptually is there is a link from this subject to an object with an edge that's labeled with the predicate OK. That's why sets of RDF triples are often called RDF graphs. Painful so black nodes can group related information, but their use is often discouraged. So forth, so Turtle is a human, quite a nice human readable syntax for RDF, and when that will try to work with as much as possible so we have prefixes. So when multiple statements are abbreviated to the same subject or when multiple consecutive statements have the same subject, we can use a semicolon. First thing is that RDF is not exotic XML. Properties denote relationships, some examples. New terms should only be defined when you can't find existing ones OK, and that's a key point of that was like it sounds quite obvious, but I think that was really something that people didn't realize until 2000 and 3004. Um, some common for calories include friend of a friend for personal information, Dublin Core for describing metadata about documents semantically interlinked online communities for representing forums and boards, and people having membership on such sites. Music ontology. We've seen examples of we'll see more examples of Scots, which is more meta vocabularies for describing taxonomies of information. Check out this one linked open vocabularies sometime that index is a lot of the metadata and information about vocabularies on the web and the last one is from the linked Data Incubator Group. Jewel way of defining vocabularies.