[0.0s - 29.0s]
So my ultimate goal is to write a good research paper one day, but I think it will take a few years. But to start with today. So this is the first technical talk intro to semantic web and will start at the start. This talk will take 45 minutes or so and then Jared is going to take over with introduction to link data. So we'll start with the big.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Which is the big question everyone is asking, which is what is the semantic web so. Volunteers. What is this nightclub? Yep. An extension to the regular web OK. Visible instructions with approachable OK. The goal is to build up. Martha isn't actually OK, so smart agents and Web 3.0 let's say, OK, any other answers. Anyone disagree with that? People don't know what the semantic web is. To clarify, I don't want to say OK.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So the projector isn't great, so the images might not be so good. But one answer he typically get is that the semantic web is a machine readable web. It's Tim Berners Lee's vision of the semantic Web, based on the Scientific American article from 2001 or so, I believe.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Another answer is that somehow benevolent machines, intelligent agents as you will trying to make sense and reach out to humans and trying to make sense of the web and give them back answers and so forth.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Some people will tell you that it's a bunch of standards, the so-called semantic web standards, including RDF owl, RDF, Sparkle and Rif OK will talk about these today except for if.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Um, other people tell you that it's some sort of cake or there's things in layers and there's stuff in them and there's some layers to the side and it's cake. OK, some people will tell you that the cake is treaty and it has a little pillar here, which is linked data. So separate from the Semantic Web Treaty Jenga thing going on, and other people will tell you that it's just Jenga gone wrong. That is not really a cake at all. OK, so that's another answer, pasa.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Some people will tell you that it's complex ontologies. I hope you can all read this. I hope you're all taking notes feverishly. OK, so some people attending this complex ontologies. This is just a snippet of the semantics of the direct semantics of Al two interpretations, which is great for machines because it has a formal semantics of formal meaning that can be stay away from that that can be processed automatically by machines, but it's actually not great for humans. Is pretty difficult to understand for us. Normal people, OK?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Some people will tell you that it's free and open data about breaking down the silos, and you know, interlinking all the data and the different sites on the web where people can export their content from different social networks, for example, and that all the data is linked on the web. I hope you can see the images, they are quite OK I guess, but.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Other people tell you that it's about linking stuff, so get all these datasets together, create bubbles, start drawing lines between them, start mapping and aligning and linking stuff. OK, so this is the link data view, specifically it's another.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Perspective. Another perspective is that it's about naming everything. Assigning your eyes to everything. So everything as you arrive this talk as you or I. I have you arrived this microphone as your eye and they're all interrelated somehow OK.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Some people will tell you I don't know your name, but at the back web 3.0 was yeah. So Salvador is it so OK so. Will practice pronunciation later offline maybe, but as so some people tell you that it's Web 3.0 where there's a natural progression from where you have PC's that weren't connected to Web 1.0 or they were connected with the Internet Web 1.0, which was the original HTML Web Web 2.0 which was to do with social, web and web. 3.0 is the web of semantics OK?

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Some people will tell you it's a buzzword, so if you go into the semantic Web Wikipedia article, that being Wikipedia, of course you can always trust it. It says that it's a category buzzword. OK, so some people will tell you that semantic Web is a buzzword and all.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So for some of you, it might just be the research area that your supervisor is into and that you're there for into, but that you might not know so much about in your heart or learn about. OK, so actually can't make out that image. Can you know? Does it look strange? I don't think you can make it at, which is unfortunate. There was a joke associated with it, but it's not going to work then. So it's essentially a girl in a pool. But the images this way, so if you turn your head to the right, you can see actually it kind of makes sense. So when you first see it makes no sense. If you tilt your head to the right. It does so hopefully we can do that today for you with the semantic web. OK.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So a better question than what is the semantic web is probably, why is the semantic web. So anyone want to try answer? Why is this semantic web? Machines. The next. The knowledge from. So and in turn, so you're saying that there's lots of data out there and it's not structured enough and we're having difficulty making sense of it. Yeah, OK, it's good answer. Any other takers? The artificial intelligence. OK, because the data is too unstructured. Let's say any other answers later takers OK.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So, um, why is the semantic web? So this is the great wave. It's a famous piece of art from Japan. I think I should have read the Wikipedia article so I could tell you an interesting story about this art, but I know very little about it other than you see these fishermen are struggling with the waves and it's a little bit like that at the moment, but the.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The data that we have on the web we're struggling to make sense of it, so we can call out the great wave of data. So if we take Wikipedia for example, we can say that Wikipedia is 5.9 terabytes of data and that was an old stump January 2010. So just for the next few slides, I'm going to use one wiki as a standard unit of measure for a lot of data, so it makes more sense, because people don't know what terabytes and petabytes in the auto bites and so forth are OK.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So first of all, human genome. We all of human genomes. So each human genome, the genome sequencing project was obviously a huge thing back. I don't want to start 10 years ago or so. So the human genome represents approximately 4 gigabytes per person, which is about a HD movie. If you download it. So that's about 0.0006 wiki per person, OK?

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So that's context. the US Library of Congress have a huge archive of data. 235 terabytes archived of just general interest, human knowledge, and so forth. About 40 wiki's OK.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
The Sloan Digital Sky Survey is mapping out the night Sky. They generate 200 gigabytes a day, which is about 12. Wikipedia's here. OK, so we're going up and.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Kill. This is the NASA Center for Climate simulation. OK, they're trying to simulate climate and temperature readings from different locations. They are generating. They've currently archived 5600. Wikipedia's OK.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Facebook. Facebook is currently indexing about or creating or generating or housing 782. Wikipedia is a year, I'm sure all of that content is fantastic and really integral to furthering the advancement of mankind. But OK 782 Wikipedia as per year.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Large Hadron Collider looking for the Higgs boson? I guess most of you or all of you will have heard of it. It's generating 2542 Wikipedias per year, OK?

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Google were up to 7.3 million Wikipedia's prior his processing, based on January 2010 estimates.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And the Internet. 220 million Wikipedia as per year are being were being transferred or projected to be transferred on the Internet. So that's a lot of a lot of data, right? So how can we make sense of it essentially, OK?

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So if you think of it in terms of a societal problem, what you see is that the rate of rate at which data is being produced is far, far greater than the rate at which the data can be understood. OK, and that's that would be my pitch for why we need a semantic web OK, which is related to the two other topics earlier, which is that we need to structure the data we need to get some semantics in there and we need to be more readily automatically processable.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So we need these benevolent machines to come along and make sense of all this data for us, OK?

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So any questions so far is quite generic bitch. OK. So what problem specifically does it solve? That's still quite, you know, abstracters like how can I help or what's what's this all about? Or you know I don't see a concrete problem here. You just named a bunch of things that had lots of data coming out of them. OK, So what problem does it solve is also valid.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And so in terms of personal answer, as per the introduction from John, I'm in a postdoc in Darien, Galway. I started there in 2005 as an intern and I was starting on this semantic Web stuff as well and I didn't really know what it was all about it and why it was like, OK, I was looking through the old standards. For example, I didn't know what was what was going on so.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So essentially I had this problem that I was in that area because I inherited from my supervisor and I didn't really know what the semantic web was, but. So.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Then I encountered the desert problem. So this is my house and Gallery. In 2005 I was sharing it with some people and Jen and Peter. I went home and they look pretty annoyed, were pretty sort of impatient. What they were trying to do was use Google or use the web to find a desert. They're going to a house party, but they have very specific requirements for this dessert.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
OK, So what they wanted was OK. Must be a desert. Must be citrus free because of a person going to the party. Was allergic to citrus. OK. Must be gluten free because Jan was the celiac. OK, so celiac means you can't eat gluten, which rules out a lot of other desserts. Ingredients must be available in the local supermarkets. OK, there's no kumquats and our local supermarket. So no kumquats. OK. Must be cheap. So the ingredients up all put together and bought and prepared for the dessert. Must be cheap, because their students and it must be delicious. Of course, OK, so that's the most important one. So how do you go about solving that problem? How would you go about solving that problem right now today on the web?

[899.0s - 928.0s]
So essentially what they were doing was going to Google typing in dessert recipes. Finding a recipe site going into different recipes, finding, for example, this one contains lemons and oranges back out of that when they probably should have clicked in the 1st place, because it's very clearly got lemon in it. Here's another one which is sticky toffee pudding. It's got dates in it or dates. OK, so are there dates in the local supermarket? How much do they cost? There are go to the local supermarket website you find OK, there's dates there. These ones look cheap so forth. Are they gluten free? You end up on wiki Answers or Yahoo answers. Probably not the most reliable source, and then you say OK, there OK are actually you find that yeah, it's no good for celiacs. So you end up back at the recipe website when you've exhausted that recipe website and you end up going back to Google. OK, so the algae?

[928.0s - 957.0s]
In total is for all the recipe sites in the Google results for all the dessert recipes in the recipe side. If the dessert recipe looks delicious. Then for all ingredients in the dessert recipe, we have to see if it contains wheat or lemon or lime and we have to check the shops to see if the ingredients are available or if they're expensive. So essentially what you have is a huge amount of so if suitable to the candidates. OK, what you end up with is a huge amount of manual effort on the part of the people who are using the web to solve this problem. OK, so. Yeah. Two of them and they paralyzed. They could. I didn't want to get into optimizations of this because there's also a possibility for pruning here and backtracking here and so forth. But yeah, could definitely be optimized. It's naive version of that algorithm, OK? So what you'll notice though in this algorithm is that the only thing that's subjective or that really requires any input from a human. In the ideal case is if it looks delicious or not OK, so everything else is automatic, everything else is just based on a list of criteria that could be specified to Caritive Lee, but the only thing that isn't is, or that Compiz, whether it looks delicious or not OK.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So if we had this cool magical semantic web, we could just ask the magical semantic web for all this stuff. That safe cheap local dessert recipes OK, and then Jen and Peter could decide if it looks delicious or not. In the ideal case, we're a little bit far away from implementing that at the moment this function is proving difficult to implement, but. Yep.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
So in terms of how it could be solved, or have the semantic web relates to it, here you see there's all these different websites and actually see what's being displayed here is being produced by databases. It's not from prose text, but it's actually already in databases. We see something about dates here. OK, you can't see that image, but it's just Jenn and Peter live in Galway. This is the local supermarket. We can say, OK, there's dates and dates available in the supermarket as well. We see the waste of the the description of the product. We see the costs and the quantity and so forth. We see information about allergies, so all the information is there for them to make an informed decision or for even a machine to automatically process it. But what would be needed would be to link all these different bits and pieces together. And to have a common data format that we can represent all the different parts of data that we need for solving this problem. OK, if you don't recognize these icons, it's RDF icons, so I'm not going to talk about them quite yet, but soon. We want to pull all that back in together and we want to say OK.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
This is our one graph we can abstract from the sources if we want. We can also track the problems if we wish, but we have one graph of data and that graph can be used to help solve our problem and in terms of the graph, I'm not going to go into detail on this slide, but what we have is OK, three different sources. This is based on their personal information. In their context, this is from the supermarket and this is from the recipe site. OK, So what we want is these sources of data on the web to produce data in an interoperable. Common format, which we call RDF and it should be graph structured OK and we should be able to link the different parts of that to integrate the graph and say for example that there's a relationship between gluten and celiac, which is an obvious or we should be able to model that. So once we have all the links together we can integrate it into one big craft and we have all our data integrated from one big source from different sources, and then each this graph is just composed to fax Tesco, Outlook, Galway for example. Sticky toffee pudding ingredient soda and we can start to process this graph and look for answers that we we want, OK?

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
So um, is the semantic web just about dessert? Obviously not.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So throughout this trip to the next few days, we're going to be talking quite a lot about music, based on something barriers put together. So we're going to talk a lot about music content such as music and artist metadata, about review content, and about visual content. I'm transitioning into the Euclid slides that are online.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So in terms of the music scenario, what we have is a set of different sources providing different information about music online and essentially what we have here is a wrapper. We're bringing that all into RDF. Then there's a layer where we integrate and do some cleansing, and we put that integrated data set into a store. OK, there is something called the sparkle endpoint over that data set, which is a way of querying the data set and then there will be methods for visualizing it and for producing or DFA and so forth. So parts of this architecture will be exploring. I will be using the music example as a running example through a lot of the slides.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
OK.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
So in terms of semantic web foundations, what we can see or what we can't see unfortunately, but OK, so you see some lines going up, at least is the growth of the Internet, and so from 100 million users in 96, I think it was up to 2.37 billion users today. And here we see as well the rise in traffic. OK, so up to 27,000 petabytes per month at the moment.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
OK, so on the web there's a wealth of information on the web, but currently it's targeted towards humans as the end users. So with sites like Wikipedia and Google, it really assume that there is a person is going to go there and it's going to search for this stuff. It's going to find the document is going to read through the document and figure out what it means and apply their own context and common sense and background knowledge to understand and solve the task. OK, which is a lot of effort required on the part of the human user.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
So in terms of all the billions of documents that are online at the moment, it's difficult to automate automatically automatically retrieve them to extract the information from them, and to combine particularly combining information in a meaningful way is very difficult on the web at the moment. The only way to combine information is for you to go to the different sites and pull together the information manually. So as said before. It would be better if we could publish machine readable information data on the web and formulate questions in a way that can be understood by machine. OK, this is sort of the semantic web core and we'll talk a bit about that today. So the vision and was first named by I think Tim Berners Lee in 2001 is not a web of documents anymore, but a web of data, OK?

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
So in terms of this web of data or making a transition from web of documents to web of data, current web is this is a web page or document. OK, between them there's links. You can follow the links between the documents. OK, but we're moving towards a web of data we want to move towards a web of data where the primary primary assets are things that thing can be this presenter thing. This talk this summer school so forth. And there's type links between those things, OK?

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
So again, this is sort of seen as an evolution of the web, so from the PC era up to Web 1.0, Web 2.0, Web 3.0 and Web 4.0 sounds a bit speculative. But let's say we have to sort out Web 3.0 first, so we have 1.0 is just about the initial formation of the web. Web 2.0 is about participant participatory web about social web people being connected and contributing back data. Web 3.0 is about the semantic web about connecting all the data and the knowledge. And Web 4.0 is about connecting intelligence, which figuratively could mean that agents collaborate when they're trying to solve a task and communicate amongst themselves as well.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
OK, so in terms of the semantic web, it is built upon existing web technology standards, so the first one, which I'm sure you've probably lots of you've already heard of, is HTML which is. Hypertext Markup Language has tags like title, Link, image and so forth that you can use to render web pages. OK, actually this is sort of what we're trying to phase out a little bit or markup in the semantic Web, because this started content isn't very easily machine processable. Next, we have the Hypertext Transfer protocol HTTP, and that still remains very much a core of the semantic web in terms of puts and gets and posts and restful principles are lightweight restful principles, at least. OK, so that's still very much a way of transferring data on the semantic web.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
That remains, we also have in terms of naming things I mentioned before about Semantic Web could be seen as naming everything. We have the UI's uniform resource identifiers which you would be familiar with. You probably encountered like these sort of things. LW Ryan Mail to you or I tell tell Nash and also here is the DV pedia. This one is taken from the semantic Web itself. OK, so your eyes?

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Inter

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
This is the core of the semantic Web, in particular, as opposed to just what six? Well, it's being extended from an we have. We have this stack which I was making sort of fun of earlier, but it can be useful sometimes, so this is by Berners Lee. This is the 2006 edition. OK, So what we see is your eyes, which we already mentioned and unique code as a way of just encoding character data XML, which is a sort of a syntax for this and RDF OK. Actually if I click here.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
It's all annotated RDF, which is the basic data model. We're going to talk about. On top of that, then we have more and more complex things. We have something for querying. We have something for representing ontologies in semantics, RDF, SNL with something for rules with something for unifying logic which no one knows what that means or proof no one really knows what that means and trust. Who knows, OK? But the idea of unifying logic is combine these things below it so that you have one flat thing across those three things there. The proof is about saying, for example, OK, this recipe isn't suitable for celiacs. Why is that? Where did you get this from generating a way of validating the answers you get and trust is about which sources do you trust. For example, Wikipedia says or the FDA says that a certain ingredients has a certain allergy associated with it. So if we go out all the stuff, that's really vague that one that one and this one we can get rid of that as well because XML is no longer a syntactic basis for the semantic web, OK? Pendant on XML data types, except for XML data types, but it's better definitely not to not to say that XML is a syntactic basis for RDF I think. What we're left with sorry is a couple of standards here. The primary ones we're not going to talk much about riff, but we're going to talk about or DFS. I'll sparkle and RDF and the core of all of this.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Suck Bing or DF itself, so I presume hands up who hasn't heard of RDF or hasn't dealt authority F before. Barry your confession to make. So you've all seen or DF has anyone not seen? I don't have to ask this question, 'cause if someone hasn't seen and there's no one put up their hands and they will put up their hands. So OK, I have an introduction to RDF here. I'm just going through quite quickly. OK, so if you want to ask a question or you don't understand, just put your hand up. Otherwise I'm going to really fly through it, OK?

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
OK. So RDF is the basic basis layer of the semantic of layer cake, subject predicate object, new to anyone know OK subject relationship predicate object Tom Schultz's relationship lead singer to Boston OK what does that mean?

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Hey, why do we so for RDF we use your eyes to identify things. Why do we use your eyes to identify things? Tom shells. As relationship lead singer to Boston, is it this Boston or is it this Boston we have ambiguity. Problem is he delete singer of the city Boston? I don't even know what that would look like intuitively. As humans we can easily say that it's we can probably even just actually, but I can't is attacker. But we can say OK, that it's more likely to be the one on the left and the one on the right for all the background common sense reasons that humans have an machines don't OK, so your eyes just help to solve an ambiguity. They enable linking which will be discussed next by charge soon. And they also enable dereferencing, which allows you to look up those names with HTTP and get some useful information back in general to speak about that, and in 1015 minutes time.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
So in terms of the syntax is OK, so we'll go briefly through some N Triple style turtle style syntax because it will be useful just to have a grip on that for parts of the practical aspects of the school. Here we see again subject predicate object. We have a UI for an artist. I believe this is. Yeah The Beatles, OK, and we say that it's the same as this out DRI, which means that these two your eyes are what's called coreference. They refer to the same thing. But we'll get into that later. Here we have another triple, except for this time it's a literal value. OK, so angle brackets for your eyes quotes for literals.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
RDF graphs are composed of white. Why are they called RDF graphs well?

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
If you think about these triples that can be seen as forming a directed labeled graph.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
And that directed label graph conceptually is there is a link from this subject to an object with an edge that's labeled with the predicate OK. That's why sets of RDF triples are often called RDF graphs. Ann. What's meant by that is that directed labeled graphs. There are some exceptions to RDF datasets. You're not suppose that aren't really true direct labeled graphs, because this predicate can also be a vertex, so it's not really a true director labeled graph, but it's sufficient for most purposes to think of it that way.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
So as an example, a very simple example of an RDF graph using these fold ugly, horrible your eyes. What we see is the same stuff we had before this UI which identifies The Beatles is the same as this other UI which is from thedbpedia.org domain and it has a name which is the builds OK and that's a plain string. And we can extend the great thing about graph data is.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
So we can always extend the graph. We can add new edges in any direction we want. We could link this back to that. We could link this to this. You only restriction is that we can't have literal in subject position at the moment and these have to be your eyes, but we can link. We can extend this graph as we like and we can add more loads, more edges and so forth.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
OK, so blank notes. I didn't mention black notes and I guess most you know already after. You probably already thinking. What about blank nodes? Not to get into too much detail on them, but they are unidentified resources, existential variables. But essentially they're just things that you don't assign a UI to an you can group information using that. For example, this is a point you see the Longitude and its supply point from this WGS 84 vocabulary which defines all these URLs for describing locations. OK, but you don't really. You don't assign a name to this point because there could be many such points, and assigning a UI to each such point would be. Painful so black nodes can group related information, but their use is often discouraged. The reason why it's discouraged as if I want to link particularly in like data. For example, if I want to link to this point, I can't link to a blank node. OK, there are other problems because existential semantics of black nodes causes a lot of problems. But that's not important. OK, we're gonna. So here we see all these full. Your eyes are kind of annoying, specially for didaktik, yeah. For queries in sparkle, blank nodes can be always rewritten to use kind of standard variables like distinguished variables or non distinguished variables. So I'm like no just means in a sparkle query you mean sparkle specifically, or in sparkle. It just means that something exists at that position, but you could always test that by just using a normal variable. The only reason why it can be useful sometimes is just as a shortcut syntax so you can use these angle brackets and turtle to really. Give quite an expressive query very quickly, but otherwise not very useful now. There are other uses in construct clauses and stuff like that, but it's not really enough, not very important. You don't have to. You know. Yeah, except for in the constructs there's a way in the construct. If you put a blank node in the construct clause every time the constructs every solution that's used to bind to that you're familiar with this truck laws. The blank node will change every time you bind into that. So for every solution that binds into the construct laws, you'll get a different blank node every time. Otherwise blank nodes can be pretty much rewritten into in the query to normal query variables. OK.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
So I'm going through the turtle syntax, which we will be using a lot for practical examples going through quite quickly we.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Talk before about all these horrible you arise, but we see that these your eyes have a lot of redundancy because the namespace that part up to the hash is the same in all cases. So we could abbreviate that in the data and smaller data is more readable. It's more compressible and.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
So forth, so Turtle is a human, quite a nice human readable syntax for RDF, and when that will try to work with as much as possible so we have prefixes. Is there anyone not familiar with the who's familiar with the trial syntax? OK, so we have two or three who didn't put their hands up OK, so this is key. First thing is, there are prefixes and there's a base, and these allow you to abbreviate the UI's using your data.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
So turtle. You can abbreviate here that you see this triple is abbreviated because it's missing the start and actually this is appended onto the base. You right here, OK. Also there's a shortcut for RDF type, which is a OK and that says that this instance is a member of this class, which will talk about a little bit later. OK, so the full form or this is the short form here and this is the full form here. Oftentimes will just forget about the basis and the prefixes and you can take them as assumed. So Mo oftentimes on the semantic web and link data. People are very particular about their prefix. Here you could change ammo to XY zed. As long as you changed it here as well. It wouldn't make a difference, but people are very particular to use prefixes consistently, so this is the Mo stands for Music Ontology. Anytime you CMO in a prefix or an example, it's going to be the music ontology and so forth. OK.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
So when multiple statements are abbreviated to the same subject or when multiple consecutive statements have the same subject, we can use a semicolon. So here we see we don't have the subject predicate object structure anymore, But essentially this object in this predicate inherit this subject OK because of this. And if we have a comma, it means that the terms after that have the same predicate and subject. So for this one for example, the full triple is this subject this predicate? In this object. OK, so that's, for sharing the same subject and predicate and; For sharing the same. Subject.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
OK, there's also syntax for creating data type literals, which are literals with special types of, meaning this one is a duration. Can I read that sorry. Help PT. So 3 minutes 48 seconds. What's the PT? OK. OK. OK. Play time OK. Duration in XML. Yeah, pointed time no I I'm not sure about PT stands for but the time the datetime datatypes in XSD have all this weird syntax like for Gregorian calendar dates and so forth. I'm not sure. So in any case, it's a literal with special meaning, and here we see two literals as well. In these times, this time they have language tags. OK, this one is English and this one is punch, which is German. And you have to have one or the other. OK, so you can't have both. It's either this or it's either this. OK, so you either have language type or you have a data type. Fish OK.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
So already FML. I'm not going to go through all of the syntax of RDF. XML would be extremely relieved to hear just one slide. First thing is that RDF is not exotic XML. OK, people tend to conflate RDF, an RDF XML and people tend to think that particularly this is from roots back in the day. The only syntax for RDF really was already XML and was part of the core standard in the primer for RDF, and people confused RDF XML for DF. OK, so that's no longer the case, or DF is triples. What we saw their subject predicate object using your eyes. Using literals in the object position may be blank nodes. RDF XML is just one syntax for that. There are many other syntaxes that don't require XML and we just saw one which is terrible. So RDF XML is widespread because it was the earliest standard syntax, but it's not very nice and we're not going to talk about it. OK, so well, OK, no, no, we're not, so that's already XML there, it's pretty horrible.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
OK, so. Just the couple more slides before hand overcharged vocabularies. When we're using your eyes to describe lots of things, oftentimes will be reusing the same your eyes over and over again. So for example, if I want to describe myself in an RDF document, I needed your eye for person to say that I am a person. OK, instead of creating the same your eyes over and over and over again so that we have million or 6 billion different your eyes for person we have on the semantic web and link data. We have. Vocabularies and vocabularies are definitions or collections of defined classes and properties. Classes are things in RDF that share some similarities. For example music artists. 4th Person Geopoint location often talked before about how this class instance and distinction is artificial and I partially agree, but it's still a useful concept to have. So this music artist is not quite clear exactly. It's a made up thing is something that has to be agreed upon. There's no like universal notion of music artists. If I play, I don't know spoons or something like that in my spare time with my music artist. I don't know. OK, so also for 4th person doesn't include. Does it include people who are dead? Doesn't include people who are like Sherlock Holmes who are infection? OK, these sort of questions, but in any case you can group things together and you can say that they are within a certain class. Properties denote relationships, some examples. Member to say that a person is a member of this is from the Music Ontology is a member of some band for name, RDF, type and so forth OK. Terms from well known for Calvary should be reused, so we don't need 6 billion euros for person, but instead we can use this one from the vocabulary which has gotten traction, which lots of people already use. New terms should only be defined when you can't find existing ones OK, and that's a key point of that was like it sounds quite obvious, but I think that was really something that people didn't realize until 2000 and 3004. There is a certain group of people publishing data this way, but other people were creating their own ontologies from scratch. They're leaving their hard drive, or they were zipping them, and they were putting them online in a directory somewhere and no one would ever look at them again. OK, so yeah. OK. Duration always hesitate, don't want it done OK. Things that you have all prime elements, so you have hours many times, seconds. OK, OK, I see OK so.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
Um, some common for calories include friend of a friend for personal information, Dublin Core for describing metadata about documents semantically interlinked online communities for representing forums and boards, and people having membership on such sites. Music ontology. We've seen examples of we'll see more examples of Scots, which is more meta vocabularies for describing taxonomies of information. OK, so these are some very well known for categories in the semantic web. Just to list them.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
There's a much bigger list if you're ever looking for terms indexed in these places, so this is a this is just a wiki link. OK where people have edited the document to add lots of vocabularies. This is a nice light actually. Check out this one linked open vocabularies sometime that index is a lot of the metadata and information about vocabularies on the web and the last one is from the linked Data Incubator Group. OK, so you can follow those links from the Euclid slides.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
In terms of describing the data, what uses for calories aside from just reusing your eyes well? Typically vocabularies have some description and that can take that takes 2 parts. 1st is an informal human readable documentation and the 2nd is a former machine readable documentation. You can't have one without the other. OK, so there's no way you can just create an OWL ontology, for example, and leave it at that if people don't understand how to use your term, they're going to use it incorrectly in all sorts of nasty ways. OK, so an example just of. Jewel way of defining vocabularies. Here we see a human readable description of festival is blah blah blah blah blah. It tells you specifically what kind of thing is meant. So for example a festival might not just be a party. OK, but it's really meant in terms of a musical artistic event. OK and here we see just a brief description that a machine can get onto OK and that's described using RDF's. I will cover that later, OK?

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
So later on, recover how the machine readable documentation is done.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
Or your first and in the Web Ontology language.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
Chan will also cover a sparkle for query. I.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
And so there's some acknowledgments on the slide. Ferrari, I guess you did. Most of the work in the UK side, so should knowledge you. I I've also remix them. Maribel maribel discount, here is flexible. OK, so so some of the slides were taken from the Euclid slide.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
So Next up is Jared to talk about introduction to link data and Yep so.
