We have a training phase where we select a set of images for training images. The aggregate these 10 land cover classes into two super classes they developed superclass and an undeveloped superclass. First we turn term the ground truth fraction map, which indicates the percent developed for each one by 1 kilometer tile. And then we produce a ground truth binary classification map produced by simply applying a 50% threshold to the fraction map and these are shown in black and white, where white represents developed regions. First we download almost a million images for the study area from the Flickr data set, and the distribution is shown in log scale to left here. So I've described to you the feature extraction how we train a classifier, which we're going to apply an individual images, which will then the labels will then be aggregated at the one by 1 kilometer tile level. This will be I'll be describing in the experiments how we derive our predicted fraction in binary classification Maps. Were first our fraction develop map is simply the fraction of images classified as developed in each tile. Our predicted binary classification Maps are produced drive from this by simply applying a threshold to the fraction map and again are black and white white showing developed areas. Weighted by visually comparing them with our predicted map, the comparing the predicted Maps with the ground truth Maps. We also perform quantitative. Evaluation using our against the ground truth by for the binary predicted binary classification Maps by considering the number of tiles with the same label developed or undeveloped, and we evaluate our predicted fraction development by computing the correlation coefficient over all the tiles. The root mean squared difference are quantitative results that we present our only computed for the tiles for which we have both flicker angiographic images. We investigate the relative importance of photographer intent for the training versus target set. So this training set consists of 2740 Flickr images, which have been manually labeled as either depicting a scene that is developed or undeveloped using a heuristic below. Quantitative results obviously presenting these results in tables like this which indicate the training set, which in this case is the manually labeled Flickr set. Presented using the correlation coefficient or the mean absolute difference or the MSD and so first, here we see that using the manually labeled training set our results for the, at least for the binary classification, it the performance is better than chance. In particular, are labeled training set is constructed and fully automated fashion by selecting 2 images at random from tiles with four or more images. And these tiles. Using the geographic images as the target set always outperforms using the Flickr images, regardless of where the training set comes from, and this allows us to conclude that photographer intent is more important for target for the target set than the training set. In particular, we investigate with removing images with faces, improves the results and the motivation. Here is photographs or people are less likely to be geographically informative, especially in close in portraits. So at least in this case, filtering out images with faces from the target set does not result in improved performance. Contributed photo collections can be considered as a form of EGI. In particular, we've shown that Maps of developed and undeveloped regions automatically generated using Flickr, and geographic images are shown to be similar to ground truth Maps, and again, this is despite using very simple image features. We showed that we are weakly labeled training set outperforms manual labeled training set. This has clear benefits for training classifiers. We've shown that photographer intent is significant, especially for the target set, and while this is restricts what can be used as target sets, it does pose the interesting research question. Obvious ones include using improved image features such as just features integrating the textual annotations. Extending this to additional land cover use classes and integrating spatial models into when we are driving our predicted Maps by exploiting things such as to Bill's first law of geography. I'll end with acknowledgments to funding sources to student Nathan Graves for implementing the Edge histogram descriptors. The visual content of georeferenced images can be used to derived Maps of what is where on the surface of the Earth. Our motivation for doing this is threefold. First, such collections are becoming increasingly available. Derived from remote sensing imagery, it's much more difficult to determine land use or what that cover is used for. Is a community contributed collection called what I'll refer to as Geograph and these are images from the geograph Britain and Ireland Project which aims to collect geographically representative photographs and information for every square kilometre. In this work, approximate sensing is to see whether we can use the visual content of georeferenced photos to produce land use land cover Maps. What I'll be presenting today is on the simpler problem of binary classification into developed and undeveloped regions. So we're not the first researchers to consider location information and georeferenced photo collections. In particular, researchers have used them to annotate novel images to geolocate novel images, or to organize the collections themselves. However, we feel we're the first to use the collections to infer what is where on the surface of the Earth on a large scale.