[0.0s - 29.0s]
So good morning, I'm Shawn Newsome and I'll be presenting work today with Mike that's done in collaboration with my graduate student Daniel Long on what we're terming proximate sensing or inferring what is where from georeferenced photo collections, where with the University of California Merced, which is the 10th UC campus? And since we've now been opened five years, I can no longer claim were brand new, but we're still relatively new.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So if the traditional problem of remote sensing is considered using overhead images of distant scenes to derive geographic information, such as using a satellite images to derive land cover Maps, we can see.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
For the problem of proximate sensing too, instead to be that of you instead using ground level images of close by objects and scenes in particular, what I'm showing here on the left is a mosaic of images from a contributed community contributed photo collection called the Geograph Britain and Ireland Project for 100 by 100 kilometer study region in the Southeastern UK, and now the question that we're asking is can these ground level images of close by objects and scenes be similarly used? To produce landcover Maps shown in lower right here?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So why? Why do we think this might be possible? Well, if we look a little more closely at this mosaic of images from this study region will see that the images in the top left from the London region are quite distinct from the images from a rural region in the lower right, and in particular there both. In particular, they're both representative of their geographic areas, and so we think that there's possibly interesting geographic information that can be gleaned from such image collections. So our conjecture is.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The visual content of georeferenced images can be used to derived Maps of what is where on the surface of the Earth. Our motivation for doing this is threefold. First, such collections are becoming increasingly available. Second, perhaps they can be used to derive geographic information. That's not possible through other means. For example, consider the problem of land use classification. While land cover, which is what covers the earth perhaps can be. Derived from remote sensing imagery, it's much more difficult to determine land use or what that cover is used for. Finally, we see this as an exciting new application of computer vision not only provides another context in which to apply or visit standard techniques, but could also motivate novel problems. We view the problem of proximate sense.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
As being part of the larger phenomena of geographic volunteered geographic information, which itself is part of citizen science. Vgi is a term coined by renowned geographer Michael Goodchild Child in 2007, and some instances of EGI that you might be familiar with is the Openstreetmap project or the Christmas Bird Count project.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So we consider Georeferenced community contributed photo collections such as Flickr to be another form of vgi. Let's look at the Flickr data set. In Flickr, there's currently over 100 million georeferenced items, mostly foot photographs. If we do a geographically constrained search around this hotel, will see that there's almost 100,000 Geo tagged items within a few kilometer range. The other data set here that we consider to be an example of vgi.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Is a community contributed collection called what I'll refer to as Geograph and these are images from the geograph Britain and Ireland Project which aims to collect geographically representative photographs and information for every square kilometre. Great Britain and Ireland. Almost 10,000 users have contributed almost 2 million images for the of the UK shown in the lower left. Here is a heat map of the distribution of the geographic images over the UK. In the middle is a sampling of images from a particular region and on the right is a. An example of a of an image from this collection and often the images include textual descriptions provided by the photographer. Sorry, long term object.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
In this work, approximate sensing is to see whether we can use the visual content of georeferenced photos to produce land use land cover Maps. Our initial focus and it's the work of what I'm presenting. What I'll be presenting today is on the simpler problem of binary classification into developed and undeveloped regions.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So we're not the first researchers to consider location information and georeferenced photo collections. In particular, researchers have used them to annotate novel images to geolocate novel images, or to organize the collections themselves. However, we feel we're the first to use the collections to infer what is where on the surface of the Earth on a large scale.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So let's look at an overview of our technique. We start on the left with a large collection of georeferenced community contributed photos and what we want to end up on. The right is our Maps indicating developed and undeveloped regions. We have a training phase where we select a set of images for training images. We label those images either manually or through a weakly supervised fashion, perform feature extraction, and train an image level binary class binary level image classifier. Alright, binary classifier. We then apply that classifier to a held out set of target images whose labels are aggregated at 1 by 1 kilometer kilometre tiles, and use and then produce our Maps, and these Maps are compared with ground truth Maps.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Ground truth Maps come from the land cover map 2000 to publicly available data set, which gives the percentage of 10 land cover classes for every square kilometer of the UK. We

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The aggregate these 10 land cover classes into two super classes they developed superclass and an undeveloped superclass. And from this we derive our two ground truth Maps. First we turn term the ground truth fraction map, which indicates the percent developed for each one by 1 kilometer tile. And this will be showing as as heat Maps where the values range from zero to 1. And then we produce a ground truth binary classification map produced by simply applying a 50% threshold to the fraction map and these are shown in black and white, where white represents developed regions. So these are the Maps that we want to try predict using the ground truth and the the ground level images.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Our image datasets. We have two image datasets. First we download almost a million images for the study area from the Flickr data set, and the distribution is shown in log scale to left here. And as you might expect, the Flickr to the distribution of the Flickr images are not uniform, and in particular over half of our tiles do not contain Flickr images.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The second data set is from the Geograph project we download over 100,000 images from this and the coverage here you can see is more uniform. And more complete.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Image features we extract very simple 5 dimensional edge histogram features which summarize the edges in different directions for an image. It's a global feature and this is motivated by an obvious observation.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
We perform image level classification. We label each image as being either developed or undeveloped using an SVM classifier with a Gaussian RBF kernel, 5 fold cross validation and grid search for optimal parameter selection.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So let's return to our our. That's our technique. So I've described to you the feature extraction how we train a classifier, which we're going to apply an individual images, which will then the labels will then be aggregated at the one by 1 kilometer tile level. This will be I'll be describing in the experiments how we derive our predicted fraction in binary classification Maps. I'll describe how we compare these with our ground truth Maps and also describe the effects of using either the Flickr images for the training and target images, and then the effects of. Either manual labeling or weakly supervised labeling of the training set. So first, how do we?

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Given that we've labeled images for a tile, how do we derive our predicted developed Maps? Were first our fraction develop map is simply the fraction of images classified as developed in each tile. And again, this is shown as a heat map with values ranging from zero to 1. Our predicted binary classification Maps are produced drive from this by simply applying a threshold to the fraction map and again are black and white white showing developed areas. We explore two types of thresholds. Just first a fixed threshold and we also have an adaptive threshold that we adjust so that the percentage of tiles that are labeled as developed matches that of our groundtruth incorporating some prior knowledge here. So our results can be simply coping can be qualitative, quad, qualitatively value.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Weighted by visually comparing them with our predicted map, the comparing the predicted Maps with the ground truth Maps. We also perform quantitative. Evaluation using our against the ground truth by for the binary predicted binary classification Maps by considering the number of tiles with the same label developed or undeveloped, and we evaluate our predicted fraction development by computing the correlation coefficient over all the tiles. We also compute the mean absolute difference. The root mean squared difference are quantitative results that we present our only computed for the tiles for which we have both flicker angiographic images. Approximately 39% of these. Tiles are developed so that a chance binary classification classification would be 61%. Besides merely just see.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
What what are produced Maps look like? We also investigate a set of sub questions. Including what's the difference? How? What is the difference between using a manually versus a weekly supervised set of training images? What is the effect of photographer intent and we evaluate this by comparing the Flickr and the geograph images. We investigate the relative importance of photographer intent for the training versus target set. We also investigate whether filtering out non informative images improves our results and some other experiments which I don't have time to cover in the presentation.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So first, let's look at the results of using a manually labeled training set. So this training set consists of 2740 Flickr images, which have been manually labeled as either depicting a scene that is developed or undeveloped using a heuristic below. So here again.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And as our ground truth fraction developed map, and here's the map that's generated automatically using our technique with the manually labeled Flickr training set. Again, here's our ground truth binary classification map and the predicted binary classification map, and you can see that the results the Maps the predicted Maps do indeed resemble the ground truth Maps looking at.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Quantitative results obviously presenting these results in tables like this which indicate the training set, which in this case is the manually labeled Flickr set. Manually labeled Flickr images our target set here is held out. Flickr images the size and the Constitution of our training set and then the accuracy of our predicted binary classification Maps. The overall classification rate and the average classification rate, both for the fixed threshold case and the adaptive threshold case, and then the accuracy of our predicted fraction Maps. Presented using the correlation coefficient or the mean absolute difference or the MSD and so first, here we see that using the manually labeled training set our results for the, at least for the binary classification, it the performance is better than chance.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So let's look at what happens with a weakly supervised training. In particular, are labeled training set is constructed and fully automated fashion by selecting 2 images at random from tiles with four or more images. So we have remaining tiles for the held out target set. And these tiles. These images are labeled using the majority labeled the tile in the ground truth Maps, or just propagating the label from the ground truth map to the training set. So now let's compare our quantitative results.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So in the first row we have the results with the manually labeled training set and on the 2nd row we have the results with the weakly labeled training set for the for the Flickr images and we see that the weakly labeled training set outperforms the manually labeled one, and these results are interesting because this suggests that training sets can be generated from regions for which which Maps exist and then be used to generalize to train classifiers for mapping unmapped regions.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
OK, the next subquestion we look at is what is the effect of photographer intent? And we do this by comparing the results of using the Flickr data set for producing the Maps or the geograph data set.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So again, here are the produced Maps, the ground truth. The Maps produced using Flickr images and Maps produced using geograph images, and again it's hard to just through this visual evaluation to determine whether the Flickr images of the geographic images are more effective.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
But if we look at the quantitative results again, comparing using the Flickr images for both the training and target sets versus using the geograph images, we see clearly that the. Geograph images result in improved performance and this allows us to conclude that photographer and intent is a significant factor.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
We further investigate whether photographer intent is more important for the training or the target set, and we do this by taking training and target sets from different collections. So just mix.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Things up a bit. So again, we look at our quantitative results and we see that. Using the geographic images as the target set always outperforms using the Flickr images, regardless of where the training set comes from, and this allows us to conclude that photographer intent is more important for target for the target set than the training set. A little more to say about this in the discussion at the end.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Along the lines of photographer intent, we investigate whether it's in clearly the geograph images are more effective. We investigate whether we can filter the Flickr images to make them more geographically informative. In particular, we investigate with removing images with faces, improves the results and the motivation. Here is photographs or people are less likely to be geographically informative, especially in close in portraits.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And so here again we compare 2 cases, one in which the target set contains images with faces and one which we've filtered out images with faces both for use with the Flickr data set and the geographic data set uses the training set, and we see that there's really no consistent improvement in results. So at least in this case, filtering out images with faces from the target set does not result in improved performance. So chicken.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Food we've demonstrated the georeferenced community. Contributed photo collections can be considered as a form of EGI. In particular, we've shown that Maps of developed and undeveloped regions automatically generated using Flickr, and geographic images are shown to be similar to ground truth Maps, and again, this is despite using very simple image features.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Our sub par sub questions we determine. We showed that we are weakly labeled training set outperforms manual labeled training set. This has clear benefits for training classifiers. We've shown that photographer intent is significant, especially for the target set, and while this is restricts what can be used as target sets, it does pose the interesting research question. Is how to use a clean data set or more geographically representative data set to filter noisier datasets? In this case would be the Flickr data set an our initial results on filtering out non informative images is currently inconclusive.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
There are many obvious extensions to this, many extensions to the this work. Obvious ones include using improved image features such as just features integrating the textual annotations. Extending this to additional land cover use classes and integrating spatial models into when we are driving our predicted Maps by exploiting things such as to Bill's first law of geography.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
So we'll be having a poster session on this. Please come by and ask questions.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
I'll end with acknowledgments to funding sources to student Nathan Graves for implementing the Edge histogram descriptors. Thank you. I can now take some questions. Any questions? So I have a question why? Why do you get an improvement in the supervised case if you have a problem with some manual annotations or? So yeah, why do the weekly supervised image training ship do it? Does it better than the manual? Well, we kind of thought there is that. Maybe by propagating the labels from the developed areas to the to the images actually does a better job at capturing what images are representative of developed areas. So in the manual labeling you know we were using the heuristic that if an image depicts a scene which appears to be developed from the users perspective, then they label is developed. But actually maybe that's you know what the manual labeling is not actually characterizing, so it's actually more accurate to really use what images from? Weather, you know developed areas, but it was an interesting finding. OK, that's interesting, yeah? Any questions? Yeah, well again, so we actually didn't do. We didn't do that explicitly, but my feeling is that you wouldn't get because you're right when you look at the Maps. The dense the distribution of the images, but I think I don't have exact results on that, but I don't think the accuracy wouldn't it? Certainly for things like the fraction Maps, I don't think they would give us the. The results. OK, let's thank the speaker again.
