ULL studies rather than randomized experiment which requires adjustment for a set of covariates. For example, age, gender or family income, etc. If this is the case and then for any intervals at which is a function of YX&T and any versions of conditional expectations almost surely in any regime we have that conditional on X and forgiven specific treatment group the estimated the expectation of Z is the same no matter. Chen so conditional on X, that X is strongly sufficient and V is a function of X, then we must be strong sufficient as well. So if we have a family Q with two components Q, not, Q1 consists of the observation of distributions for X given T being equal to 01 respectively on it can be shown that a treatment sufficient reduction is a sufficient statistic for Q. Consequently, a minimal treatment sufficient reduction. Then we call such minimal sufficient treatment sufficient reduction a propensity variable as. So in this case a propensity variable is just a one to one function of the propensity score. So will carry out propensity analysis by very simple example. Is from a normal linear model because propensity analysis is regarded as a very useful tool to reduce bias or even increase precision for our estimators. The joint distribution is given us following, so we actually observe both treatment groups. And then we can actually prove that X is strongly sufficient, because in this third's model setting, Huawei doesn't depend on FT at all given X&T. And it can be shown that is also true for any regression on the linear sufficient reduction of X. Then the dog like ratio is in the really simple form. LD here is fishes, fishes, linear discriminants and also is a propensity variable in our model. So let's carry out two linear regressions. One is multivariate linear regression as usual, and the other is to carry out the regression linear discriminants. Oh, analysis is based on decision theoretic framework within which we introduce announced acoustic regime indicator FT. So to summarize, I propensity variable is identified as a minimal treatment, sufficient reduction and for simple normal linear model, propensity variable and linear discriminants that just equivalent to each other. The same estimated average causal effects as a multivariate X, so it can neither increase nor decrease precision. Therefore, our investigations add some weight to the accruing evidence that propensity analysis in some circumstances is of little help to improve the estimation of our cause causal effects. So we define our average causal effect as the difference of the expectation of our response under two interventional regimes. For convenience, we write down the values for regime indicator as the subscript here. Such X is strongly sufficient covariates, so in this case, as we can say, it's condition becomes stronger and then the name of X become longer. So if we let express property one and two for sufficient covariates graphically and then we can find out in the DAG which is directed acyclic graph.