[0.0s - 29.0s]
Welcome in this afternoon session. I am flat Ryan from Logan University. I will do the presentation of work that I did with my colleague Stephanie for Bacon also from Living University Now University of Hasselt in Belgium. It's about a Handbook on open courseware that we developed in the context of a European project. Thank you. This way, OK, thank you. And that we want to offer to the community to help institutions offer. Learning materials specifically targeted to support students that enjoy student mobility experience.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Now I will quickly go through the background of the. Project and then focus on the scenarios I want to go with you through the different scenarios that we have identified and will support with the Handbook.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
The background is this project open courseware in the European higher education space. It was a project led by Delft University. William Falkenberg, the project leader, is present in the room with you. If you would have questions later on on the project. As you see there were universities involved and also very important. In this case, the Open Courseware Consortium itself. The partner and Creative Commons also. I made a small intro video and we developed a few of these videos that are available with Creative Commons license and. I'll show you one if the mouse is working. Yeah, I got it here. I just show you a few minutes of the video. If it appears that yeah, there is this from the very first days of your life, you start to learn about the world, your powerful drive to learn is based on your need to make sense of the world. It enables you to get a grip on what happens around you. Learning and education allow you to build on other people's discoveries, clearing the path for a better future. At least that's the idea. Truth is, you spend years learning just the basics. Once you've mastered those, there appear to be billions of options. Do you want to become a writer or an artist? Study chemical engineering or ancient history? What University will you attend? And even if you do know what you want, Are you sure you can afford to pay for it? Good thing does open courseware using its powerful search engines, you can find more than 20,000 courses for free open courseware. Enables you to explore top notch learning materials. So I think you'll get a little taste of what we have developed. The idea is that you can use these materials to promote open courseware's at your own institution, which students with Professor, so they will all be on the website of the project Open Courseware dot EU. Of course you hurt half an hour ago that all the names are changing, but of course these links will be continued to work.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Now the scenarios.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So what we did is our colleagues at Mundo Tovar and Sophie Tuesday developed a methodology. To interview and question people in workshops about senior scenarios that we could identify in student mobility cycle where open courseware's could have an added value. And we were for example in Cambridge two years ago, I think on the Open Courseware conference and had a workshop there and with distilled from the many proposals that we got about nine key scenarios where open course materials can really have a beneficial impact on mobility experience. And we organize those in five stages. 5 phases. Off such a mobility, for example, in their awesomeness mobility in Europe, which is a very known student mobility program. And we focused on the. Physical mobility, but keeping in mind that when you use open courseware's to support this, you can as well offer a virtual mobility experience. I will come back to that.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
No, in the first phase the student needs to choose University of Destination. He wants to go. For example one year or one semester abroad, and then we think it is very important that universities offer what we call. These are courses where they show the lectures as they are taught in their University where they show the auditoria. The workrooms may be part of the city where the learning will take place. So that students can have a real experience of what is going on and also have an assessment about what do it.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Expect so there will be less uncertain what they will expect when they come there, but they will. Also when these videos are cleverly, may have some ideas about the language level that is expected. What? What kind of language skills of the local language should I already master to be able to do my study affectively when I'm at a host University and also content wise? Of course you can sift through syllabi, but that doesn't give the same experience. Then when you really see a teacher in class doing it and we see that there is a lot of queries in YouTube by students on those videos just to say hey how do they teach in Dallas? Do they teach in Uganda or do they teach in France just to see what the experience will be like?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Now, in the next phase, suppose that the student made a choice and this may be already involved in a kind of admission procedure and wants to prepare for his stay abroad. Then we identify three key scenarios where again open courseware's have specific advantages on a classical ways to do this. To organize your support for this and.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Let's go through them. First of all, language courses, and as it happens in Leuven University where I come from, we participated in a European Lee funded Project E Local, where with several other partners we developed small, very targeted entry level language courses on these European languages specifically made for incoming students so that we can say OK. What you need to learn from Dutch when you are in love and are these things. And it's not only limited to the language, it also has some cultural aspects which are described an. So this is certainly something that you might want to consider offering these these language courses that can be real enablers and can be very effective to improve the success rate of these incoming students.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And then you have what we call breaching courses. I myself, the program director of A Masters in Cultural Studies an we want to attract internationally very specific students. We want to have for one part students with a very thorough literature background and on the other hand we want students with the media design background so that we mix a very interesting of group of students. To have this new digital narratives and master is about that. Now, this means that we are attracting. Very specific profiles and sometimes we have interesting students that lack. A little bit of foreknowledge that is required to be successful, for example, everything we do. Presumes that you know European history, that you have an idea about European art and culture, but many Asian studies who have the right profiles for what we want to do didn't have the opportunity at their home universities to have a class on European art history. To give one example. And so gram where students can. Take these courses, but of course we want them to be able to do this before and and not when they arrive at our University. So now we are developing. It's not online already, but we are developing a package of 12 E CTS. Uh, courses and here again you have an open course that can have a bridge functionality to attract the right students.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And then of course you see more and more examples of courses on local culture and practices. I read an article few weeks ago about from one of our international students who an American student who described ideas about how to develop friendships with Belgian students. She said Belgium people are very reserved and they can become friends for life. But you have to go about it the right way. You just. Count dropping their apartment the next day that you met them, so it is totally different approach that is necessary. These are very very important informations for the stressed students that arrive in a new environment. Have to adapt to new contents to new skills and then again the social environment which is a little bit strange. So why not make open courses that explain this before hand and as I said, we included some of these things in our language. Course.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Now then, when in the next phase, the third phase, when the student actually is at its mobility destination. There are a few aspects that. Could really be beneficial first.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Steval there is a problem for the student to evaluate the right course context you have enrolled from a distance for a set of 10 courses, for example, and you got your degree and where you had similar courses but not exactly the same. While these students at the home at the host University had the exact courses that were the antecedents of the course that you're taking, so the course context is partly unknown to you. It could be that you had the basics of statistics, but that in your host University they added some multivariate analysis to it in their basic course, so they presume that you know this and then you come there as a student and you see that there is a gap. So here you could when you're home, University puts its and sorry, the host University puts its courses as open courseware's online. Then a student can much more easily see what was required, what was in the program of the other students. You can try to guess this from syllabi, but it's better when you can really browse through the course, of course, and so that.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And then the second thing is what we call online learning communities. And again, I will give an example. Not that our methodology worse casuistic, but I think your examples work better to explain what we learn from our research. Online learning communities can help students to keep in contact with their home University while they are. Abroad and for example, the students that we send out to Japan, Japan, Aladji students. We have students in the 4th year that go to Japan and we have students in the 30 year that prepare that are still learning enough Japanese to be able the next year to move to Japan. Well, we put them in an open online discussion forum with each other, so the students that are already in Japan keep doing tasks and keep 2. Communicate with the students of the 30 year that are still in Belgium. And why did we make it open? Well, we have not so many students of Japanese. And by having an open course, any alumni and the ambassador business people who are in Japan and have conflicts with our University can easily join in the discussion. And this actually happens. So in this forum discussions which are open. The students that arrive in Japan have some support from the home front. Those in the home front get better prepared for what is expected from them in the future, and this whole environment of Belgian experts in Japan is supporting this also again and easy to workout value of open I would say.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
When you return from your study abroad, you want to integrate it in who you are in involved in your achievements in in what you have learned and you want to sustain this. And.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
There there is a very direct need you need to be sure that your home University. Accredits your prior learning and so is it. For example, you took two electives when you were at this distant University, and you want to convince your University that they should give you credits for it, and so you want a credit transfer. Well, it's much easier for the staff in the home University when they can actually go through the course you have followed when the materials are open, courses they know exactly what they buy, and they know exactly what they are accrediting.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And this means, of course, that an. That you will get easier credit transfer, but there is something else. Suppose that in your academic career, you studied at three universities. I can imagine that you are a paying aluminous of your first University, where you took the most of your classes. But are you going to pay and enlist in all these alumni organizations? Of these three institutions? I don't think so. I think once in a while you will forget to pay or miss the letter. When this University issues open courses, suppose that in my career 2020 years ago I did maybe a course in purlin on logic. Well, if this is an open course, I can go 15 years later and see hey is the core still there? Did they modify it? Hey, there is now a section on epistemic logic. Where does it come from? Is this what I would have expected then? Is this something I can relate to from my current experience you will never, in a closed environment, go back 20 years later and go to this University. Try to register as an old student. It doesn't exist, whereas in Google it can be done.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
That and then of course, when you left the University cycle and you are working, there are a lot of professional trainings that will be part of your lifelong learning.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And then there is something very specific that we want to explain. An value of open courseware. Normally professional trainings are chosen by your employer, are targeted directly to a specific part of the workforce. And they have a very direct goal for the employer. Now it could be that you think that in your job you would like to know something more about Escm computer management. That your employer has paid for five positions to learn this. At the company, and you're not one of them because they think OK in your job. It's not so critical. Well, if there is open professional training you can do it on your own initiative. You are not dependent on the goodwill of your employer and in this way open courseware is also an enabler. OK then.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
That closes a little bit the cycle, and I think the most important part.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
For the last minute I will zoom into one thing.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
We added to the Handbook something about recent trends in education, just to give some context to the Handbook and I will pick out one aspect.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Which is. This one. In response to investing in open courses. This frees up resources at the University you could choose for another model of your to organize your presidential teaching. You could say, OK, I have this open courses and what I will now do is transform my auditoria where 300 students are bored listening to someone in front. We will organize open learning spaces where the students will be their own PC's their own devices, download discourses, make remixes. Reuse them and have a learning. A social learning experience in their home universities and this is what we are seeing now through Europe. This is an old order. Alt learning environment that has been transformed in a kind of a social learning space and this is the other flip of the coin of these open courses to support more mobile students and more self organizing students. And if we did that message that I would like to conclude this. Talk.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Thank you.
