This is joint work with Carlos Guestrin, my advisor Shaya. I'm also going to talk about zero order marginals, which is kind of the normalization constant is summing over everything in the distribution and that always equals one. Anyway, so we hit this tradeoff, which is that we can always capture these higher order dependencies by storing more numbers. This is the intuition 1st order marginals are the lowest frequency setof. Of free space is second order marginals contain higher frequencies in the 1st order Marginals 3rd order marginals contain even higher frequency market responses? Yeah, the four day coefficients on permutations appear as a collection of square matrices. That's just one OK. We're going to need to rewrite all of the inference operations for the hidden Markov model in with respect to the Fourier domain. The question we want to answer is how do we do these operations without enumerating over all N factorial permutations? Roll up step can be written as a convolution under these assumptions. In fact, the convolutions can be thought of as pointwise products in the Fourier German. Conditioning, unlike prediction rollup, is a pointwise product of the likelihood function in the prior distribution. And so, just as an example of the likelihood function. So just as an example, suppose we start off with first order marginals of the prior distribution and these are the 1st order marginals. And now suppose that I hand you the following. Algorithmically, pointwise products correspond to convolutions in the for your domain, with the twists that instead of real valued multiplication, we're going to have to use kind of products. We multiply every pair of them using Kronecker products. OK, and again we started off with just kind of two blocks of the prior in the likelihood and we ended up with more blocks in the posterior. As we project to a relaxed marginal polytope corresponding to the 448 coefficients that correspond to non negative marginal probabilities. OK, this is the performance of a mission tracker, so he knows the outcome of every mixing events. This is the performance of time independent classification, so these this classifier does not use any time mixing information to do its prediction, so it's only predicting on color histograms. And this is our algorithm with projection. In seconds and how how the Fourier domain inference would scale with respect to N. Now you might point out that I'm not plotting in very high here. So for example we see is Bob and if we knew that Bob was originally in the Blue Group which was on this side. The first one is the joint where we called the joint problem, and that's how we get the Fourier coefficients of the joint given the Fourier coefficients of the factors and. There should be hard to compute in general, but for for low order decompositions there they're very tractable and there not a problem to compute in practice. OK, and the complexity of this operation with known black multiplicities is just the same as prediction rollup for the joint distribution. Concerned with uncertainty in this problem. Alright, so sometimes we make noisy observations or we don't know who went where in a mixed event and we model this uncertainty using distributions over permutations and so here's an example of such a distribution. So for example 1324. Into 110th equal says something like Alice is at track. OK, now the problem with using the second block here is that we would have to recover A&B from a chronic or B, which is only possible to do up to a scaling factor. Turns out we have this marginal preservation guarantee, so let me just say it given order marginals of the independent vectors then we can always recover the NTH order marginals of the joint exactly. Alright, so now let me just remind you what 1st order independence looks like if we have, there's three these three groups that were reasoning over then the 1st order marginals looks like this $3 OK. That's almost the case. And there's actually a little bit of A twist that we need to enforce what we call a balance constraint, which forces square blocks in the clustering. The problem is that if Alice is on the yellow team here, and Bob is on the white team. Now, so let me So what we do is we always detect that first order, but we can always measure the departure from independence of higher orders and that's what we actually can do. Then we have the following result, which is that we can get exact marginals of the subset of checks of each subset of checks when first order independence holds. Here is the ratio of observations, so more observations on the right side and not so many observations here. This is the running time as as as we scale the number of events from 2200 here and this is the running time of nonadaptive which we were not able to scale really past 20. OK, so in conclusion I told you about a kind of a principled representation for these distributions over permutations. They have 48 analytic interpretations. We talked about approximation and scalability issues and we applied it on some some data. What's even worse is that these graphical models that were so used to using in machine learning they're not very effective because of what we call mutual exclusivity constraints that say that two people can't be at the same track at the same time. Well, here's an idea that some people have used before, and it's the idea of storing the marginal probability that a single identity J Maps to a single track. We could do this for every pair, and doing that we get we can put that in a matrix of N squared numbers and so for example, this entry says that track two with zero probability and essentially might say that Kathy is at track three with probability 120th. Now suppose that tracks one and two are close, and I tell you that Alice and Bob absolutely hate each other. We can put this in a matrix of marginal probabilities and this entry might say that Bob that track one and Alice is that track three with probability 112.