[0.0s - 29.0s]
How everybody so this? Rock kind of fits in the broad setting of the workshop.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Uh, emphasis is really on this real time processing on both intensive streams so. Everything apart intensive streams doesn't have really meaning proper meaning when talking about real time processing, so but will come to this. So first brief outline. So first will I'll give kind of overview over what real time processing. Should be right now in the research. The couple of areas and will briefly touch. All of them then will go into the. Quick description and short demo. I hope it will work of the system which we built for less intensive real time processing of mainly web web data and at the end couple of thoughts. So.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So first. Why motivation so? Why one would need real time information processing? Or it's not always real real time, but mostly would be right time which is sort of near real time. So the issue is how to deliver information in the right time so that it still it has sense. So the key? The key issue really is because time and reaction speeds correlate in many applications with target quantities. So one the ones which are very obvious are, let's say, on Stock Exchange with time and reaction speed really correlate with earnings if we are fast enough, then we can. Obviously earn some money and the big companies actually do this on this milli second level. And well, this is really almost real time. But even if we are a little bit slower still, I guess it can. It can be of quite some use, so in controlling it would correlate with quality of service or in flow detection with safety. Obviously the fraud happens, so we need to react fast and otherwise it doesn't have much sense. So generally we can say that reaction speed. Um? Equals value, so in our system. So basically the idea is really that we create some new value by reacting fast. Oh

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Later on, we'll see some applications where certainly this discuss sense. Oh no, I said before that there are several areas which deal with real time data processing. I would expose two of them. One is 3 mining, so this comes from the area of data mining and one, let's say branch of data mining is also called 3 mining which deals with mining data string data streams in wild different scenarios. And obviously it's kind of combination of machine learning techniques and databases, so good good description of streamlining would be on this Wikipedia page. So if the mining is more like this data driven approach, then as usual we have also more like top, top, down, more like knowledge of an approach which let's have which is called complex event processing, which is another slightly different community of researchers where the point is really to discover complex events. This complex events are composed from more atomic kind of similar events and we do this well by inference statistics. By various methods again, we have nice Wikipedia page with quick, quick summary of the topic, but generally both areas sort of overlap, but they have philosophically slightly different approach.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So let's say if you try to summarize processing of data streams on one slide, so then I guess this could be one possible way of doing it. So as any other research area also this real time information processing typically is defined by set of approaches set of tools. And operations which we perform on the data stream stream stream of data. So roughly reasoning would be our intuition will go like this. So on one side we have reality. We generate some kind of events and we have sort of machine which captures this reality in very raw form that we transform this events into something which is suitable for further analysis and we model them model them. We model them in. Various ways. Depends really on application then on the top of this model we would do all kinds of stuff. Either we would query the data or query the model. We would predict future future characteristics of the observed stream. And let's say segment. Or maybe we can do also some other things. And most of these approaches from the previous slides I would fit into this framework.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Oh up so. So when dealing with data stream is really a problem, so why so? All kinds of streams or any kind of stream is not really maybe suitable to fit into this real time setting. Typically we would need to do some kind of little bit more sophisticated research or use more sophisticated methods when we have first intensive data stream. So that's one dimension which generates complexity and complex operations which we would like to perform. So if we don't have intensive data stream, typically. We can we can use all sort of semi batch. Batch processing are and if you don't have complex operations which would like to perform on the top of data stream. Also somehow, then it's no big brainer actually to deal with the data, so I would say so intensive data streams and complex operations are the ones which really define the. Or generate complexity of dealing with data streams. So in this situations would be something like. We typically have features like this, so volume of data is too big to be stored, so this is already something which is an issue. So if you generate millions and millions of events, maybe we can store the data, but generally we don't store them in this old fashioned way and then perform some kind of batch processing afterwards. Since we have intensive data stream typically so this would be let's say, scenarios where we have hundreds or. Or even thousands events per second. So we have no time to go back. Let's say to store the events and then afterwards go back and process them, model them in one or the other way. So typically we can. We can touch the data, the event data only once we sort of incrementally built this information into the model of whatever. Modeling technique we use and then already new event comes and we need to proceed and the third one which is more like from well it's more like statistic statistical term but still extremely important data typically would be in this real life situations, highly nonstationary. So nonstationary means that they don't have one fixed statistical distribution. We generate the data. And so this means generally that data change properties through time. So one good example would be just news. So if you have stream of news topics. Topics within and use typically generate are completely non stationary, so we cannot. We don't have this one one. One probabilistic distribution which would generate topics if there would be one. Then it would be easy to predict. I don't know. Next earthquake next war next, whatever. Type of event which we like to use for whatever application. So why this is important? So approximation, especially adaptation, is key to success in this kind of situations. So volume is incremental nature and processing of the data only once and this non station in nature of data I think these are three pretty important or key key features of the. Of such real real life data streams. So as a consequence, all or most of these approaches wouldn't store observed data in some kind of expected form, but the data would be really stored in some kind of more aggregate form, which allows execution of required operations, whatever this is. Querying, segmentation, prediction and so on so we don't store the data, we just store the kind of aggregate form in the model, typically. Now let's go through some some.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The applications. Generally one specially for the important applications. We could say that they are all mission critical. So typically they have intensive streams and they have complex queries on top of it or complex operations. So this would include. Dynamic tracking of stock surveillance of all kinds of network traffic. Monitor sensor network, web Clickstream, 3 mining or predicting and all the problems also associated with this power consumption measure. Measurements and reacting in real time and and so on. So this would be.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Couple of examples application but now I have let's say one slide per applications for something like 45 applications. Let's talk monitoring is one is traditional ones. So we have stream of price and sales volume, so this would be this so called technical analysis of stock overtime and. Basically we would like to have a system which which can support trade in taking trading decisions. Now this would go roughly in the area of this complex event detection, and so this would be kind of triggers which we would like to have and if we have an intensive stream of data of this kind, so price and sales volume would like to have a system which is able to trigger to generate triggers. Up for complicated conditions. So here is 1 example of. I mean they all nontrivial once. But let's say this one is interesting, interesting one. So notify me whenever there is a double top formation in the price chart of any stock. So double top formation means that we have this double top which well for. Financial people typically would mean something like turning Trent or something like this, but now OK, now the issue is really how to identify this in real time so that this can be done in an efficient way so it's pretty easy. Actually if we just store all the data and just scan all the data in identify double, double, top and then we whatever. Trigger some system for this, but let's see if we have an intensive stream then this is far from easy, so this requires proper presentation, audit, presentation of data, proper preprocessing and everything else, so this is good example itself, complex event and if we would go through some other complex events which would like to. Three goes on while they. They all have some kind of specific switch, which is typically not easy to generate.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
OK then. Up next application. This is an application which we did for British Telecom. So here this scenario is the following. Ha, so you observe British Telecom network. This is roughly 25,000 devices from the whole British area and we have well everything from from zero to let's say hundreds or few 100 events per second. And these events are really alarms which are generated by failures into the network. Now the key here is somehow that whenever an alarm happens, typically this means. So if a new device fails. And also all the devices which are connected to this device also start complaining and so on. And we get this domino effect and we got this big flood of alarms. It's far from easy to see first with which device is really root cause for the whole failure. And of course we would like to react also or to understand also what what will happen in the short or long term future so. This is roughly the Tristan errors, which we covered, which would roughly go into bots and errors a little bit of this complex event detection and a little bit of this streamlining, so once an error which we need to cover a set so root cause analysis so finding which device is responsible for this occasional flood of alarms and this needs to be done really in seconds when the failure happens. The second one would be short term fault prediction, so if something really happens so we would like to know what will happen in the next 1015 minutes so that we are at least prepared so that we are. The operators can react in a proper way to stop some bigger, bigger failure and well. There's another scenario which we would call this long term anomaly detection. So we would like to detect situations where we smell the smoke, but there is still no fire. So something is going wrong, but nothing serious yet. So if we can detect situations like this so we can prevent situations where we would get come into serious failure. And what this was installed in BT and well this operators. So people which work with this data were quite happy and actually much more efficient. Search scenario. Is the one.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Again, an application which we did in this case for New York Times, so I will go a little bit more into the details of this application later on. So here scenario is the following. So on one side we have web page views, so in the range of let's say 5200 million per day and all the content New York Times is producing per day, so this would be in the range of. Let's say up to thousands content units per day. And so on. One side, we get streams extremely intensive stream of clicks and some content which is read by the users. We generate this. No clicks. Um? Out of this, we generate user profiles. Then we have stream of profiles of the. Basically these profiles are kind of dynamic structure because every user is changing its profile by being active on the website. Out of this, we well detect trends and we generate segments which in these segments go to sales Department sales and marketing Department and this then triggers campaigns, goes back to advertisers and this generates money. So it proper. Information and information which is generated fast enough we can catch, let's say probably aware of this term micro behavioral targeting where we try to detect these micro trends which happened maybe at some time point and then they lost maybe few hours or maybe day or two and we are if we are able to detect them soon enough then of course this has value for advertising. If you react to too late. So somehow the. Strength and the hyper, whatever goes away already and we miss the opportunity.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Another application which is also kind of interesting for occasionally for this real time information processing. Here is maybe a little bit less real time, but still it's topic tracking. So if we have stream of news coming in, let's say we would observe Twitter or. Facebook or some of these are Blockstream. Today we have a couple of services where you can just go to the pipe and you get millions of content, topics or content units. This means blocks, tweets, articles, web page updates and so on per day. So millions of them per day. So we would like to detect this topic trends which don't we might. Seeing some kind of more like public news later on. So now the question is, can be modeled them or can we identify them soon enough so that we can whatever react for whatever application so applications are of different kinds among others, let's say marketing certainly would be one security and so on. So this is an example where we were modeling articles from. Some writers corpus and you see how the topics change through time, so this is just illustrative example. So so these articles where Clinton Bill Clinton was mentioned and some topics appear, they die. Some others appear, and so on. OK, and.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
The last one. Also system which we built and installed recently. It's for Bloomberg, so it's similar scenario as in New York Times accept application now is a little bit different. So here is recommendation system. So let's say you go to Bloomberg Page. So this is a random article from yesterday. Here you see three, so a section called more news with three suggestions what to click next. And this needs to be generated. So if you generate this three clicks properly, you can get much significantly better response rate compared to. Let's see if you generate this randomly or in some kind of bad way. So the difference can be. So let's say between, let's say the bad ones would have, let's say, less than 1% of the users which come to the page with click. On this, the good ones would on average would have four 6%. So also 4 to 6%. Let's say of people would would click on this suggestion, so which effectively means that if we keep a user on the website for longer time, we have more opportunities for advertising and for many other things. So this certainly makes the difference. Now what's interesting here is that. Having good recommendation model means taking, taking into account also reach context model. So how much do we know about the user? Are we able to well detect device positions, situation where the user appears history of the user? Behavior of the people which are kind of look alike to the users of which are similar to the user and so on. So and what's interesting at the end. So this needs to be generated in less than 100 milliseconds, so this is the real time aspect here. So this is another application which definitely generates value if if it's done properly and if it's fast.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
OK, now going to the going to the. The second topic, which is well which I yeah.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
The first one is actually motivating. All these companies go into into into this direction because simply they, I mean my, let's say. Quick answer would be, which I guess is correct that they have all these data streams and practically none of them. Was dealing with this data stream before typical scenario, which they had in the past was either they didn't do anything with this data or they store the data in. Process them afterwards on some kind of afterwards and they came with some kind of model which they fed back into the system. So so basically nobody was really using this data before in real time. Yeah, yeah so. Yeah. And they are. And then you. Sure, and they're very well aware of this, because also the I mean I didn't show the valuation of this, but at least for this last three applications was measured. So particularly this Bloomberg one was properly evaluated. So it was kind of nine competing solutions from the traditional one editorial to, let's say, couple of most of them were automatic, and there was a big difference between, let's say editorial, which was. Pretty bad, so this means that there would be 3 static links pre selected by editors versus something which is really personalized and contextualized for the individual user which which appears at that particular moment on the website. And so this five times better at least. Actually, we're improving existing processes which are visually there, so they already have a notion of advertising. Always providing these additional links, this. Related links. Yeah. Do they have notion you just did? The question was how to generate, how to generate better ones, yeah. The main topic here is smart. Visit by this management and they said in election is dynamic element is real time awareness is is really the important is increasing. The one of the evidence is so busy busy processing even there is a user, then show the related links. Now with this real time aspects we have, they have actually trying to improve the existing problem exactly exactly. So this is not a change in the process itself, but we will see for my presentation, which can be considered a change. OK, thanks just here, yeah. So this is I mean exactly this point, which raised now somehow. Companies like this are typically big and complicated, internally complicated to well, specially they they don't like to reorganize for one. Any single new system which comes into house. So if you can deliver them a system which doesn't change internal business processes, so they're more than happy if you just improve them. So improve performance of the existing business processes. This is the optimal scenario visually like and this is the case here for sure. For BT was the pay the same case? Also, for New York Times, yeah, so we'd be like a lot because simply they have this established process for how to collect the data and.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
How to React is just that with this system now. These OPS operators are able to react much more accurately, what to do, and they see much faster. What's really going on, and they see even ahead of time. So which was not the case before. OK, going a little bit now into the system. So here I collected something like 6 points which were sort of objectives and which are invariant to the application. So the actual application is some kind of setting between this. Let's say well seeks objectives. In this case, we could always add some more, but. So. So one important difference between let's say this our system or this modern approach versus the traditional one is. Being able to deal with this model more multimodal data coming from a stream, so the stream can capture, not just. I don't know fixed data records coming from somewhere, but you should be able to consume all kinds of stuff, so structured data, textual data, social networks of dynamics, social social networks, sensor data and so on. And later on, we'll see in the this query phase we should be able to combine this. Somehow, so we should be able to combine textual data with social networks, so this would be a good example of email analysis, so email emails by themselves are multi model social parts, textual parts and this inherent temporal part. So one of the key features for this, let's say new type of systems will be dealing with these multiple data modalities. Then once we have data, so typically we always get some kind of event data into the system. But of course these are typically wrong information, so we would like to extend extend this raw information with some kind of background knowledge, but which could be ontological or just extra services which get the data or or whatever. So basically enriching input data. Then of course everybody would agree that scalability is really an issue, so. Let's say. System really should allow allow processing up to, let's say thousand events per second. So this sounds like big number, but actually it's more than possible to achieve this number. It's not, it's not. Far away from what? What can be done even on a machine, yeah? Event would be let's say something which happens in time, so event would be let's say in the case of. BT alarms would be an alarm in the case of. This weapon olitics would be one pageview typically or something like this, or new piece of content which comes into the system. So some like this. This is not in terminology of complex events which which comes out of many atomic events, so typically this would mean atomic events raw. Signals, but whatever. Then if you say you age views, meaning that there's someone now is due to page and this recent event, this is rather complex stuff because you get to process this page and then to extract. Something yeah, exactly. So did this. Page super yeah exactly and each. So we either we certainly enrich them, so they disappear in the next slides. But what we actually do with these events, yeah, But let's say hundreds of this row. Events per second should be. I mean, this effectively means let's say 100 hundred events per second. This is a little bit more intensive. Website typically would have some like this. Here, from the computer processing community from those of Ruger is aware of this. We're talking about 100,000 event in seconds. OK, OK. Yeah, I'm telling you now, the story. Yeah, event, so these are really small stupid events which are coming from a. So here actually I'm explaining objectives for our system, which doesn't mean that there wouldn't be other situations which would be certainly much bigger or even a little bit smaller. So, but we were targeting targeting roughly 1000 thousand per second. Actually, they are also also application. Yeah sure sure. Like this is just too cool. Could be or could be. I mean, of course you have always tradeoff between complexity. What you do with events and. And with the with the size. So if you have well richer, richer events. Of course you need a little bit more time in general, but you can always scale with well. In different ways, with proper architectural decisions afterwards. So for us response time of the system is somewhere in the range of, let's say below 100 milliseconds. So for certain applications not let's say for BT was matter of seconds, response time for Bloomberg, for instance, was at the end it was 60 milliseconds, which is roughly the response time of Google. But this range somehow was something which we were targeting. Probably if we would go to Stock Exchange. We would need to talk a little even of about the small smaller number. Oh then, next. Important important issue is really this query language. What kind of operators we we decide for. So basically whatever we get into the system and how we represent we need we need to be able to query and now the operators within a query language are well nontrivial. Then of course this requires appropriate representations and specially if we combine multiple data modalities and. If we need to perform some kind of complicated joints as a part of the query, then this is far from. Easy, so here typically we saw this scale and query language. Typically we compensate this with proper internal representation, which effectively means that we try to materialize everything what's possible. So decrease level of. Well, semantic people would say reasoning, but are decreased. The level of information which needs to be computed on the at the time of executing the query. And Lastly, so we since we talk about a lot of data somehow we need to also to cover lots of this. Aggregation methods of which means summarization, trend analysis, prediction and many others. So this goes roughly in the direction of this all up systems which which are basically all up would mean store the data cleaner data and aggregate them in proper way. So here. We would also like to support similar style of operations as let's say all upwards. All up in our database world. So here we talk about.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Like this stream stream style of follow up. Now we mentioned already this multimodal data, maybe just to touch him once more. So most. In this application speech we have insight. Oh, we. We would typically typically deal with structured eyesore data, so this would be transactions web block events and so on. Textual data, which would mean documents, webpages, blocks, emails, or textual part of emails, social networks. So emails would be good example again of it form school records if we analyze. Phone phone calls and so on and sensor data. So recently this gets more and more important somehow. If we have stream of numbers coming from all over from all kinds of sensors. So we need to be able to deal with this as well. Oh so each type of data typically needs its own specific preprocessing method. So well, text obviously needs the usual linguistic or December linguistic pipeline like tokenization, normalization, limited extraction and whatever. I mean, whatever we want to extract out of text, social network completely. Different scenario. Typically we would, especially if we want to materialize. Information about the data coming in. Typically we would try to calculate all kinds of. Aggregates out of out of the well this local part of social network which is getting update by individual event. Let's say in an email. If you get an email then the. The social part would be well from and two. So typically if we want to represent this in a proper way, there wouldn't be just idea of the person who is sending email, but also a couple of properties of this note in a graph.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Then, uh, ontological, better knowledge, so why accept we need this four? The reason to enrich the atomic raw events which we get into the system. So typically this would mean that we need this extra. Either databases, ontologies, sometimes functional descriptions. To generate these extra fields used for indexing, querying, and so on, so examples would be like, but very obvious and simple. Example is IP number by itself doesn't mean much, but when if we translate IP number into geographical location then of course it has lots of meaning. Having everything from this well. Three City states city down to particular area which can further on translate into the demographics and so on, so it can just one single IP number with an extra service can can generate a lot of additional value. So this is this bag of knowledge which. Can help a lot of well documented set translates into words, name entities, content categories, semantic annotation. Many other things which which go beyond the document in a raw form. Uh. Also very important. Piece of information. When we talk about the web blocks is so there's this one field in the web logs on browser type which which is quite messy. Actually once if you if you check how it looks like. But if you preprocess this field in a proper way, you can extract everything from well which kind of device the user is coming from browser and and a couple of other things so. At least you can certainly differentiate mobile versus non mobile and so on. Which is quite important today. OK.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
No, I had no this three slides on the kind of objectives nowadays. This is roughly the architecture of the system, so we have server sites and client sites. Oh so so everything leaves on Amazon Cloud. So we use a couple of services like S3EC2 and EBS. So the lock files appear on this S3, so storage part of Amazon Cloud so log files would mean events, row events who clicked what? Pretty much. Based on this, we crawl the content from New York Times. We do all the cleaning, indexing and so on. So this happens in EC2. EC2 is elastic. Computing right? And once everything is preprocessed, then it's stored in this EBS locked elastic block storage, which is effectively a disk and the server, which leaves again on EC tool, takes data from this preprocessed databases which are constantly updated. And here we have a web service. Then we have either. Desktop client, web client, or mashups which other people are building on top of it. So this mashup have this real time stream from, let's say New York Times or Bloomberg available.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Now, this is another visualization how this goes happens. So if we have a website here on the left, then each lock visit is being locked further on. We store this in the archive then. Update index either on. Well, here we have Bloomberg two types collaborative filters and one content based. Then we go back to the page and then we pretty much we recommend this. New stuff for. Stop, this is something with you. I guess you understand why this happens like this.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Oh, just a couple of more details, so row events as if everybody who saw this lock weblock stuff knows that this looks like this. So typically this would be part of. Part of lock line. So we have a couple of cookies. IP number. URL. Refer so in this particular case we came from a query. Query page with the query Obama. So which is again important? Information when it happened and from which user agent the user accessed this particular page. So this this would be roughly information which is the most important part of information which we take out of the log files. Now this raw event which we see here.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Gets cleaned and enriched and so on, and for each single event we generate all these fields, so we and each single event is indexed by all these fields. So this happens when an event happens, so this would include. Domain of the page. Sub domain URL. Sub directories from URL meta tax. If the page have them. Title content named entities from the content whether the page has query or not. Example before had a query. Which page? So from who is referrer of the query? Whether Google or internal search engine or some others? Referring domain from where the user came. The exact URL outgoing where the user continued from that particular page that the block of fields coming out of IP numbers or country, State, city, time block, block of fields dealing with time, absolute Date, Week, Day. And so our user agent, zip code and a couple of these demographics like drop industry, title, country and H and so on so. Uh, this is from the log file, plus extra information which we have available in the case of New York Times we have for registered users. We can also get also demographics. Information in RDF. There's no RDF here. Website technology. Uh, you know, RDF is really a syntax, so here we we talk about about the functionality so we can always expose these things as RDF, but internally RDF is simply too too much overhead. Because you have this high performance requirements. How do much do semantic technology through this requirements? But as I understood there not so much. So RDF is really it's not semantic by by itself. It's more like in interoperability. This type of standard. So semantics comes when you try to, as the word says, when you try to understand or enrich the data or clean the data in the proper way. So semantics come comes in the stage which I showed before so. So when.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
When we when we use this extra. External beger knowledge which can be stored in whatever way I mean, just necessary that it sufficient. So this is the place for semantics. Independent of the fact whether this is an XML, RDF, owl or whatever, so the so here we need to distinguish interoperability type of standards or interoperability. Part of semantics and functional part of semantics. Here we talk about the functional part of semantics. Vice actually, the discussion about can you deal with that?

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Yeah or whatever this? OK, let's say. And real time. I mean, let's say if you are a region of the modeling side. Well, you know everything. I mean the this question must be taken really pregnant in a pragmatic way, so each operation costs time resources. Now if the one who's paying for the application is willing to or. If you're able to bring certain technology within the constraints we for the ones who is paying the application, then it's OK. If you cannot, then you don't care so much for fancy names. I mean the the end it comes down to this simple effects of life. These guys don't care for they don't know even about this technology, so if they care just for the performance so at the end I don't know. Let's say 4I mentioned this Bloomberg. They were interested only one single number, so this single number which came out of evaluation so independent were generated. This single number of performance. It's OK for them. So if this is hard AF why not but something. In this particular case, we didn't represent anything internally within RDF. Even if you go, let's say you can ask the question in following following way, so all these RDF data stores like filters or or of Lehman. This on text technology and so on. RDF is really just on the input and output internally. There's no RDF, so here we pretty much talking the same level, so intern here. I discussed this internal stuff so you can export. Data and whatever. Syntax. Semantic web query language or language with their connection to the typical semantic web technologies. You know, no, there's no need to this stage for this. I mean rules we don't need any particular rules. Here is more like. Based on this couple of locations is more like statistics. Let's say recommendations are really statistical models. At the end, 11 per user, which needs to be updated incrementally in real time so. But both. Are you asking this? I mean, you mean that by using some events this month or this Bloomberg in profit more off out of this because this year there are some data streams which are unused now. OK, it can be used in a better way for proposing this. Related links. Navigation whether using heavyweight semantics, can help in doing it better under this time constraint, happy path with generating million 100 milliseconds and this is the crucial question now and you answer would be yes if we knew it would use a couple of square rules and a couple of other techniques. If you we can live in a better way. We have the feeling. No, I'm just curious because you know which as you also asked for a presentation or social stress out the edit value of. Using semantics and so on, and this is the other typical technologies I know. So I want to know are there behind the scene or are they not really appropriate for for this scenario so? This can happen behind the scenes for sure, as long as it doesn't constrain the efficiency of the solution, so. The whole framework depends on which applications. Sometimes shopping with complex events will always reactions under there. Weather applications of United Technologies. Couples with their shoes. True, like me maybe. What you did tonight quickly query hotel. Yeah yeah but again, if you're talking about sweet applications, I would be really very careful with this. So you need the reasoning and then you can spend that. I know how much time on doing this. If you think about the early warning systems for the airplane, there is no way for property for, for, for killing, reasoning. There's no way you know there's no time for doing vision and Outlook application that you really. He is a luxury, so we should really repeat this. Why I'm at the beginning we talk about semantic VPN, but very likely that the next time you get semantic but also dynamic VPN. This is a very important step. V as a community is fundamentally are forgetting that there are time constraints that time constraints, service components are very nice product. They should be revised in terms of this real time stuff. Who knows. But time that constraint is a really very critical element and issued a bit. Seriously, this is all of the content, but of course had nearly always implement semantics and hard code. Such a proposal, if you have those quick you follows easy analysis of the data in the in the handcrafted way. Yeah, and so one way. Let's say how we overcome this issue. But reasoning what Nana just mentioned is so we try to materialize. Everything what's needed, what would you potentially need it through? Reasoning somehow we try to materialize ahead of time, so that still we can ask extremely complicated queries, like you know. Questions like I don't know, not for this particular web application, but. Show me what opinion makers are reading so this is a query. So what is opinion Maker? So it's far from. Far from easy definition and needs to be materialized ahead of time. Otherwise I mean opinion maker would mean note in the social network with High Pagerank, let's say, and so this means page rank needs to be pre calculated and so on and stored in explicitly in a database, typically discretized to some degree and so on. South it's, let's say, intuition wise it's very similar like well in just in a simple. When we try to do modeling with simple statistical models like linear regression and so on, by definition, methods are linear, so they cannot. Theoretically, they cannot do anything more than just linear modeling, but if you bring in nonlinear variables then effectively they they they can do nonlinear modeling, which is much harder. So in a way, this materialized element here also brings in. Functionality which is far from just the simple simple look up tables which may look like but effectively with these extra pre calculated features we get much much longer functionality. Oh so this material is logic is also if you well if you talk with people like let's say not so far from onto text and so on so. Lots of stuff is precalculus materialized and extra reasoning which is generated into this high performance RDF stores. Goes very often through these materials parts so not so many things are actually generated on the fly as one would think.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
OK, just to continue boldizsar couple of Amazon services which we.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
We are using and this a couple of numbers which might be interesting to see. So through this system goes something like 50 gigabytes of. Log fires per day like 10 gigabytes would be in a compressed way after all the cleaning and everything, so only 500 megabytes remain and this would be something like 5 to 6 million unique users. And just to understand roughly on New York Times side 7000 unique pages would be hit per day more than 100 times. So this is roughly the the. The upper part of the distribution of the Web Statistics Index per day would be roughly 2 gigabytes, which comes out of the out of this data. So raw data plus and reached fields plus. Plus index overheads which comes from the index and well if on a good proper workstation. Let's say this one day of data at the end can be processed in 10 minutes, so that's why we can deal with this large number of events. So this is in a batch mode, but we do this in a real time mode. Amazon is a little bit slower because of all the overheads which Amazon's cloud brings. Oh

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Maybe we can keep this. I guess we don't have much time. Oh phone calls in the meantime.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Maybe I can just show so here we see just 22 screens, maybe out of this. Oh so first first queries we say, well show me what users from Slovenia in this case, what people from Slovenia reading? So since we operate here with this multimodal data, maybe I didn't emphasize enough, but this multi model element in this kind of cases actually compensates a lot of these questions about semantics and so on. So if you're able to do joints between multiple modalities in very efficient way, this brings extremely extra. Power into the system, so here you will see two types of Join Now, so the first one is. So we select all the users which came from Slovenia based on IP and we make a join with the text which they are reading and this is a summary of the text and in particular this is set of keywords which well at that time some months ago. Were discriminating Slovenian users versus an average New York time user New York Times user, so it's a joint from users into the content. Now let's turn the next page. We see, we say.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Checked all the pages which mentions Slovenia. As a keyword, as one of the words and we make join with a set of users which were reading this, which is of course completely different picture. So having this kind of joints and we can deal with multiple joints even more with the queries with well queries would be the search element here, but in general we can. We can we can operate on many more. Oh we can do also things like. Show me the. Pages which include the word Slovenia who is reading them and based on the profile of who is reading them, generate back the content which is similar. Which is typical for this population, which effectively means collaborative filtering in as two joints.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Could be one.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Version of it, yeah, but.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
This joint.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
It's in one of the.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Either way can generate.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Much more complex upper.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Missions in.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
But in very simple way and we do this with.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Statistical probabilistic joints effect at the end.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
You don't need to make full ones. OK, let's keep this a couple of slides. And go just to the final thoughts. Oh well, since we discussed about this. 3.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Event event processing. There are a couple of books which might be worth checking and. So we think if you want to learn a little bit more, maybe there are some more now. Uh, related.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
The pedia links. Some I mentioned already before the couple of more which could be checked.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
On video lectures, well, there are two. Sort of tutorials. Now also, this lecture will appear up there, so the third line and. And well.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Just the last slide, so possible. Future challenges which one might consider so. I guess the stream operators. Will probably become part of the standard database systems, and so here, so the some of these systems are already out there. Up so. Dealing with this complex event types. Of course this is an issue here I. We discussed already this multimodel. Issue so how to operate with the events which would generate which will be generated out of different types of data. Then one important research issue which is part of social network analysis and data mining and maybe some others dynamic social networks. So this is very under unexploited. Area so. Basically, when the underlying data model is really a graph which is getting updated, which every single transaction, so and issues which coming coming out of this are not yet properly. Addressed I would say, and eventually we could talk also about these semantic streams. How to map this low level event streams into higher level semantic concepts and well sensor networks will be certainly one good example of this. And this is the last slide.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
So any questions? Available. Roughly, I wanted to show basically at least my perspective to to this, which includes of course. I mean I'm very well aware of what's going on in this semantic world, and also in the data mining world and well, once, once you. Deal with the customer, then they don't care for either of these communities. They just want a solution. So and then the question is really what's? What's the healthy part of all this? Ideas which we which float around in research for moving in that direction? OK, semantics bust but practical, but pragmatics semantics or something something ladies and this is what we're pushing. As I said, we are pushing A at least starting with this workshop to create awareness of the role of real time semantic processing for the business application. Because this workshop is about business applications and I'm absolutely confident that the only way is. With market probably a little bit explained to materialize, to go around this very heavyweight semantics, but still to be. To do that, what the technology is actually? Yeah, to be scalable and both should bring 2 applications and I should ask you because you are also talking about real time processing. OK, you introduction. What is the withdrawal of the semantics in in this rather critical applications? It is essential. Is essential. Let us see who's cases in our project. Resources, security, airports. You have a lot of sensory information and you have to figure out those cases which are interesting in some sense. So it just filters across highly semantic. Fit. Stay post epic ones in this event. Live stream data and to figure out the the challenging situation. OK, OK, the role of semantic is to model this information sources on the semantic level so that you can combine or join them easily. Another one is to classify the words. If you have complex about definitions, you have to find out how the atomic events can be combined into complex events. You mean to define complexity and patterns to define the situations you are interested in? Correlated again designtime. I mean, this is again this. You sat at evaluation time to detect complex event. For example, you can send the critical for the airport is if within 5 minutes. This and that happened, but you added this pattern within 5 minutes. This and that happened. You are defining in design time, so you are no or you or you can define in the real time also. Places where it is defined real time. I mean in the in the cases that we have in environmental modeling. Suddenly, you say I know what happens if I put these things together. I mean, he says they will be and you are germ. I mean maybe generating these patterns on the flight right on the flight? OK, give me an example please for this generator. Flood the risk case. Of course. I mean there are models that are very well understood and very well known, but suddenly you have somebody please trying to react to act. You need to come to class and some characteristics they know exactly which are the areas that could be flooded. Yeah, that's a normal thing, but then I mean you have a new information source that is coming to your system and that you haven't previously design. I mean, you and your design, so you may think what if I use this information for something? I mean, it's always like, well, we of course I mean this can be translated into the same time later on. Yeah, it may happen that I mean with this type of very dynamic information sources. I mean it was. It was not considered at the same time. OK, then why not? I mean so you, you think about the whole information sources source which is coming into the game now. OK, then in that case, yes, you have to be dynamic in general. Something on the fly. Is not all the case? I mean no, no no, no. I'm completely confident that a lot of use cases in which you are. You should be able to to generate patterns on the fly. So this investigation on the fly simply to emerge from the from the current context. I don't know whether Semi OK of course semantics can help you in in in defining some some patterns where I see when you're talking about the patterns. I see the possibility to define similar patterns and then use semantics as as a model to define what is similar. So you know that if ABC happened within 5 minutes, something will be wrong. But now you don't have ABC have a B prime and see but this be prime is very similar to B, so that you still can be. So you can detect something else that was not previously defined, so I really see the semantics on on the level of these. It's very expensive modeling, but then you're talking about the detection then really, I really don't see semantics. Is usage of semantics as something which is important because it is important because it is dramatically decreasing the performance. Performance is because the industrial developing a new engine for event processing and they're still discussion this this this. Ongoing discussion about how much semantics in India really matter is everything. What is possible and then doing non semantic processing. But it's simple like this. So because you you cannot allow that. Your complex event is A is an RDF structure, whatever triplets 'cause. Then you're truthful. Is decreasing also dramatically. But I agree with you so I'm not video. But I agree with the general comment that semantic has a role, especially this multi modality. You cannot come in. Combine two different sources without having some kind of multi meta modeling. As you already presented. I mean we we need for interoperability we need semantics, but we have to be careful about the usage in injury time and how to use it. I would like to make a difference between semantics as it is defined and how it is processed. So what Michael mentioned, this materialization is of course of essential issue, but it does not change the semantics. I agree, if it just runs right. Semantics them. Lots of progress bars from the practical viewpoint. Sure, they still have to semantics. So do not confuse reasoning in real time with semantics and then processing. ISM. In in in another form, as I said, we are discussing about should we do? Event processing with the semantic events. Or just forget semantics and do event processing on simple events. And this semantic event means that means that this event is representing our let's say our DFS or something like this, which has a semantic flavor and then you have a problem if you if you are dealing with a lot of triplets instead of doing with the some simple form of the data. But we should not go into this discussion because I understood what you said. Just want to clarify, but I. What what I said the the main point is that via semantic community has a challenge to really bring the value of of semantics for the real time processing. By the way, every time processing is coming as application area, I mean everything will be real time enabled and we will either find a solution for dealing with this or will disappear from from this mainstream applications which are which are coming Now I. I'm doing a lot of in this direction. We will see how we will succeed. For example, did you experience but people people you are dealing with? I mean in this I would say these are interdisciplinary projects. What what? What the expectation of semantics I mean. But in spectation, what semantics can bring is added value to this complex applications. For them in the in this specific case, and in a way talking to geographers and local authorities, emergency services discovery discoveries confronted enough discovery of discovery of data sources of. Uh, of events, but I mean very simple events. I mean for them, is this enough just to to discover when the water level is going to go over the top of the upper back? Stupid? Predict to do predictive modeling you have positive modeling and they have their own models. And I mean that's something that you can change. This is a nice way of working, but what they want is to find additional sources of information where they can take decisions and they can make decisions or with weeds that come in positions. So I mean semantics as they see them. OK is really for discovery and for making it like with integration, which is what marker was also presented. Probabilistic joins over there are. Really like the key. Didn't have the least reappears in ecological modeling is, so I had pretty clean data source so I didn't have much troubles on the data source side while but but historical modeling can. That was a question with yes. I think it all depends on the computer power, because when you think back 10 years ago, even the cluster analysis was very difficult to manage. And nowadays with all the new techniques like grid computing and the new computer power, you can manage such real time analysis and I think the same thing will happen with the semantic technologies, but it's still. Depending on this computer, power complexity is a serious issue. Yeah? 'cause that's the only thing. Linear regression, you have a normal works workstation. You can go for a coffee break and nowadays some. Some algorithms are detecting clusters even more efficient, so so mappings and some other algorithms. But it's also depending on the computer power. I think yeah, this is an issue, but I did not say that. Each builder is all completely that the problem complexity we will carry in the semantic web technologies, SVR, SVR, defining, now. So it's still still remain important. What is also interesting is that what you mentioned is this so called false positive problem that you actually you don't know when to issue another because if you are too early then you're probably falls and if you're too late then it's too late for everything. So so this is where I probably see the role of semantics in in probably. Helping so we cannot increase the processing power, but probably the intelligence of processing can be improved as magnetism by verify actually bear. And the investor is called intelligent processing processing. But this very seriously the power of semantics. We cannot improve the processing power. But intelligence of this for sure and this problem the way Marco is probably where the mega knowledge. If you are using meta knowledge methodology in terms of that you did your processing with a very efficient algorithms. But now we have to put to compare results in order to make a decision. Depends on application. Let's say if you talk about recommendations then you have feedback loop in a way and you use the data itself to train for. In advertising, typically you would have this loop as well. So depends. Depends what you're optimizing. For in BT case, let's say we have so well kind of same label data, which part of the data was pre labeled because of the past things about this position. So the different scenarios actually. But I think yeah I did another example. It is for example. In sensor data, there is a very unreliable sources, so they're probably bad calibrated whatever, and this is where you can use semantics in order to detect this kind of stuff. Also, there was a problem with the out of order events events which are coming and then are actually coming too late, so these are probably issues where you really can put more, let's say, reasoning. Whatever does it mean what it means on the top in order to be flexible, but I will not go really into this that we can beat whoever is doing real time processing, especially database community. Adding performances, but if this intelligence is is awake and now putting this everything in the business process management. Had been quite a few. We're actually defining the context in which business processes are doing, and this contextual information should be also model in a in a semantic way. OK, any other question? So how much preprocessing are you doing? Simply written here, entity expansion, but some of the on the level of on the side of the text. We use case we do just tokenization and they make that exception, nothing more, just. There is no need to do anything more low baby food I guess. Do a couple of things more so in the next stage we will extract also relationship little so Mystic pipeline will be a little bit longer, but it's not critical really at this stage. For these applications there if it comes complex. If you really want it condense arbitrary textual data. Send text message using here takes is using so you have for today you have no thousand new texture, you did, so you can do extremely complicated stuff from the text, then using these textual features to describe. Using the user profiling then this is this is the next step, but actually we don't operate here. This application would last text. That said we would we would. Let's analyze topic trends on some extreme intensive extreme wipe that this would be different than you cannot afford to complicate Investec pipeline. But here here is not an issue because that's really another bridge to semantic technologies. The question is can you extract out of whatever semantic or whatever technology features which would describe or discriminate good users from red users? The semantics here exercer backgrounds beggar knowledge with generates new features which are used them to. Either Skype users or predict future or whatever you're optimizing so so semantics has its own role here. Future generations. And then this. Not sharp, semantic relations could be a positive relations and they also informed consumer textual data. You have concepts which are closely related. Clustering results. Print this out. Yeah, this is already in one of the other way inside everything all this soft stuff it's more like the question is if we would be able to extract a little bit deeper deeper. Relationship. Construction so relation identification between then the service of the property. An interesting next step which could generate with it. Better, more precise targeting. Information. But so you know, on every single step which I showed them how we could improve or prolong make pipeline a little bit longer. And if you don't think so, here's the deal was really somehow to make the whole vertical operation in this short type device. So at the end you know if maybe generate much better recommendations. That's it from number. But if this recommendations would be generated in one second instead of 60 milliseconds would be like we didn't do anything, so we can use. You have lots of constraints which you need to satisfy the signal. Take any additional questions. He's not.
