I'll introduce the problem that we're trying to solve, of course, and then I'll talk about how this is not really a new ID, because the ideas behind my approach are already implemented in something called the normalized web distance by Google. So what we want to do is we want to quantify the dissimilarity or the distance between things in the world, right? We want to do this for indexing, retrieval, clustering, whatever. Let's say we have a knowledge graph about 1000 nodes. These are the nodes that link to X&Y. We actually use a little more complex scaling that better distributed the distances or the similarities between zero and one, but the basic principle is the same. So for example, if you have a knowledge graph for the 1000 nodes, you know that the maximum distance that you can possibly get is about 8.9, and it grows with the number of nodes. So we looked at other approaches that were relevant to us and these are the three classes that we selected. Basically this is the intuitive thing that distance is measured via the concept hierarchy, basically. So we did not beat the existing approaches, but we did achieve a clear positive correlation, which means which means that at least our core assumption is in the right direction. OK, there are many disambiguation options for these terms, but none of them actually captured the intended meaning. You have no equivalent of Freebase. You have this thing called the normalized information distance, which theoretically does this. And that's what they did with the normalized web distance. And this represents the number of occurrences that have certain term has on the web and the theory behind it is if two of these concepts occur frequently together and their distance is going to be smaller than when they don't appear frequently together. So to illustrate that, we created a set of 20 concept pairs that we said OK, these. And one of the options that we're exploring now is this is the one that I mentioned on the slide there an we also want to look at the aspects of the Knowledge Graph that actually play a part in influencing these results. So that's the conclusion we introduced this new distance in knowledge graph, advancing the idea of the normalized with semantic web distance. Basically this frequency function F you calculated by looking at the number of search results for a certain concept, and fxy is basically the number of search results for two concepts together. Changes all the time. The idea is that something called the normalized Google distance in this case between bass and guitar. You also have problems with availability, because Google might always be there, or more importantly, it might change. And that's how we came up with the normalized semantic web distance and the core principle, is very similar. That is, if two concepts are used to describe the same things, then their distance is going to be smaller than when they're not used to describe the same things. You need these frequency functions and that's the cool thing with the knowledge graphs is you have lots of options. So if we take the number of nodes, for example, linking 2X, look at only the incoming links and we can write a frequency function for that, just the cardinality of that set. We can also look at the outgoing links or both of them and the important thing here is that we count the number of nodes, not the number of links, because we treat a node that is linked to a certain concept. Alright, so if we instantiate the same formula with that, but those cardinalities as a frequency function, basically you get to normalized semantic web distance and what's cool about it is that it's easily implemented using sparkle count distinct queries.