So Nationals and ECR stands for National Center of Competence in research, and it's interesting to know that out of those 20 only two ICT related. We started annotating it just annotating about 100 hours of multimodal meetings where we record everything. Took us about 2 1/2 years to annotate the data in terms of audio transcription, named Entities, Dialogue Act, topic segmentation, extractive abstractive summaries, hand gesture, head gesture, location of persons on videos, gaze direction, movement around the room. All the things that we like to do, speech recognition, focus of attention, gesture, multimedia, indexing and so on. I'm going to talk about today is at the middle of the second phase. In research, so of course higher quality of research integration, so integration in national, European and internal international projects, and I'll show you how we did it. So technology transfer talking, telling you all we believe we should. So saying we are going to do research during 12 years in multimedia information system and advanced multimodal human computer interaction. We had no idea how to work together so at the end of the first year we were lucky enough to come up with something that was kind of nice excuse. Well basically all important decision in spite of all the technologies that I have heard about today, Internet and communication and video conferencing and everything. Most decisions today just think about that they are still taken face to face shaking hands. Yesterday again, there are about 12 million business meetings being held every day in the US birthday, 12 million meetings. We had to work with social psychology. We had to understand that speech and video processing was not speech and audio processing. So database management and meeting analysis, audio processing, multimodal processing, visual processing, then multimodal content abstraction HMI the interface and then all the demos and on the side is interesting. We started. OK, then what happened after this national project is that we started boosting bootstrapping on many European and US projects. I would say you know, very naive at the time, but then we started getting still in FP6 called M4 multimodal meeting management projects.