OK, So what I'd like to do is to talk about some work that I've been doing with Fan Zhang on developing graph spectral methods for image smoothing. OK. Hello, I'll start by giving a quick review of the literature and motivation for the work. I'll talk about graph representations of an image, and the edge structures in an image. I'll introduce the Heat equation that defines diffusion on a graph. Then I'll give some details of numerical implementation and search about. So what we want to do is to is to model diffusion smoothing of the image data using the heat equation. So what I want to do is to write down the heat equation for the graph and that's the partial differential equation on the top of the slide. It's the HTTP equals minus the normalized the plastic lines HT where HT is the heat kernel and what I'll do later is to show how we can use a solution of this differential equation. So the the solution of this differential equation is fairly simple. And if I unpack this, the state vector, the probability of visiting the ice node after time T is just PT of I. So we're going to try to use the random walk on on the graph to model image smoothing van via anisotropic diffusion. What's going to happen is when the transition probability is small, then there is strong evidence of edge structure and we see ourselves as residing in uniform image regions and the heat kernel is going to perform the role of smoothing the pixel values and this means that the pixel values are going to be related to state probabilities of the random walk. And the idea here is we're going to have the pixel values stored as a vector. Of stacked image columns and the connectivity structure is going to be encoded by the normalized Laplacian matrix. If we have D as a scalar function, then we have inhomogeneous diffusion of the perona Malik type. The complete the complexity of the computation of the exponentials by using the Krylov subspace projection technique. So for instance, for noisy images that they may not be sufficiently smooth to give reliable derivatives, and if we want to achieve fast, accurate and stable implementation, then this may be difficult in practice. What we want to do? So to conclude what I've done is, I've provided a graph representation of images and this provides a natural way of trying to realize the diffusion. I've shown that the diffusion on the graphs can be used to for smoothing efficiently, and the diffusion is determined by the spectrum. Of the Laplacian for the weighted graph representing the problem and that we've overcome problems with computational complexity here, using the Krylov subspace technique. If we can use graph spectral methods to solve the diffusion equation commencing from purely discrete setting. So what we're going to do is we're going to set up a diffusion process as a problem involving a weighted graph, and we saw a flavor of that in the previous talk with work on normalized cuts and what we're going to do is to encapsulate anisotropic smoothing by an edge weight matrix. So, since we're trying to work with the graph representation, what we're going to do is to make the pixels are nodes and what we're going to do is to try to diffuse grayscale information along the edges or connectivity structure of the pixel lattice with time. So let's just quickly talk about how we set up the graph edge. Wait, what we're going to do here is do something slightly different. We're going to characterize each pixel by an end by end window, and that contains a set of neighbors, each of which has a pixel grayscale value. We can start to set this problem up in a graph spectral setting. So to do this, what we do is we first of all compute the diagonal degree matrix.