Human faces contain lots of information as as you know, there's identity. Democratic information like gender, age, race, ethnicity. And also direction of attention is very important, including head pose and gaze direction. Investigating a clot. Facial expressions fit reveal suppressed effect, so we. Which was using generative latent variable model to model the Inter speaker variations of visual appearances and those quotes by uttering. And heart rate from videos. We had last year in in. And in 3D visual speeds we have also done. 3D animation from 2D video sequences. Many talents is so pose and illumination variations in real world. Environment may call face analysis tax much more difficult, and precautions of spontaneous expressions is very hard. I will understanding of visual speech is not as good As for audio, speech and background noise makes audio speech recognition unreliable. So in identity recognition and soft big parameters, problems are caused by. And facial expression and audio speeds are also useful for identity recognition, but they have not not been much used. And recognition of spontaneous expressions is very hard. Be cause, for example, facial expressions are not culturally only universal and also kenderaan facial aids affect emotion decoding. Physiological signals like heart rate, temperature, respiration, galvanic skin response, blood pressure. Past research on facial image analysis has focused on more or less isolated problems. Like facial features, face description, detection, alignment, face recognition, expression recognition, poles and case estimation, and so on. So my vision is that many sub areas of facial limit Salazar. Already quite mature in major and more focus should be given to the problems of multimodal phase analysis systems. Then about audiovisual speech recognition. So speech recognition in noisy condition is very unreliable. If there peoples in the background then speech recognition. But human listener, can you visual cues like lip and tongue movements to enhance speech understanding? Performance. And our understanding of visual speech falls sort of our understanding of the acoustic aspect of feeds, that's why. If you want to make groundbreaking progress in audiovisual speech recognition, but we are still. So human faces contain lots of useful information. And for face analysis systems, multimodal information is often needed, and that should be One Direction. In the future. It would be considered as a whole, but not as a collection of parts because there are interdependencies between different parts and. Some cognitive models of human perception that may give some hints for computational systems, so they are. This slide is from 2007. So our future vision has. Build human centered, ubiquitous systems that are omnipresent, invisible, and imminent. Billy, that technical wireless infrastructure will be everywhere in man made environment and from wallpaper to vehicles and close to platform. So much innovation will play a key role in sensing and understanding actions, face detection and. Their communication with the robot must be. It's a system using some some basic methods. For interaction with our social robot. When you use computer vision for human computer interaction. It should be for the company computers be able to data and identify the user like in our system. We had a simple post expression recognition in our system. Communicate easily by understanding speeds and gestures, so we used audio speeds in our present system. And also some guests are communication from a distance. Best known result is of course face recognition using local binary patterns that was awarded last fall with The Conjuring price for fundamental contributions in computer vision.