Then who far is an abbreviation and it stands for Nouvelle Edition Numeric. Ensure that it would be accessible to a wider public also to hopefully ensure that we could preserve the kind of the visual look of the dictionary. Also, because it is an illustrated dictionary, we thought this was quite important, but then we were also very eager to make sure that the linguistic encyclopedic and historical content in the dictionary was included in a way that would make it more accessible to querying and also to other kinds of machine processing. And in addition, in order to adhere to the fair principles which are. We wanted to use standards or formats that had already had a white uptick in the community, and this is to ensure that our data would be as interoperable and as reusable as possible. Well, in order to make the visual aspects of the dictionary more accessible, we decided to make the dictionary available. You can trace changes in orthography of words, such as their new menu far itself which originally had two alternative spellings, and then it was spelled with a pH, and then finally with the with an F. We can also track changes in the pronunciation of different French words such as Eliquis, and in addition we can also learn a lot from looking at when specific words entered the lexicon and also when they are no longer included in the lexicon. You can also try to track changes in technology and in scientific knowledge, for example by looking at how the definitions of words such as I've yes, young and helicopter change over the course of the different editions of the dictionary. OK, so when it comes to encoding print dictionaries. Structured lexical resource is two of the most popular formats or data models are undoubtedly. You might wanna argue with TI and RDF, and I say this mainly because these are the two target formats currently being used in elexis. However, because we had chosen to to work with both of them, we decided we would think in terms of a division of Labor and focus on each of those. So our starting point was the TI encoding of the various different editions of Liberty, Low Silistra, and so basically I wrote a Python script in order to to carry the conversion and the fairly easy to map elements such as entry. Linguistic data categories such as part of speech. But however, in the case of elements such as Death Note and Atom, which are actually used to encode important information in the TI representation of the dictionary, we there wasn't anything that we could all we could use that already existed. So this is probably can see very well, but this is a sample page from the 1st Edition 1906 edition of the dictionary, and as as I will explain later, the discounts are actually available to download on the website, and the illustrations are also available as separate images and so the text has been for all of the additions which we've been which we processed so far. So one can have big decision which we made was to represent the various different editions as one graph rather than creating one separate graph pair addition. And this was really to save because otherwise it would have been too redundant because even though the additions change a lot of the information remains the same. And then we linked together the different versions of a lexical entry using the Dublin Core properties, has version and is version of, and in addition we also not only linked together different versions of an entry, but we also linked together the parts of the entry that that actually change across addition. Situation, so a small sample of the entries of the entries that we've already included up to this point can be found at the following address. Speranza is in Italian is to have the whole data set available in RDF for 2021, and we also plan to add links from definitions and Nordson etymologies, which reference named entities to other resources such as DB Pedia, which also represent these entities so.