Are comprised of multiple sequences that evolve overtime and this is like the most interesting characteristic of this data. Since we have developed algorithms that have the capacity to adapt to these changes and do that in a. Getting in a scalable way in the number of sequences and have also timely results so we can actually see the result as the data. Actually we compute for each point the core level the core level is the distance from that point which mean PTS nearest neighbor. In that in such a way I can computer ordering of the whole data set so that each object is positioned. So that all labs before it have the minimum which are build distance. So what we're trying now to construct is that I'm changing mapping of that class mix track of the classic structure to the user understandable format, and the way to do that. Is the same is the same idea applied to the micro clusters where the only thing we need to do is define it as the radio? We applied this to a real data set. And if we see a complete plot for this data set for that from 2000 to 2500, you can see a three different 3 three cluster region. Classic framework with optics in this work and as as you can see there is. There are several problems to deal with. This is next work. You could break down the custom breaks down completely. On the other hand, the data streams we are only trying to do that using partial information. We are not able to store the complete information and sometimes we are not even interested in that. Density estimation I'm not going to talk about it anymore with previous talks. Candace and estimation of the specific point. There are some things associated like the bandwidth matrix that computes a is associated with the smoothness of the kernel and some other mathematical issue. One of the most established technique and well known is mean shift and then click where the classes are determined by the idea of regions, they, regions of attraction of a Hill, climbing or mean shifted another words procedure. Just answer, the cure is very fast, so the basic basic idea behind these kind of knowledge related techniques is to define clusters by using neighborhoods by computing the neighborhoods of a given size around each point. So if we compute these neighborhoods, we require that each one of them has a has a contains at least a minimum number of points around it, so we can determine noise. This do not correspond to actual points and as points arrive from datastream, the red ones we compute estimates of the center of micro clusters and the radius around them. Is it make it contains it maintains in its memory to list pilant? So the solid line as you can see. Estimated radius and the centre or it's outlier Model classic depending on what it's closer.