So this is our new framework program which is different than FP7. This is not business as usual. Then changing the topic .82 innovation and technology transfer projects. So we are calling for collaborative projects that will emphasize this data user in that exchange between companies. This is not the place for that, but indeed they can contribute with results that are standing up for research projects, including research projects of theirs. Why does possible European footprint to this to this kind of this kind of projects and or cross lingual, so a lot of the data sets that are of European interest will have language problems that needs to be addressed and solved, so if you're not processing any data that are married that comes from sensors from the internal things but they have problems, only linguistic problems they need to be addressed within this project, we really were really calling for this. Then another question that I often been asked so you said that the concerns that need to be steered by core of companies providing business objectives. Start from the first one, which is the effective exchange and reuse of data assets. So here we would like this club. We're calling for a coordination network of you skill Centers for Big Data Technologies in Europe. We have a technical background note available online. This is about big data research, so a lot of people were interested in this in this topic. I think there is a misspelling here in coordination and support action. You read it so data structures, algorithms, methodology, software architectures, optimization, methodology's that are important to be solved in order to support the basis for functioning. That economy of the future. And we're appropriate multilingual, multimodal data streams, so there is a big emphasis on data stream and real time processing of these streams. And the goal is to create such environments that will become self sustainable after the end of the funding. Large scale prediction and deep analysis. We have to follow some rules so the prices can be awarded to people who are eligible for Horizon 2020. Oftentimes warehouse, can we use Twitter? Well, in principle the answer is no, not primarily focus on the data sets of European industrial relevance, so we do not own the Flickr and Facebook of the case, so we can do some limited analysis and work on those kind of things. ICT 17 is about language technologies. So the research and innovation actions is the part of the of these of this topic that is specifically defined for addressing the challenge that was telling you before. Machine translation is not efficient for the very vast majority of European official languages, so we need to create the conditions and the work for this to be addressed. For example the quality, the quality issues on the adaptation issues but also focus on the on reducing those factors that are critical now for giving us the possibility to address those languages. So let's spend 30 seconds to read together actions primarily consisting of activities directly aiming at producing plants and arrangements, or designing for new, altered or improved products, processes or services for this purpose. There are two different things that were calling under this objective, so the so called European data integration integrator. And then we have innovation and technology transfer projects. Many of you would be familiar with the concept of the UK Open Data Institute, which focuses on the reuse of open data. Which are sort of seed funding if you want, so we're taking the example of what what's happened with venture capital in seed funding.