Microsoft Multilingual terminology is also available through the. And its resources will be used to monitor services both for human and machine users. Still there is participating in the first one is coordinated by till there are accurate and to see the first one is about analysis and evaluation of come parable for program. The data extracted from these corpora from such corpora is then used in machine translation. Anti Project is about terminology extraction from comparable corpora to save. Reference time listen more than 10 languages. Two big multi level alignment and information extraction from comparable corpora. It's about establishing the cloud data cloud based sort of platform for acquiring, cleaning up, sharing and then reuse using and reusing mountain angles. A statistical machine translation to narrow domain in automatic manufacturing domain. We had very little. We have now in demand tax in the source language and the left hand language we have extracted from terms from Terrell TX got from the client. We collected additional convertible text with the help of this terms. In the translation and localization services in terminology management in language technologies and resources. This the terminology is on the cost between the semantics and language technologies. It really helps to automate the creation of multilingual and cross lingual meta data. When we're visiting a doctor, we are building a house, buying the car we've come across with terms every day, each of us to Manila. Two matters within the Mongol European efficient and precise communication. Language for specific or professional purposes and multilingual terminology is being already exploited by human users, human. And now it is also being developed as a web service for machines as users. These are creation of new terms, coining of new terms, consistency, extraction according to recent service in the terminology field. We need to acknowledge concept formalization, that annotation indexing and search of data and so on and so forth. From my presentation today, that terminology is on the cusp between semantic and language technologists.