[0.0s - 29.0s]
Gentlemen, I'm glad to be here and I would like to. Thank the organizers of this nice advance from their grinding rotation and their support in visit issue process that. Allow screen to join you today. My name is Tatyana gonna stay and I will not go. I will not go into detail about my professional interests nowadays everything. Can be done with one click on the Internet and I say that. During recent years I have been involved into technology problem projects mostly. Uh, so I've got.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Congrats man. One of the beautiful country is one of the most beautiful countries in the world. It borders bordered by standing outside the North, the South and Russia. To the East.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Today I represent till there done leading company the leading Baltic company in the. In the translation and localization services in terminology management in language technologies and resources. We are operating from the three offices with the headquarters in Riga and Vilnius.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Um? Yeah, we've got quite a divide. European cooperation. Within reason Dan not in recent projects. And, um, language resources, terminology, machine translation, and so on and so forth. So we've got a wide range of experience and expertise.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And today I'm here and have a pleasure to present all this recent advances and projects in the technology field. And I would like you to remember that terminology, is it. Remind sorry that family are mine. When we're visiting a doctor, we are building a house, buying the car we've come across with terms every day, each of us to Manila.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Two matters within the Mongol European efficient and precise communication. Cannot be imagined without consistent terminology. In academia, in industry, in government, in general, in society.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Terminology is a language, yes, of course. Language for specific or professional purposes and multilingual terminology is being already exploited by human users, human. Um? Language workers, translators, technical writers, terminologist whatever. And now it is also being developed as a web service for machines as users. For machine translation indexing, search annotations.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And so on and so forth. Um? We've come across with several challenges working with terminology. I the most. The most challenging group them most challenging difficulties. OK. These are creation of new terms, coining of new terms, consistency, extraction according to recent service in the terminology field. Can you mentioned that more than 80% of language workers? They do it manually? So consolidation and harmonization, yes, sure. Of course we're living in multilingual society. And recently sharing and interoperability his game. Even more attention. Moreover speaking about machines as users of terminology resources. There are. Such problems may be bad challenges. Yes, the right work. That machine translation adaptation to narrow domains. We need to acknowledge concept formalization, that annotation indexing and search of data and so on and so forth.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So and now I want you to remember. From my presentation today, that terminology is on the cusp between semantic and language technologists. That terminology is bridging the three communities. Represented here in this room today.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Um? Children started its research and development in the terminology field more than 10 years ago and.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
In 2007 it resulted in the Federated Approach to consolidation antagonization of disperse to multilingual terminology resources. The unit town bank, actually, the second largest terminology that Tom Bank in Europe and Yacht is also linked to your turn back on. So we can say that it's the 1st and young with. Big time back in Europe.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Your return bank is providing actually services terminologist services already. Is terminology is available from the Microsoft Word environment? It is the most popular. The mouse used translation environment among language partners. It's terminology is available from my MCU, computer assisted Translation tool. Microsoft Multilingual terminology is also available through the. Single online consolidated interface of you return back. And so on and so forth. I'm glad to let you know that sharing an exchange menology so that you return Bank is working on sharing an exchange of terminology of external in meta share. And its resources will be used to monitor services both for human and machine users. And then you project analogy as a service task which started. On the 1st of June this year. Um? But

[348.0s - 377.0s]
One more challenges that terminology is developing constantly that come with the terms are Corning. I've been kind every day. And the most recent terminology could be found in text, not in the databases or data banks. And allowed two recent projects. Still there is participating in the first one is coordinated by till there are accurate and to see the first one is about analysis and evaluation of come parable for program. Convertible, corporatism. Text not translated from each other. The original text. And the. The data extracted from these corpora from such corpora is then used in machine translation. Anti Project is about terminology extraction from comparable corpora to save. To be used in computer system tools and machine translation.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So there are. I can say a lot of it, but some of the results very useful and proved already for the further development comparable corpora for more than 10 languages. Reference time listen more than 10 languages. Two big multi level alignment and information extraction from comparable corpora. MIS in classical multi word time detection program. And it is sometimes it's. Open source. Human based tool for terminology, extraction and alignment from comparable corpora.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The project time management already is task. The main idea of this project is to use terminology not only as data, but as a service. It's about establishing the cloud data cloud based sort of platform for acquiring, cleaning up, sharing and then reuse using and reusing mountain angles.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Analogical data yeah, I'm sorry for the quality of this. So terminology is acquired from the web. Then um temps are over. Extracted attempts are identified. Warm recognized with the help of the existence of natural resources with the help of the. Largest turn out terminology, banks, terminology, databases and so on. Then users will get. An environment to work with it to clean it up. Each faces will be built to use this terminology in. Language processing systems.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
One of the I will go back.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
As one of the use cases of this platform for and not only in this project building. Investment in this project was to use terminology to machine translation system adaptation.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And I'm glad too. Present the. Trojan. Which is going to its end already and is successfully has successfully built the platform for. Uploading, sharing and using. Carol text for machine translation adaptation. And recently

[551.0s - 580.0s]
We have up front and experience and experiment. Sorry we adopted them. A statistical machine translation to narrow domain in automatic manufacturing domain. What we have. We had very little. Amount of in demand protest got from client. We have now in demand tax in the source language and the left hand language we have extracted from terms from Terrell TX got from the client. We collected additional convertible text with the help of this terms. And, um. Bilingual Internet terms were attacked and mapped in the text collected. Then we got with TREANDA system. Of course, with all this data with the help of all of these database of that weight and we got up to 32 increase. Of machine translation. Quality Inn in blue against the program ends. Yeah, I'm very glad that I'm before the deadline. Fish actually.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And I would like to finish. My today's presentation with this. Repetition, but I want you to remember from. This the terminology is on the cost between the semantics and language technologies. The terminology bridges the three communities. The terminology has differential to dramatically enhance the degree of automation of leaned over. Technology facilitates the creation of multilingual Anton amazed or ontologies, taxonomies, vocabularies and so on. And the terminology. I wanted to write could help but. In the end, road helps since I believe it. It really helps to automate the creation of multilingual and cross lingual meta data. I will be very glad to join the discussion about technological metadata tomorrow and see you.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Thank you very much for your attention and time.
