Our approach is basically designed to work on Twitter and doesn't rely on the structure or syntactic structure of tweets, nor uses syntactic templates or extend our knowledge sources and state that use it, captured the patterns from tweets based on the context for semantic and sentiment similarities between words. Contextual semantics here refer to the computer virus. This is because it's contextual semantics refer to history class on Greek mythology, for example. Now, our hypothesis is that there might exist some words in tweets and different tweets that share similar contextual semantics, an sentiment and therefore forming patterns or clusters of that of words that convey sentiment. Here is defined jointly by an angle which refer to the prior sentiment of the term dangerous and a radius which indicates that air the degree of correlation between the word dangerous and Trojan horse. On the feature vectors extracted from the circles and the output is a class set of clusters or buttons that share that content, terms or circles of similar sentiment and semantics. So, um sentiment analysis is the task. We compare our semantic sentiment patterns against syntactic features for type of syntactic features, such as unigram, part of speech, tags, Twitter features, and lexicon features. So for tweet level sentiment analysis we the baseline model is a sentiment classifier trained from word unigrams only. As for entity level sentiment analysis, we have somehow similar observation. As I mentioned before, our buttons are extracted from the contextual, semantic and sentiment similarities of words and therefore theoretically they are best when the terms inside the pattern have similar sentiment. So here we in our analysis we tried to. As for conclusion, we propose a new approach for capturing the capturing patterns based on the context for semantic and sentiment of words. We also contacted the Quantitive analysis on a sample of our extracted buttons, an showed that our buttons are strongly consistent with the sentiment of their terms. The problem here is that sentiment is usually conveyed in more subtle or more latent relations or buttons in three or in sentences in general. For example, the word destroyed by its own convey negative sentiment. Tactic button approaches, they rely on the syntactic relation between words that usually used by people to convey sentiment. They are better than traditional approaches, but they have one limitation as well. The semantic button approaches overcome this problem by considering the syntactic and semantic relations between words. Also some semantic based lexicons that have concepts with the associated sentiment, such as Happy Birthday, is a positive. They are better somehow than the traditional sentiment analysis approaches, but again, they are not tailored to Twitter data. Are designed to function on formal text or conventional text that is long enough and well structured, and people who wear ties.