So the neuroscience of reinforcement learning. That is, if you're here for any other reason. I'm not going to talk about the brain in general too much. So Parkinson's disease is caused by the death of dopaminergic neurons. But later it turned on that dopamine is also related to a host of other things, to drug addiction. Some of the influence of alcohol is also through dopamine. Natural rewards in general, learning with natural rewards turns out to. This may be involved in reward or in learning, which is very different from motor control. Dopamine is also involved in working memory and dealing with novel situations, in attention, deficit, hyperactive disorder, and schizophrenia in depression. And then talk about learning and decision making and animals and humans. From shelters, labs showing the same kind of disappearance of the prediction error of the dopaminergic signal after a reward through training. A prediction error, an indeed you see dopaminergic response responses to the stimuli with a size that grows with the predicted reward. So that's what we would expect from prediction error signal. Turning then I'll talk about the most important part, which is dopamine and prediction errors. And so they took the prediction error. Prediction errors if dopamine firing is a prediction error. We wanted learning contingent on prediction errors. Whether neuro scientists actually believe that this is the function of dopamine. Rapidly doesn't distribute itself in the brain. And whether we think they exist in the brain or not. And the first one is actor critic, which which has been associated most with learning in the brain. And this prediction error also feeds into the actor module. Sarsa and Q Learning are two other ways to do model free reinforcement learning and will talk about whether well after we talk about actor critic in the basal ganglia. It turns out that maybe the brain actually does sorceror Q learning, and this is this is 1 area where the brain can teach us a little bit about machine learning because we could basically ask. For this in the brain, I should say this is a very very prominent theory of learning in the brain an I think my opinion and this might be wrong. It's a little small aside to functional imaging and how that helps us look for this kind of evidence, and I'm doing this where I didn't do it for other methods in neuroscience because this is kind of the new wave of research into reinforcement learning in the brain, so it's good for you to know how it's done. It correlate with this prediction error. The ventral stratum was correlated with prediction errors both in the pavlovi and task, so both. So think of animals with their head like that somewhere to the top is dorsal. Straighten up here is the dorsal well. In the instrumental task and not in the pool. Our understanding of learning in the brain in the last two decades or so, yeah. So the first question is a question for you, which is why do we have a brain? As effective after extensive training as it was after moderate training and they check that. So this is model based reinforcement learning. It swims around, finds a nice place to attach to, attaches to a rock. This is the back of the brain. And the world enters into our realm in our knowledge, through sensory processing in the brain. Risk sensitive value learning or or nonlinear utility functions. Comes out motor processing and again huge areas of the brain. So they're kind of smaller parts of the brain, but there are the parts that were interested in which you do the interesting things right. How can reinforcement learning to deal with multiple goals with the fact that there are many problems with the fact that there is maybe hierarchical? How we think about learning in the brain. So what do we know about the brain? In terms of anatomy, we know a lot about what is where in the brain. So they follow structure, not function. Going through them, they were given two different names with their part of the same structure we know today they do very similar things, so you can't always go from name to function, but in general we know a lot about what is, what is where, which areas connected to which area. In terms of single neurons, so the single cells that make up the brain, we also know quite a bit about how they work. Hodgkin Huxley and understanding how neuronal spikes are generated, how neurons send electronic messages to each other. So going from the level of single neurons to networks, we have some ideas how networks work. But in general we're still in the dark. In terms of learning in the brain that really, that's really what we're here for today. So this is 1 area where we know a lot of facts. It's not clear. You should know this because first of all you can take pride an know that you know if you study reinforcement learning. And finally, in terms of function, as I said, we have very coarse grained knowledge of what different brain areas do, but we have to be careful, especially the names are sometimes misleading like you can have neurons in motor cortex that actually respond to color and not to motor. They are animals that behave like animals do, but they're just not people anymore. Let's talk about learning and decision making and why it's related to reinforcement learning. You guys do all day. You sitting right simulations and it's really hard. Welcome neuroscience do for me. So it seems like, well, I started with why do we need so many neuroscience? Brain is a computing device, right? Can we use computational models? To understand the functions of the brain rather than going from structure, we can go from what does it need to compute? It's not like structure, but the abstract theory can miraculously help us organize and interpret all the concrete data that we have, and we don't know how to put together. So this framework really helps us do computational neuroscience in the. How that is realized in the brain, you should always remember that there are three levels of analysis. Then you can ask yourself what's the strategy or what are different strategies. David Marr suggested these three levels and what we're going to talk about today is. What's the hardest problem you face in your life? Everyone of us faces in our. The computational level is optimal decision making. I think that's what he got his Nobel Prize for, not for anything about animal learning. One is this idea of. I don't know if you've heard of Edward Thorndike. So he turned this the law of effect that cat does all kinds of random things and the ones that are most effective in getting the cat to state that is satisfactory that using his words. He called this set once it.