My name is Igor Perisic and I've tried to give you a talk on some dynamics and systems that are empowering social networks. We are the world's largest professional social network online. There's about 161 plus million members or Clinton on the left side you see the curves across time. So it's a tremendous growth. Well, big Data is Quantico, new black. The first one is a data pipeline is really the food, shelter, and clothing of your data application. You have no guarantees of the data arriving into the places where you can compute with it, and when you get there, you need to figure out about data quality. The other aspect for Big Data is it to continue. Its not just about things around the site and the way that I look at it is that you have things that are online essentially from the service perspective. Like for example if you do a profile update so you type in your profile and you say save the next thing should tell you I got the data it's fine, but in order to do that it's transaction in the back and I'm actually blocking on it because if I didn't then you come back and I don't have to update. You wouldn't be too happy about it. Recommended System is a system that selects a product that, if acquired by a buyer, maximizing value for both the buyer and the sellers. 50% of job applications are driven by jobs you may be interested in, and that's the acronyms on the right. And 50% of Group joins are driven by groups you may like. And hopefully the tools that you've built there can be reused across the board. Corporate speech our mission is to connect the word professional to make them more successful. Our vision is to create economic opportunity for every professional in the world and the core value below. Let's look at the overview of the recommendation process and very very very high level. Where are you like where you like to stay? As well, where are you likely to go now that he decided to move so you have this region transition probabilities? The last feature that I will look at is what type of job seeker Ari. Either you are passive receptive or you not a job seeker. You have about a 10X application rate between active job seekers and passive receptive. From some final remarks on job matching is that that. The reason for that is that many people aren't really looking for some reason for that. Many people aren't really looking for a job. Is that it's important not to offend? And finally, you can always get what you want. OK, let's shift to the unreasonable effectiveness of data. Yahoo probably will raise in a sense that a lot of very good engineers of a lot of very good individuals worked at Yahoo and they're working for us at Yahoo is shrinking, so you will see actually these exit's pattern to these different companies. Let's look at where founders come from. So the job is our job market is growing. the Internet, the real estate, and the financial services.