So I'd like to talk to you today about some advancements in recurrent neural networks, again from a more computer science or engineering perspective. They can model very long term dependencies in theory. And the other nice aspect of these models is that you can compute exact gradient information by using the backpropagation through time algorithm. They're powerful, they're complex, but the reality is that training them via the standard gradient descent procedures will often fail on simple sort of toy tasks typically formulated tends to test their ability to maintain memory. Remember very long events from very long time ago, so this is going to be attributed to what's called the vanishing or exploding gradients problem, which was. Focus on today which have different groups of hidden units that operate at different timescales. This actually is a type of sparse connectivity in the recurrent neural network because not all hidden units are connected to other hidden units, and I'll show you a picture of that in a second, so this actually reduces the number of parameters compared to the vanilla RNN. OK, so some of the problems associated with these clockwork RNN's ascentia Lee, you have these very slow units which are inactive over very long periods of time. We apply this to an RNN that's been trained so the original vanilla RNN, and we read out the trace. The updates are faster, you can control overfitting, but you also have sort of explicitly incorporated sort of multiscale temporal dynamics into the network, and that can be advantageous from a modeling perspective. One being this something called the convolutional neural network, which many of you heard about many times already at this conference and on the other side, recurrent neural networks, which I'll be talking about today. Basically we carried out actually the largest cell phone based biometric study with 1500 volunteers who all received the identical phone, which is a Nexus 5 that had 13 sensors and they perform several months of sort of natural usage with these phones and we collected all of the sensor data they signed up for this. And then we're also investigating other types of these neural models and other variants of these dense Clock works on other applications like gesture recognition, activity recognition.