Is that emotion is not a single idea, at least what affective computing should be about is not a single thing that ask for affective computing is to describe multiple connected states of affairs, and I emphasize that they're connected. Responses to overall setting are really powerful. It's often very important to be clear that there is at least a jewel context in operation, often more than that. There are evaluations that we make coolly and reflectively, and that simply feed into our rational awareness of the world. The idea was developed by Nico Frieder in the 1970s, and he argued that a central part of emotion was action readiness. First of all, the things that come easily to memory depend on the way we appraise the situation. I'll start with one that brings relationships with rational awareness squarely into focus. On one side, there's the context of relations with rational awareness. That principle makes people wary of claims about things that happen in our heads, unless we have direct experience of them. It's come into use through Garrett and others to describe a complex of adjustments, mental and physical, that bring us into correspondence with another person. If there are other patterns too, if we recognize the other person's appraisal of us and use that to direct our own appraisal of ourselves, am I really that boring? The charioteer he called Loggos. Building narratives is Akita linking fluid process is and rational awareness. You may wonder what that has to do with computing. The way to understand them and the other bits of experience involved in emotion is to ask what lies behind them. The horses that are always there and always working. Now I couldn't really have titled My Talk here. I'm updating it and calling it the engines of the motion systems that are working away all the time, but that we cheerfully ignore most of the time. Rational awareness sums that up pretty well. People talk about emotion overflowing, or surging or sweeping us along or being stirred up or draining away. The systems that lie behind emotion evaluate states of affairs they prepare us to act on the evaluations they ensure that we learn from significant conjunctions. About that area goes back to Magda Arnold in 1960. She introduced the notion of appraisal, a specialized kind of perception that sums up what you're facing in the environment, not in terms of its shape or position, but in terms of its implications as she put it for our weal or woe. Its primary effect is not to create overt awareness of the situation. He argues that appraisal deals with five broad kinds of issues. Our structural descriptions should fill in. A River can be wonderful and beautiful, but if it parts us from our beloved then it is obstructing our goals.