[0.0s - 29.0s]
So it's very nice to see you all nice to see familiar faces and new faces. I've been told by someone I believe that at talk can at most have one idea or it can at most convey one idea. So my one idea.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Is that emotion is not a single idea, at least what affective computing should be about is not a single thing that ask for affective computing is to describe multiple connected states of affairs, and I emphasize that they're connected. That's why it makes sense to make the point at a workshop on context, because when the elements of a description are connected, then every element is context for every other. And I think that's a really important general point. The thrust of the talk is to work up to a picture of the elements and the way that they are connected, and it really is a single picture. And so I could just go to it now, but you would just go what? 'cause it's rather complicated. So if you permit me, I'll work up to it step by step. They are useful. Starting point is to limit that the problem that the picture that the talk is meant to solve is one that I've written about a lot in in various forms over the past 20 years. Believe it or not. But I still think people underestimating it under estimated and it's finding a useful way to describe emotional life. Now, describing things is not a very glamorous sort of activity. You would much prefer to reveal the underlying nature, but I'm afraid I would need to be a lot cleverer in order to reveal the underlying nature. Getting a useful description turns out to be very hard indeed, at hard enough for me to work at at the moment. The kind of description that I'm interested in, I'll call a structural description. It's a. It's a term that was fashionable when I was an undergraduate 40 years ago. Still a good term. In a nutshell, it means I description that sets out a network of interconnected questions that you ought to consider if you want to identify something. So that means you're not simply attaching a name to a blob, you're trying to fill out a set of questions about this which will eventually allow you to identify it precisely or otherwise may not now in structural descriptions. Everything is contextual knowledge about one part is context. For finding out about others. So I invite you to think about what kind of structural description might work in the domain of emotion and what that means for thinking about context, both external and internal, because the two are actually much more linked than people assume. My own feeling is that psychological research actually suggests quite an obvious framework that we can use for that. And the odd thing is that it's not really routinely put together, at least not to my knowledge. So the particular contribution that I want to make is to make a sketch of what seems to me an obvious framework for describing emotional patterns as extended structures.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
It's probably sensible to begin by saying why I think this kind of framework isn't actually routinely put together, and I think it goes back to Occam's razor. The principle that you should not multiply entities needlessly. That principle makes people wary of claims about things that happen in our heads, unless we have direct experience of them. In the case of emotion, the things that we have direct experience of, emotion, words, emotion, feelings. Emotional expressions and states where people behave in ways that we like to think they wouldn't normally behave. Parsimony says that if those are the things that we have experience of, then those are the things that we should be talking about. Those are the theories that should compose our theories. The problem is that the things we actually experienced don't come together in a satisfying whole. And that pushes us towards accepting, even if we believe Occam, that in this case multiplying entities is necessary, we need to be careful, but we need to do it. And if we're willing to make that step, then I think there is very good reason to see where it takes us, and a very good framework for doing it was introduced. Two and Third 2 1/4 at two and a bit more than two millennia ago by Plato in his famous meta.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Four of the charioteer. Plato famously compared the human being to a chariot. The charioteer he called Loggos. We usually call it intellect. Logos indicates that it's systematic and related to words. The Loggos was an accounting system. Basically that originally so it's intellect is a decendant of accounting. It can reason out what needs to be done, but it can't make it happen. Actually, going anywhere depends on the horses that draw the chariot, and Plato distinguishes 2. One is related to a moral desires, hunger, lust, and so on. I'm sure none of you are familiar with any of those Plato called Eross the other he calls through Moss, which is one of the Greek words that we would we translate as emotion. The underlying meaning is to do with spontaneity, fluent, darting movement. Most of the time, the charioteer keeps the horses pulling on the course that he wants to take, but every so often the horses take over and set their own course, and that later calls pothia. It's what we get the word passion from it is when the priorities of the horses are imposed on the charioteer. Now I don't want to defend the details of the image, I simply want to say it's a Broadway of thinking. That fits a lot of experience, hours as much as.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
My toes. States of pothia are something passion that we all experience and some will say that they are what the word emotion really means. But Plato says, and it's thoroughly sensible, don't try to understand those states in isolation. The way to understand them and the other bits of experience involved in emotion is to ask what lies behind them. Accepting that you don't notice it most of the time, that's the say. The horses that are always there and always working. Now I couldn't really have titled My Talk here. The horses of emotion, but that's really what I'm going to talk about. I'm updating it and calling it the engines of the motion systems that are working away all the time, but that we cheerfully ignore most of the time. Now, once you accept that, I think there's a fairly obvious way of putting research together. It offers a framework that you can use to build structural descriptions and the structural descriptions naturally offer a place for context. So let me move with that background to the middle part of the talk and begin to draw my picture.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And the first thing I think we need to do is is something similar to Plato's division between Charioteer and through Moss. Now there are lots of theories about it. Given that we have some notable psychologists here, they could probably re laugh at least a dozen theories about this division, each without pausing for breath. However, all we want is to separate the systems that control action roughly into two layers, one whose workings were naturally aware of. And one that we know mostly by its outcomes processing in the first layer tends to work in discrete steps which it's natural to be aware of and to put into words. Rational awareness sums that up pretty well. So I'll use that term for the second layer. We don't have an agreed term, but descriptions going back millennia point to a kind of fluid quality. I said through Morse implies a sort of fluent movement. People talk about emotion overflowing, or surging or sweeping us along or being stirred up or draining away. There's an interesting variant of Plato's picture that makes it hydraulic Augustin compared intellect to the captain of a boat with emotions as the wind and waves. It's quite suggestive that fluidity features so often, so slightly provocatively. I'll call that the crazy fluid layer, and if this were. A written paper I would call it effective systems or something like that, but crazy fluid is more fun and more suggestive for computing, too. By the way, it is an interesting medical. OK then.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Second step is about the properties we focus on in the crazy fluid layer. There's a lot that we can't say and we shouldn't be drawn into. But what I think we can talk about is the work that the systems do. One of the achievements of psychology is to realize that focusing on the work that things do actually gets you through a lot of the issues that you want to to solve. I think they ideas can be summed up under 5 main headings. The systems that lie behind emotion evaluate states of affairs they prepare us to act on the evaluations they ensure that we learn from significant conjunctions. They manage alignments with other people, and if the evaluation demands they interrupt, reflective process is when I say engines of emotion. I mean systems that carry out those functions in a way that's unlike stepwise. Verbal processing as I've said, crazy fluid seems as good a description as any. Now I hope you can see how that ties up with the idea of a structural description. The kind of description that I have in mind spells out what those engines are doing at any given time, what they're evaluating, how they're evaluating it, what preparations follow, the way they're aligning a person with other people, and how all that is impacting on rational awareness. It seems to me that practically what we want emotion recognition's mission systems to do is to give us a handle on those things, and I'll come to other kinds of description. That we need to use, but describing those is a basic core of what we want to say about in episodes involving emotion. So I've named five times of work that the engines of emotion do, but of course simply naming them doesn't take us very far forward. A framework for describing emotional states need to spell out what the questions under each heading are, and there's a lot of research that helps us to do that. And in reviewing that I'll be saying a lot of things that people are familiar with. I think what is perhaps unfamiliar is the idea that all of this goes together. Reasonably neatly and easily. So let me start with evaluation contemporary thinking.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
About that area goes back to Magda Arnold in 1960. She introduced the notion of appraisal, a specialized kind of perception that sums up what you're facing in the environment, not in terms of its shape or position, but in terms of its implications as she put it for our weal or woe. Its primary effect is not to create overt awareness of the situation. It's to drive the other elements that I've described. Preparation, alignment and so on. The theory of appraisal has developed enormously since Arnold and I'm not going to attempt to review, but I will sketch a version that I think is an excellent reference point, and it comes from Klaus Scherer. He argues that appraisal deals with five broad kinds of issues. Those give us lots that are. Our structural descriptions should fill in. Other alternatives are very good at other things, but closest fits into the framework of asking what the tasks are OK. The first is novelty. More specifically, the issue is whether there's something in our surroundings that it might matter to know more about. Several factors feed into that kind of appraisal whether something has changed suddenly, whether it's familiar or not, whether it's predictable or not. 2nd is pleasantness. The sense that things or situations are fundamentally positive or negative that goes very deep in human experience an almost everyone agrees that it's at the core of emotion, but it's also peculiarly challenging from a computational point of view. An algorithm that decided whether things were pleasant would be a very interesting creature indeed. Indeed, if anyone has one, I would love to know, and I would use it in the selection of birthday presents. However. Gold significance is of degree easier to rationalize. It separate from pure pleasantness. A River can be wonderful and beautiful, but if it parts us from our beloved then it is obstructing our goals. Coping potential also pulls in link directions to take a famous example from William James. Imagine that we turn around a corner in our walk in the Woods and there is a bear and I won't since we're on camera, imitate the bear. Not it's novel, not what we expected. It's also not pleasant, and it gets in the way of our goals. But the same could be said if it was an aggressive mouse in front of us, or even Ursula's cat. Ursula understands that if no one else does. The difference is that we can deal with anything that the mouse can throw at us. That's what makes the bear a different proposition, and that difference changes the whole feel of our response to it. That's coping potential. Last but not least, is what she recalls. Compatibility actually has different terms at different forms of the theory, but that's by the by. It's to do with what's permissible according to our own criteria or other peoples, and the classical example is that embarrassment. Is what happens when we violate standards that other people hold. Shame is what happens when we violate our own. I'll mention that that links back to Plato for Plato. What made through most different from a moral desire, was that it was bound up with moral standards. Dumas is sensitive to moral standards, so is what we normally call emotion. As I said, that kind of description, I think provides a really good reference point. It breaks down evaluations in a way that makes sense and seems fairly comprehensive. However. I assume that everyone in this audience will have notice something that I conspicuously haven't talked about. I'm.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
What I haven't talked about is what the evaluations are about, and one of the reasons why I'm happy to talk about context is it brings that issue to the four. I remember vividly my much missed philosophical friend, Peter Goldie, insisting that emotions were essentially about something, and he despaired of people who tried to describe emotions without considering what they were about, and he has a point. By the way, that goes back to David humours interesting philosophical tradition, but at the very least, knowing what evaluations are about helps you to infer what they are likely to be. And evidence of what the evaluations are helps you to infer what they're likely to be about. It's a classic sort of interactive activation situation. Now. The issues here are really quite hard to structure, but I think it's hard. It's useful to start with a situation that's often taken for granted, and then suggest why we shouldn't stop there. So here's the situation that's taken for granted. Like the one that James famously described.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
My pair. Emotion is centered in that case on something right in front of you. A concrete focus of emotion. Shearer's account of appraisal has details that are oriented towards that kind of situation. For instance, to do with the sequence of appraisal checks, and they make sense in that kind of case. But there are others to consider, and they involve two kinds of contrast. The first kind of contrast is an old psychological Chestnut figure and ground. The bear is the figure. But before you registered what it was that was ambling towards you in the shadows, your emotion was probably swept away by the ground. A global of.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Awareness of the sunny Woodlands that you were ambling through and there seem to be particular kinds of evaluation that apply to ground rather than figure. They tell you this is a secure place or a pleasant place, or in awe inspiring place or a nice day or a terribly enclosed little place to be listening to this man. In. You know, all sorts of variations on the theme. I think that's linked to what people call Mood rather than emotion in a narrow sense, but there are tricky issues there that I certainly won't go into with distinguished psychologists in front of me. However, it is surely true that our structural descriptions need to give us the option of saying that people are smiling because it's a nice day, not because they like the particular things that they're in front of, or the particular people that they're talking to. Responses to overall setting are really powerful. And much ignored. The second kind of contrast is between things that are part of your physical environment, the landscape if you like, and things that are part of your mindscape and the mindscape.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Be about events. In our past. The gun I left behind me or are.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Future, I don't think I need to comment on that. They can also deal with imaginary pasts and presents and futures. And actually I think that was the case with James's story. The actual present was more like.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Lee Listener and James liked his attentive listeners, the immediate past, a bottle of fondle which I have on good authority was James his favorite tipple and the future. Thinking he shouldn't go on too long about this, 'cause he had other things to do that evening. Maybe Clara, but would be singing that's Clara, but the first person to sing land of hope and glory so there. Emotions can be about any of those parts, and it's important that our structural descriptions include slots that let us say this frown is about something the speaker is remembering, not about the listener, and the smile that comes next is about the listener, not about the remembered event. And we came across that pattern a lot when we were working on conversations. It's often very important to be clear that there is at least a jewel context in operation, often more than that. There's a very well known appraisal scheme due to autoniq Lauren Collins that addresses a lot of those issues, but they are packed into a particular format, so I think it would be useful to draw them out and put them in a format that incorporates a lot more issues. However, that's another point. What I've said is very much scratching the surface. The relationship between emotion and states of affairs can be frighteningly dynamic and abstract. There's also a complex relationship between the focus of conscious awareness and the focus of a person's emotions. What someone is not looking at, or who someone is not looking at can speak, but that's getting subtle. I simply want to say that it matters to know what the emotion is about. And our structural description should make sure that we ask the obvious questions and that we ask enough questions. That brings me to my second major heading.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Which is preparation? Perhaps the first thing to say about it is that it is not separate from evaluation. There are evaluations that we make coolly and reflectively, and that simply feed into our rational awareness of the world. I guess that's what happens when I'm evaluating two different algorithms that I might use in a program, and I guess one saves one second or something, not going to excite me. The point about the evaluations that are linked to emotion is that they're not like that. They set us up to deal with the situation as appraisals read it. And this may well be the area where research has changed our thinking. Most recently, my term preparation covers a huge range of levels and it's hard to know where to start. Perhaps historic order is as good as any, and that suggests we start with.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Aristotle. Aristotle famously defined anger as an impulse accompanied by pain, to a conspicuous revenge for a conspicuous light directed without justification towards what concerns oneself or one's friends wonderful definition. You'll notice that there are obviously elements in there that are appraisal, like, but there's also a distinctive kind of preparation of pattern of action that has been pre prepared, and that we feel is just waiting to be let off the leash. The idea was developed by Nico Frieder in the 1970s, and he argued that a central part of emotion was action readiness. Anger involves readiness to hit out as Aristotle notice. Fear involves readiness to runaway. Happiness involves readiness to celebrate, and so on. It's not just A wish. What you feel is that your body is set up to take the action. If you decide to let it, and that reflects preparation at the motor level. Appraisal has mobilized motor plans that govern a particular kind of action and sets the body in a position to launch the action. A second kind of appraisal has similarly long history. Augustine, who was a very substantial philosopher as well as a St, made some insightful points about it, though his vocabulary was different, it involves effects on bodily systems that we have less control over, broadly speaking, visceral. Appraisals affect your heart, your blood vessels, your breathing, your bladder, your bowels, and your sweat glands and theorists around the end of the 19th century, beginning of the 20th recognized that those those were all preparations setting you up for a particular kind of activity. Some of them are not actually functional. The sweat on your palms and soles of your feet is supposedly about preparing you to swing through the trees and escape a predator, and that's not particularly useful in your banana at the moment. However, that's a detail. The broad picture is that they are part of a system wide preparation. Beyond those are two sutler levels of preparation of very far reaching kind of preparation is biochemical. The best known kinds involve hormones, so actually it goes wider to give a very crude sketch. Meet meeting James is bear in the Woods, would release adrenaline and noradrenaline, orapin, ephrin, and norepinephrine. If you're American, they have different hormones. You know, Americans? These are hormones that prepare you for high energy activities with a slightly different balance. Choosing a goal and achieving it releases dopamine, which sets you up to learn from the experience. Interesting questions about exactly how, but I won't go into that. Warm relationships release oxytocin, which sets you up to engage with the other person and deprivation of relationships lowers oxytocin levels and sets you up to seek the. Relationships stress releases cortisol, which sets you up to conserve energy for essential tasks. It burns up, fat resolves and roots energy to your brain and not to muscles. Or Interestingly, your immune system and there's a lot of interesting stuff on that going on at the moment. An article in Nature last year, I think starting to clarify the pathways by which emotion influences the immune system. Definitely a space to watch. Even that doesn't finish the picture of preparation in response to appraisal, there's a wide range of effects on cognition that are well known, and it seems to me we should naturally understand under the heading of preparation. First of all, the things that come easily to memory depend on the way we appraise the situation. If you're sad things that happen to you when you were sad come easily to mind. If you're happy things that happened to you when you were happy similarly come easily to mind. And so your mind has access to the things that happened in situations that you are praised similarly and you will be likely to draw conclusions based on what the fluid system thinks is relevant information. Similar things happen with the present. The dominant appraisal prepares you to notice things that fit it. If you're happy, you notice happy faces. If you are threatened, you notice threatening events. It's called weapon focus. You notice the fist that is coming towards you and nothing else. With that, go changes in readiness to find out fear sets you up to withdraw sharply at any unexpected stimulus, rather than setting yourself up to check it out, it's called the startle reflex. It also reduces readiness to engage in processing that takes time, and mental resource is, for instance, making sense of a message that's at all complex. So if you started this talk scared stiff, you probably aren't understanding a word and maybe then. Well, no, let's not go there. So happiness increases. Willingness to explore, fear reduces it, and so on. In all these ways and more appraisal sets up the input to conscious awareness in a way that is in line with what it thinks conscious awareness is going to need. Link to some of those your estimates of risk shift to fit your appraisal of the situation. If you appraise the environment positive positively or you appraise your own coping potential highly, then it produces a global shift towards thinking that risks are low. The opposite happens if you have negative appraisals of both the environment and coping potential. Now, I hope that when I've said this, it seems obvious, and yet it isn't something that people put at the center of their descriptions of emotion. But surely it fits everyday experience as well as experimental evidence. The engines of emotion make sure that we're equipped to go in the directions that they think we need to go. Perhaps a little like the Chamberlain who lays out the King's robes and papers for the morning, his jousting kit for the afternoon, his towels and bandages for the evening, and silk pajamas for the night. Of course, a huge part of the reason why we want to know about a person's emotional state in computing is becausw. We want to know about just these preparations in a teaching situation, we may want to know whether the person is recoiling for problem problems rather than engaging with them, and if that is what matters. Other signs that point to fear are effectively, contextual information that allow us to make that core judgment that we're interested in. In a surveillance situation, we might want to detect readiness to launch into physical violence and so on. In those settings, other questions about emotions are means to an end, and our theories should help us to be clear about that and not push us to assume that the only game in town is categorizing the global emotion state. That's an important part of the picture, but it may not be the focus. That leads me to my neck.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Major question heading, which is learning there's a significant tradition that sees learning as the central function of emotion is represented by Sylvan Tompkins in the mid 20th century, and Ed rules at the end. If that surprises you, think of conditioning, which is a singularly powerful form of learning. It takes 2 forms, classical conditioning links to stimuli so that one which was originally neutral takes on meaning that was. Attached to the other operant conditioning links, a stimulus to a response so that presenting the stimulus elicits the response. In both cases, learning depends on something that marks that link as important and it's called reinforcement. Reinforcement is intimately bound up with emotion. In fact, head rolls proposes that add that emotion should be defined as something that is capable of producing reinforcement. That's an interesting twist. In classical conditioning, what drives learning is discovering that both stimuli predict something that is emotionally significant, like getting a nice juicy dinner in Pavlov's original experiments in operant conditioning, it's the fact that a particular sequence of stimulus and response produces an emotionally positive outcome. Now you'll notice that that bit on learning links up with the functions I've discussed already marking particular connections are significant is about preparing an individual to respond appropriately next time a stimulus appears and it's in line with the evaluative functions of emotion that it's involved in. Picking out conjunctions that matter. It also goes further. Classical conditioning adjusts the evaluation mechanisms so that what was a neutral event. Comes to be evaluated as positive or negative and operant conditioning changes. The kinds of preparation that appraisal will trigger. The really interesting issues about this, but what I want to say is very basic. It's just that our structural descriptions ought to flag up learning issues as something that is quite central in an emotionally charged situation. It is likely that various connections are being reinforced or extinguished. Is your avatar. Reinforcing interest in your website or reinforcing an aversive response to it. That kind of question should obviously be on our agenda. And for every speaker, of course it should be on the agenda and looking round. I'm glad I'm coming to the end of this bit. I have two more headings left. Both take you out of internal adjustments into action. I'll start with one that brings relationships with rational awareness squarely into focus. It was highlighted in a book by my former supervisor, Keith Oatley, and he called it Interrupt. Actually, that was Herb Simon's term, but that's another matter. It's about seizing control whoops.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Yeah, it's about seizing control from rational awareness to talk about that, you need at least a simple model of the situation where rational awareness is in control, and I've just put up a very simple model. Indeed, I'll say that in the normal run of things, emotional preparation primes, various resource is so that it's easy for rational awareness to see their may be relevant, and to use them if it wants to. In that situation, we may feel the urge to run or to hit or to dance, but if reason decides that they're not appropriate, then they stay in the background. And that's a nice simple model. But in reality, fluid process is aren't that passive. Their function includes contesting control with conscious decision making that is interrupt. The simplest interrupt.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Is when an urge becomes strong enough to take control and push rational decisions aside using James is example return a corner in the Woods, find ourselves face to face with a bear, and we're running before we think about it. Interrupting an emergency situation can kick in without asking permission from rational awareness. But emergency isn't the only kind of interrupt by a long way. Keith Oakley says the general cases where emotional process is evaluate an activity that is governed by rational awareness, and decide that that activity isn't working, isn't in line with the demands of the situation. In that situation, it's functional to interrupt the activity and create a space to revisit the goals that rational awareness has been pursuing and free us to change them if need be so that we feel after listening to this talk. I really don't want to go on with affective computing if that's what it's like. That's an emotional response, which allows you to see that the plans you had laid are not working as expected. Emergency action and re evaluation are useful functions, but everyone knows that their functions that can go wrong emotion can disrupt rational thought by bombarding it with too many ideas and urges or catapult us into inappropriate emergency action. The ancients had graphic names for those states perturb at Ionis. I love that Cicero talked about part robot Ionis stiring up affect. EO was actually at the same in origin. It's something that is done too. Conscious awareness. I think it's a pity that we've lost some of those nice graphic descriptions, but there we go. Coming back to the structural description.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
There's a reasonably simple issue to Mark is emotion in full control, or is it trying to achieve control but held in check? Or are the engines of emotion working seamlessly with conscious decision making? Those are not Isa terric questions, they are very much the sort of thing you would want to know about a person that you were working with. As usual, the issues closely bound up with context. On one side, there's the context of relations with rational awareness. I'll say more about that soon. In the other direction, when there's a clear interrupt, it usually indicates that something in the context is triggered it, and if you don't know what it is, you better find out 'cause the bear might be behind you. That brings me to my last heading, which is alignment. I've attached names to the other headings and the obvious name to attach to. This is Darwin whoops. Here he goes.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
The in 1882. I.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
I lost a slide, never mind.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Here we go.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
The bear was behind me. It was pressing the buttons. I knew something was happening, right? I've attached names to the other headings and the obvious name too attached to this one is Darwin. In 1872, Darwin pointed out the close connection between emotion and patterns of behavior that influence other organisms, and that's separate from his ideas about emotional evolution, which I think were overplayed. I hope most people now would agree that obviously Evolution provides a substrate and obviously experience restructures it. Given what I've said about learning. You can hardly avoid that. I think the simplest way to put it is that the engines of emotion in different people are more or less constantly communicating with each other to a large extent, the process bypasses rational awareness. I don't need to think about the way you feel in order to register it and adjust it to a large extent. They adjustment involves particular signs, facial expression, tone of voice, gesture, posture, and so on. It takes various forms. I've mentioned I've used a line.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Moment is the general one, general term. It's come into use through Garrett and others to describe a complex of adjustments, mental and physical, that bring us into correspondence with another person. For emotion, the correspondence may involve similarity, for instance, that would be the norm and happiness or complementarity, for instance, responding to sadness with concern or consolation, less subtle kind of adjustment is called contagion. Where we simply seem to catch the other person's emotion more more often the emotions of a group. If there are other patterns too, if we recognize the other person's appraisal of us and use that to direct our own appraisal of ourselves, am I really that boring? And or else our appraisal system evaluates what the other person is prepared to do and prepares us to respond. Learning has huge effects on these functions, and so it's deadly to assume that they are the same across cultures, which is also important for affective computing. It seems clear that the.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
At that interaction, or at least the thought of interaction is a powerful amplifier for emotion at lots of levels, and for that reason, people like Brian Parkinson say that emotion is essentially social. I think that's pushing it, but you can see the point. Certainly sociability is essentially emotional, and that raises a huge range of questions. I think probably best to leave them to you to think about for later. At the other end, there are some very new implications. For instance, when we try to build systems that will interact with us in complex ways, they know that they have to take account of the involuntary adjustments that the human party will make, as well as purely rational exchanges of information. And if they don't make those adjustments, the interactions really can breakdown. I don't know how often I've nearly switched off from my mother because her phone has an app that says. I am trying to put you through and I think no everytime terrible. OK what I've tried to do is to give some impression of the way we might build an extended description of the engines of emotion. As I said at the beginning, focusing on the work they're doing rather than anything subtler, but looking back at the metaphor, I started with Plato's. I hope it's obvious we can't stop there. Plato's image highlights the importance of relationships between the horses. And the chariot here a lot of work, old and recent indicates that those relationships are much more intricate than people generally realize. They depend on several kinds of structure that sit between pure emotion and pure reason, and a satisfying structural description needs to bring those intermediate structures into the picture as well. I'm only going to touch on them, but I think it's important that we do touch on them. I'll start. With.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Or types of structure that have a high profile in philosophy, but the psychologists in computer science tend not to talk about much. Then I'll finish onto that. Psychologists and computer scientists certainly do talk about and I hope suggest useful perspectives on. The first is bound up with the function I've already mentioned, that is interrupt.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
It's completely standard to say that what blocks an attempted interrupt or allows it to happen is the will. I don't think we have any clue what a will actually is, but we certainly know that it takes effort, and some people seem better at exerting it than others, and those are issues that probably should be in our structural description. It matters whether a person is holding back an explosive impulse by sheer force of will, and whether you can expect them to go on doing that for very long. The second structure.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Also involves. A familiar term for something very puzzling that is desire. The term is established in computing because BDI models of thought that's belief, desire, intention are really quite widely used. The models involve reasoning like process is and that assumes that desire is the kind of thing that can enter into reasoning process and so, by the way, did David Hume whoops, sorry, several centuries ago. And I think that's right, but I think it's only one side of the coin. The other side of the coin is that it desire resonates with the engines of emotion, particularly positive evaluations and preparations aimed at gratifying it. You might say it crystallizes emotional patterns into a form that reason can work with. Again, it's often important to know whether an action or a plan is driven by desire or just a decision to go in a certain direction or. Uncrystallized unformed feelings. There are quite different situations. The third struck.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Sure is similar. In some ways. A 2 sided coin. It involves moral codes and that links back to Plato for him. Sensitivity to moral values was a defining feature of through Moss. In his view, through Moss is sometimes more sensitive to model and issues than intellect. His example was that righteous anger may carry us to do the right thing when the intellect would drawback, Hume argued that moral codes grew out of desires, but I think it's more realistic to think of them as parallel. Both crystallized out of fluid emotional patterns. Moral codes also feedback into emotion. Emotions like shame involved seeing that we have violated our own immoral code. The.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Last structure goes back to Peter Goldie, whom I mentioned earlier. His last book had a title that I am so jealous of the mess inside. His point was that experience leaves a jumble of memories with powerful emotional charges and we need to order it. He argued that a key way of doing that was embedding it in narratives. Narratives show how one thing followed from another. Why that's to be expected and accepted for him. Building narratives is Akita linking fluid process is and rational awareness. It lets us understand that if someone feels like this. Then this is probably what they'll do, and this is likely to be why. You may wonder what that has to do with computing. If so, look at programs like Fear, not an Carmine's bright idea, which are all about helping people to build emotionally potent narratives to deal with difficult situations. I think it matters that are structural description lets us see that building potent narratives and accessing potent narratives belongs fairly and squarely within the field. At this point I'll step into territory that's more familiar in some ways, but I've left it lost because it allows us.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
To come from a different angle and avoid being lulled into a false sense of security that involves two kinds of state, two kinds of area, the first area is feeling, or rather the distinctive kind of feeling that we recognize as emotional. The angle I've approached it from sets up a way of looking at it that I think is very powerful. Feeling is another intermediate structure, a representation that lets conscious awareness register in a very imprecise way. What is happening in systems that it neither fully controls nor fully understands? And that's absolutely not a new idea. It was in Descartes's much maligned essay on the passions. It's part of William James is 1884 theory of the emotions Jerry Clore and his colleagues argued that feelings were information that conscious awareness could use. Linked to emotional evaluations of the situation for Gus, elaborated the model. And so on. Those ideas tend to be set in opposition. I want to say that the obvious reason is that they're all reading. Is there all near the mark but incomplete feelings are a compressed representation of the myriad of things that the engines of emotion are doing now. There's obviously much more to the story. Tompkins made the point that feeling is reinforcing will work to achieve certain kinds of feeling that obviously links to other parts of my picture. The medium has some properties that I don't think we understand at all. Notably when we listen to music, there are feelings of warmth or chill light and darkness, tension and stability, planes tilting and sliding vastness and pettiness. It's like a second language of awareness, one that are reflective systems find profoundly foreign, but they can draw some key messages from and. All that obviously has implications for research that focuses on feeling, for instance. Research that uses instrument, like the fields trace system that we developed. Alas, I can only mention that and move on. That brings me finally to the place where people tend to start.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Which is the system.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Categories that we used to talk about emotion expressed in words like fear and anger and happiness. We should also include the word emotion itself and its predecessors. Right back to Plato's through more sympathie and I hope that what I want to say about it almost doesn't need to be said. The possible states of the engines of emotion and the intermediate structures linked to them define a state with a huge number of dimensions. Everyday language can't handle that kind of structure directly. So it has to chop the space up into regions and give each regional label. There's alot of arbitrariness about the Chapel there chopping, that's why. It's nightmarish, translating Plato's terms into modern English and a modern as a matter of interest is even worse. Trying to translate Biblical Hebrew emotional terms into modern English. Of course, machines need to deal with the words if they are to communicate with people, but we shouldn't think that the words are the heart of the matter. Anymore than feelings are, both are about making the engines of emotion at least partly intelligible to conscious language oriented awareness and are also part of the way that they control it. Because understanding and control go very much together in that area. Now I'm a kid.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Nuclear, where that what I've been doing is also about making the engines of emotion at least partly intelligible to conscious language oriented processing, and I would be the first to acknowledge that it involves a drastic summary and various kinds of arbitrariness, and I'll be very happy if other people take it up and improve it. Nevertheless, I think there is enough there to suggest we could share this kind of description as a reference point. If nothing else, I think it helps to break away from the temptation to draw pictures. There are just too small to take in the multiple things that go to make up emotional life. Not least the fact that emotion is about things and therefore if you are serious about understanding a person's emotion, ignoring the context is simply not an option. Thank you.
