So you know, a lot of machine learning involves classification, regression, clustering, and things like that. We assume we have a data set D sub N consisting of N data points and it was generated from some true parameter value data star. But we observe the same data now. Assume that we both agree on the set of possible and impossible values of Theta. Select a model class is neither too simple nor too complex, so we can. That are either too simple or too complex just by computing the marginal likelihood and the argument comes from the conservation argument where any any probabilistic model with some. So, you know, we're trying to be coherent and honest about uncertainty, right? That's part of the goal. There is a really nice rational process for model building and for adding domain knowledge, and that's not true if you. So one of the things people obsess about a lot is where does the prior come from? Um, OK, then there's a subjective Bayesian approach where we're trying to capture our beliefs as well as possible. And there are empirical Bayesians where they're sort of being Bayesian, except they've got a few parameters and they try to optimize those parameters. Question people might ask is how do we know our beliefs? Well, this is a difficult question, but you know really, it involves thinking about the problem domain. So this is going to come to a point I'm about to make so we really have no black box view of machine learning if we have to think about each problem domain separately. Right, and so the idea here is, if I want to solve problem A, it seems silly to use some general purpose method that was never designed for a, so I should really try to understand what problem A is, learn about the properties of the data, uses much expert knowledge as I can only then should I think of designing a method to solve a. OK. So I mean, how do we build the Bayesian black box you know, can we meaningfully create Bayesian black boxes? But but. You know what should the prior be? We put code online, but how can we advocate people blindly using them? So if I put code online, I have some beliefs about the kind of people who are going to download that and the kind of datasets they're going to run it on. But that's fine, that's fine for the case study view where you're going to peek at the data. Yeah, I mean, I think I think that's a valid point. Yeah yeah, I mean there we would like to what we would like to do is to be able to characterize the space of possible problems so that new method can look at properties of the problem and know what kind of prior to use in that case. But really, you know, take a Canonical problem like linear classification. Linear boundary, and rather than thinking of it as some sort of optimization problem, we can think about it as the problem of inferring some unknown quantity like these parameters from the data so as to predict future labels. Division and, you know, just roughly speaking, we can think of parametric models as having a finite dimensional or finite and fixed number of parameters Theta. And So what happens is, given those parameters, the predictions are independent of the data, so the parameters in a parametric model capture all the structure in the data. Nonparametric model is sort of, roughly speaking, allow the number of parameters or to grow with the data set size or the effective number of parameters grows with the data set size. Or Alternatively we can think of them as having predictions that depend on the data. That your data comes from a finite number of mixture components. So this is kind of a scientific or philosophical reason. Is nonparametric's the only way to go? So when do we really believe our parametric model? So we use approximate inference. But the problem is we often can't control the effect of our approximate inference. So there's a sort of idea of reconciling Bayesian and frequentist views. You know there's a lot of texts on this slide, but you know the frequentist theory is based on different different sorts of things than Bayesian theory. You look at sampling properties of estimators. Bayesian methods are tend to look at things like expected loss under the posterior. You generally don't make use of optimization except with the point at which decisions are made, and there are some reasons why frequentist procedures are useful for Bayesians. Communicate. Convert base in a. Cons and pros of Bayesian methods. We often hear that their subjective people hate that. It's hard to come up with the prior. Well, that's true for any modeling, and all modeling involves some assumptions. So the closed world assumption is bit problematic when you're writing down your prior. You need to consider all possible hypothesis for the data before observing the data. So how can we convert the Pagan majority of machine learning researchers to bayesianism, right? You would give an, you know, the motivation I and I'm sure all of you also give for doing this is that we can apply the basic rules of probability to doing this sort of learning. Rules are we apply it in the context of machine learning and we think of computing posteriors over unknown quantities given the data by multiplying some likelihood by some prior an renormalizing an we can do model comparison. Should all machine learning be Bayesian an you know if we think the answer is yes, then why isn't it that so they will come to that later? So one of the arguments is that if we want a system to behave intelligently, it should represent beliefs about propositions in the world, and we want to represent the strength of those beliefs numerically in the brain of some artificial agent, like a robot for example. The strength of belief to be somewhere between zero and one where zero is that X is definitely not true, whereas one is that X is definitely true and we write down conditional beliefs. They must satisfy the rules of probability theory including Bayes rule, so this is one way we can justify. And if our strength of belief is .9, then we're willing to accept a bet where if X is true, we win anything greater than or equal to $1. Unless our beliefs, our strength abli satisfied the rules of probability theory, including Bayes rule, then there exists a set of simultaneous bets called a Dutch book which you would be willing to accept, but which for which you're guaranteed to lose money no matter what the outcome is.