[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so my name is special come from ASW which is. University of Texas and. Interchange format is developed within the framework of the Logs 2 project, so this is linking open data and the slogan of this project is kind of creating knowledge or interlinked data. So it's all about creating RDF and then making things over and over until operable, operable and about data integration.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
First of all, I would like to give a definition of what what I'm talking about. The first thing is then appear interchange format, which is an RDF, although based format that allows to combine and change several natural language processing and RP tools in a flexible and lightweight way. The second thing is an appeal to RDF. Which is the accompanying Rudy 2 project which provides a documentation, then reference implementations for notes. Kind of a collaboration platform. Also tutorials, example, source code and mailing lists. Possible to join on another P2 Ry after work. If you go to that page, we're kind of moving there right now. So kind of links to the old resources which were spread over several sides. So during this talk.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So I'll just kind of the motivation why such an interchange format or what advantages such an interchangeable in as an hour compared our roofing comparison. Another analogy, frameworks. Then I'll talk about your ID sign. Um? And then about Inipi domain, will capillaries drive like a conceptual interoperability and at the end I'll talk still available?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So the general problem. Is that normally and a piece of hers organized? The pipelines examples here are Yuma and Gate. This means that the integration the software integration is done hardwired, so if you have a tool then you have to develop the software adapter to integrate it into the framework. And the drawback here is of course that for each pool and each framework you have to develop such an adapter. So it's 10 times and. Yeah. It also means that there is no ad hoc integration because we need the developer. Then Furthermore, it's also difficult to aggregate output. And it's difficult to exchange single components. Very often the pipelines also not robust. Step 6, for example, of steps of 20 steps fails, then no output is produced at all, or maybe step 7 expects different input from auto.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Inform Step 6 which is not given. So we're calling mine made a comparison of current and frameworks. So there are steps Sergei doubt on HG or new email, and then you kind of. Now analyze them according.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
All those criterions. Let's have a look at this. So these there are criterions, it's typed annotation, annotation type inheritance and alternative annotation. So. Basically, annotations mean you can type the. You can assign a type of annotation. Will you have to the actual annotations you have designed? And the second one is that you have annotation type inheritance, so you have a hierarchy. You have maybe like a subclass inference, and if you think about this, this is already included in RDF and all the. It comes per default, so there's already a time where statement and subclass. Often you can have all is a fragment of predicate logic, like a decidable fragment. And so you have all all those formalisms already tackled with earlier and all. And here I think you emailed developed the type inheritance some years ago and it was like French, very brand new feature mercerizing.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Um? Yeah, the next the next criterion are the processing resource interchangeability, language resource interchangeability in excess structured interchangeability. I'm now here. I wondered why my colleague actually used interchangeability because he actually meet interchangeable and interchangeable. Um, which means that. Within the framework you can maybe exchange one part of speech tagger for another, but you cannot, for example use a gate plugin and use it in you email. So there's no, there's only interchange interchangeability but no interchangeability. I think there's one exception. I've heard that if there is a gate plugin which is written in C++, you might be able to use it in Tip store, so this is the exception for this.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So here I sketched the NLP interchange format like the integration architecture. It's a client server, models in the middle you have like the client. And the client has a local database which is some cardiac Warcraft based. That database and triple store. So the client then sends the document out to different and the tools. And retrieves back the RDF, so the annotated annotated annotated document and can aggregate the output in his local local RDF store. I'm now on the top side. There are wins that cause. The idea is that if you have a tool and if you give it, if it takes the same input and produces the same output then you can interchange it with another tool that produces takes the same input and produce the same output. This is 1 idea behind the interchange format and on the right side I. Sketch some language resources. Oh no, no, not language resources. I think the bottom is word net, but it could have been also. Um? No dictionary or some other language resource, and in the middle is DPR, which is contains data from Wikipedia. So this is actually fact knowledge about the world, and because this has the same format it can also be easily integrated into the same local client RDF model. And then not processed.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Then one challenge for the interchange point was how actually to address the strings with your eyes. Because RDF is based on your eyes, so first first thing you need to do is design your eyes. Our resources where you can do. Statements about. So here I highlighted. This is the third occurrence of semantic web on the web page by timber timber honestly. And this is a web page, so it's made in HTML. But if you look underlying what is underlying this text format so you can open it in a text editor and then you kind of need to assign an identifier or like that pinpoints exactly to this location within the document. And I think this is also the same problem that my assignment had. If you kind of use, let's say begin, begin index and end index to identify this part. Conversely, decides to change the first word in this document. Then all the annotations will break.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So here. ISM. Are the two you are asking is that are used in the in a filter change form and so the first is the one I mentioned with begin index and index service. Semantic web Truss highlighted goes from index 14,406 to 14,418, but if one character before that changes then all the annotations will will not be valid anymore. In this case, it's used as a fragment identifier. I just see your eye above and then Frank the hash and then you could let the fragment idea of the document. But this version has a quick advantage. It's easy to handle, so if you have an empty tool, it can easily handle this format. It can parse it, or pinpointed very, very efficient. Now the second version is a little bit more complicated with this based on. And five hash. So first you have also an identifier again. Which is hash. Then you have the context, context length, so this is the four characters in this case, before and after some dimension of semantic web in the document. Then you have the total string length with which is 12 and then you have the MD 5 hash and after that human readable strings. Phone. And this version actually is more stable becauses just considers the local context is still unique so it can pinpoint the exact location of the string. But if something before that will change, then this URL is to be valid. And I think these are problems that also as Uncle might also have like. You need to kind of. Assign the translation to certain point part of the document and if it changes, you will have to check whether the translation is still better. For exactly this part.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So now here. Here is some annotations done as shown, like a graphical view of the offender change form. The sense here is not displayed to the top right. The sentence. My favorite actress is Natalie Portman. So yes, I know you are. I put this in this case. This one sentence is also equal document because it's in this case it's the same. So first you assign the UI to like the whole string as such. So this is here with the offset. From zero to 39 characters, type it as document and on the bottom there are now two different tools that added annotation to this basic model. So first on the left side you have the snowball stemmer. Which added to the annotation. The stem in this case, which you see on the lower left. And so this is just one fact that is added to this UI. Describing this resource and the middle, you have the output of the Stanford parser. So here on the bottom right to see the part of speech tag JJ. In this case, this means adjective, and on the bottom I'll come to this later is. And the class and RDF, RDF type triple, which is from earlier the ontologies of linguistic annotations. And I'll explain this later, but the the idea of why or the. The reason why this merger is this big cause. Both tools used the same your ice cream. So at the right side to see how how the RDF is, just merge just concatenated and then. Yeah, the integration was done.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So overall, on one point all I just fixed, we just fixed the version number I produce. Provides your eye recipes to annotation some documents and ontologies to describe the relations between these your eyes like substring of relation. And also vocabularies for certain Iapetus and domains and year.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Explain local about the ontologies of linguistic annotations. So every language normally has his own tag set like part of speech texter and they are normally quite cryptic in this case. On the bottom you see the shortcut to bring our text set which uses P .2 annotated attribute attribute if demonstrated pronouns. So what these ontologies do is they make a load annotation model which try to grasp the meaning of the local tech set and then they link it to the earlier reference model. Oh which means that. If you see the hierarchy on the left top, there are total of 30.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Is 6 no currently? 32 annotation models which have been linked to this reference ontology. So you kind of can make the parcels interoperable. With as an intra, interoperable, and interoperable between languages and for the same language also. And I think this is a great resource for. Make make kind of like a conceptual interoperability, which means that what this annotated can be made interoperable.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So basically for the road map. We developed well. We developed an appeal change format. Actually, for practical reasons, between the allergy to within the energy to project with. Because we needed some way of using NLP for RDF. And so we fixed the version now to 1.0 and is published in the implementation of. The project has started. Um? The next step we are doing is benchmarking of the string. You are I'd properties, so if you have a change in documents with the your eyes be stable or not. This is one part. On the portal there are interactive tutorial challenges. So the community can kind of try. The first is formulated as a challenge or use case and then like community can try to. Tackle the challenge and then provide A blog post about it and this will be a common tutorial after that. So this is their idea to like foster adoption. And later there will be an NF 2.0 draft which will be refined based on the experience gained during the implementation of new floor Hall. So in this new 2.0 draft will be made available to the like to wider community or can be used to create a standard out of the format.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Actually.
