That under certain conditions can improve the utility of the data mining process. Then I will talk about the previous work and learning curves and progressive sampling. So the candidate fitting functions considered here include the logarithmic learning of the equation mentioned in your paper by Vicenta Jan, Power Law and Exponential equation. The slope and the intercept of the regression line OK, after I did. So that's how the total cost functions look like with each one of these learning curve equations, the difference is only in the differences, only in the last part where we calculate. The sampling increment was set to 1 percentage of the maximum training set size and the error rate was. These are the project projected and actual learning learning curves. OK, probably most of us realize that the data is not actually free. Here are a few examples of such applications getting patient records from a hospital running an engineering experiment at a factory collecting seasonal records from an agricultural database. And even when the data is free and is unlimited. These are these are the conclusions we can estimate the optimal training set size using the projective sampling strategy and the method was evaluated on 10 benchmark datasets of variable size using one specific algorithm, which is decision tree. We can try to further optimize the projective sampling schedules. And of course, this problem is closely related to active learning, active sampling, and probably we can try to model learning curves for some non random sampling strategies. And this is the usual situation when we acquire some training set. To induce a model in my talk, I will be focusing on induction of classification models. Where the examples will be classified will be labeled by the induced model. There is the cost of acquiring one example, the cost of committing one error, committing an error on one testing instance in this core set. And also there may be the cost of 1 unit of the CPU time. So what is this research about? We're trying to find the best training set size that should maximize their overall utility. The idea of projective sampling is very simple. So in this research I will be calculating the optimal training set size for several learning curve equations and I will show you that actually this approach can improve the utility of the data mining process of the classification process. That's how the learning curves look like for a decision tree algorithm implemented by rapid miner two. It's not just one time. What can be the best fit for a learning curve? There was one work done by friend Fisher back in 99. They experimented with several datasets. Yeah, I experimented with another decision tree algorithm, which is called information network and also found that actually the power law was the power law was the best feed. Probably one of the first by Foster promised in his quarters in 99 with progressive sampling strategy, you start with some initial amount of training data and then incrementally you increase your training set until the cost starts to increase. Progressive sampling has several limitations. Mainly it can overfit some local perturbations in the error rate and according to the result results in your paper. And finally, our expectation is that the projective sampling strategy should reduce the data mining cost, since it will find. So what is the projective sampling strategy? Each acquired sample is handled as one is treated as one data point. We acquire a new data point and then we compare persons correlation coefficient for each one of candidate fitting functions on the next slide I will show you the list of four. Of course, if we have not exceeded the maximum amount of available data.