The question the question the title of my paper is may new roads be less safe for awhile? Inovative, asphaltic surface layers, for instance the noise reducing type of layers they can have less get resistance. Or not only dry like John Bullis said, but also wet. That is, if nothing is being done about what could be done well, we could gritton chip spreading. Change the mix composition or quitting. Removing the bitumen has been tried and analysis. Heating and trying to push down or tear of the bituminous coating well didn't work well. And also these additives seem to have a negative effect on the durability of these test sections that were mentioned there. And to my opinion, that could be due to when you have a mastic which you want to have points sticking out. You're just crazy in the Netherlands, not gritting your pavements. These kind of pavements is kind of difficult. So you have to do it somewhere between either straight after you finish or on your first roller, or between the 1st and 2nd roller passes. And it's quite a. Ann makes temperature is very critical. If it's too hot, they may be pushing completely. And since these layers cool very fast, 10 to 15 minutes or 20 minutes for thirty 4050 degree temperature job is very hard to get the right time. So then you could really embed it into your mastic film. And all these things were not tried in the beginning because it was feared that would be detrimental effects on noise and drainage. We've done some rough risk calculations and we find that the risk of these new pavements having less get resistance for awhile is about 1/4 of the risk that we do accept in the end of the pavement surface live, so it's not negligible. It has been explained. They have a low microtexture and therefore they have a low wet friction and they are prone to melting like phenomena or shearing phenomena, which makes them have a lesser dry skin resistance. Chip spread is between the 1st and 2nd roller face. But you get to sort of hop in, hop out of kind of operation, which is logistically very challenging for the contractor. Best thing until now seems to be a chip spreader on your asphalt finisher, but even then you put on a ton of chippings you can go on for a couple of 100 meters, half an hour an hour, but then you have got to stop to reload your hopper and then you don't want to have your spreader stopping because you've got cooling all sorts of problem. To model what we've done and been doing, can we understand the solutions? We've been to that exposed bituminous surface is low microtexture. So many new roads be less safe for awhile, preferably not. I'll go into the historical development of the challenge now. Wet friction was not much of a problem. Wet friction that is, but then dry friction started to appear to be a problem. Drops remind texture optimized thin surface layers. Class higher friction, lower friction and a dimensionless risk ratio. Now we would want to have arnu pavements, something like the left friction. Service life of porous asphalt in motorways is about 12 to 14 years, which means that every year about 8% of the. Area gets resurfaced, so every year you've got about 8% of your network, which, when resurfaced, has a lower friction for about 6% of year. Say three weeks, maybe slightly more, maybe slightly less. Maybe this one does. It takes the typical agency about a year to notice that skin resistance is low and then do something about it on average. And it amounts to about 1 zero point, 1 zero point, 2% of all accidents. However, of course it is a more manageable problem because the end of pavement life loads get resistance.