EW shop stands for supporting event and water based data analytics and marketing along the shopper journey. We have like a business objective which is to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of companies that operate in several sectors like Commerce, retail and marketing industries, and in order to do that, what we want to do is build a platform that out to integrate the consumer and market data right so these data are produced across interactions through different channels and in different languages. So in particular by weather information and information about events, why cause events and weather have? To give you a very simple example, we want to help this company to build a services that help them advertise bicycle equipment order on Sunday afternoons during the Tour de France. And then of course, the last objective is to make up for the story is to make up for the lack of knowledge, technology and resources that these companies suffer from compared to big IT Giants like Amazon and so on and so forth. One if we want to take a look at the project that they approach at a glance, we can basically see that may end of this project is to produce value and the value is produced through marketable services in different business cases like the consumer journey, data integration, location, scouting, so location intelligence for physical stores, even based sales analysis and digital marketing campaigns based. On events and weather driven. Analysis These services have to be built starting from some data sources, which of course comprise consumer and market data that are provided by the companies in the consortium, but also include external data such as a weather data, media product, San category information an. Of course, the linked open data cloud. What we can offer a platform with several components. You will see these in the poster to tomorrow. But based on bilateral agreement 'cause many of the data that we manage, our proprietary of the companies. Potters, that's how to get in touch with us.