So the easiest way to describe collaborative filtering is as referenced by now famous Netflix problem. So we do this using singular value decomposition. And that is that it's solving a nonconvex problem. OK, so the consequences that for standard PCA it's rather well known that even a single outlier can arbitrarily skew the output, so I'm not interested in just one outlier. And I also am interested in the case for a constant points constant fraction of the points arbitrarily. Corrupted, so let's take these one at a time so corrupted data. OK, so first of all they have a large magnitude. They have a large magnitude even adjusting for skewness. And I'd like it to be robust to outliers in two different senses. So I want robustness in these two senses. Outliers, meaning you can still have alot any constant number, one outliers enough to completely full PCA. So here is one of the critical features of the high dimensional regime. That have no no, it did not identifiable skew, so the magnitude of the true samples might be much bigger than the outlier magnitude. If you're outliers were actually going to skew and also the direction of every sample will be approximately orthogonal to the direction of the signal. In high dimensions, that's not what we see. And every single point that you see is going to be. Up is going to be asymptotically, it will be exactly perpendicular to the signal space you want to you want to recover. If you try to get a robust estimate of the covariance well, you can get a robust. You could try to remove points that have large magnitude or look strange. So in high dimensions are devilish adversary. Some other algorithms that work in low dimensions that don't work because of algorithmic tract ability or algorithmic LL posdnous and one of them is this minimum volume ellipsoid. That are very successful and very robust to outliers. It's this robust variance estimator, So what is this for any? So the idea is that if the outliers are small, their impact is controlled on that they're not going to influence that a lot if the if the outliers are very big, their impact is controlled because they're not going to. So you perform PCA on the empirical covariance of the original of the points. This is my best guess then, regardless of what this step did I randomly remove a point in proportion to its variance along these directions. Here I've written repeat until all points are removed, but you don't actually have to do that. Many times there are several things that can go wrong. New idea and the new idea is that I don't actually care about the true L and the true. All I need is a low rank matrix that has the right column space. Collaborative filtering, except you have only partial observations, so these are your outliers. There's many applications, of course. Spend many different disciplines, so let me show you in pictures how this works.