[0.0s - 29.0s]
I'm for severe Duperre will speak about Galaxy Overdensity estimation. And how we can use some kind of learning process in order to reconstruct them? But we want so the trouble is the following. This is the victim's survey, so here you got all the Galaxy in butter inside too much. Survey plot along with guide what you can see is there. If it is possible, yes you can see our Galaxy there but. This is 1 trouble we over trouble yogurt. Lots of noise in fact in size and measure it just account Maps and what you want is something that is just over density at the end. So first if you are allies the different. Parazit emission in fact, what you remove from.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Your your survey something like that. So adventure work with this only this part of the Sky an in order to do some kind of science what you want in some kind of full map at the end. Another current techniques for dealing with missing data are unable to deal with this kind of mask. You can still do something with small holes, but not with this kind of big holes. V&V other problem is the distribution of the matter is not really well now. We can still say something about about it for large scale, medium scale. But for VR Overscale you cannot do lots of.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Things So what we propose is using some kind of two step. That documentation scheme where the first step is we try to complete the information using what we know about the noise. What we know about the matter. Distribution, so here for the beginning with you see along normal distribution that is true up to certain given scale an after is false, so we are unable to construct very small scale. And after completing the observation, you can try to estimate fear via overdensity. The idea is to repeat it another till you'll extract or the aforementioned unit of something that tells. Robust that with where you can still make some science. But will we don't really know lots of thing about the conventions and. Will still need to find a way to say well how techniques is something that is meaningful. We are not doing corrupt things. You're not inventing information and this is a little hard to do, so that's it.
