He's the head of the Polish booth at the European Parliament. Well, we had also a very nice experiment where we were translating a voting session, so we're voting session as a very. We would like to conduct what we call internally speech to text feasibility study. So when we were talking to interpreters, there told us that they would dream of having, like the transcript of of the speaker on this on screen in the booth. We work with really 24 languages on a daily basis, plus sometimes with more because we sometimes have non EU languages present as well which brings the number of possible language combinations up to 552, sometimes more. We work in different modes, basically in simultaneous, which has three varieties show Taj Valleys and the booth proper and in consecutive and our interpreters usually master on average about four or five languages from which they work into the mother tongue. Apart from having a specific language profile, we put a lot of stress on the perfect command of your mother tongue, because 90% of our work for some people 100% of their work is into the mother tongue. So as you can see, we work with more or less half of them on on a regular basis during our peak activity week, which is the Strasburg session Strasburg plenary session. There might maybe up to 1000 interpreters on site. And we work with small teams from two members up to 69. Now what do we do really on a daily basis, we communicate meaning and of course we do not translate words and hence the name interpreting which is which is used in some languages. This can be complemented by systematic thematic training, which are interpreter training unit offers and now we have a very big pilot project where we offer a systematic training in economics to a group of interpreters. How would you interpret or how would you translate that? What do you do with obvious mistakes? The Parliament is a highly complex and political environment, which means that we have to deal with complexity of legislative procedures, meaning that we do not only interpret content but we also have to know the procedure so so so as to get it right. Basically what I as I said they don't mean what they say and then they don't say what they mean. And the working environment of the interpreters is changing as well. So how can technology help us in our context where we have 552 language combinations and some of them quite? Exotic between the languages which are under resourced and technology simply not available or not available in the quality we would need in our highly sensitive political environment.