[0.0s - 29.0s]
So I will introduce on my colleague as well who will speak with with me, Martin Feder. He's the head of the Polish booth at the European Parliament. An interpreter and the we would like to start by thanking you for having us here. It's a great honor to be here. Thanks to Alex and to the organizers of of the conference we have now the impossible task to to keep your attention for another 10 minutes or so, just before the lunch break. But the good news is that our talk will not be very scientific, so it should be very easy to digest. Just before the lunch, and so without further ado, I ask Martin to to kick off. OK, thank you very much and I guess yes, we are the old ones out here because we will insist on talking about human interpretation.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the aim of our presentations, to describe briefly what it is like to be an interpreter, the European Parliament and to highlight some of the challenges that we face as human interpreters in our daily work. And then Hannah will continue talking about some technological solutions that can be used to to offer support to interpreters and they.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Work I would like to start by saying that the European Parliament is a truly multilingual environment. We work with really 24 languages on a daily basis, plus sometimes with more because we sometimes have non EU languages present as well which brings the number of possible language combinations up to 552, sometimes more. With all these additional language which is quite a big leap from the original 4 four languages and 12 combinations. We work in different modes, basically in simultaneous, which has three varieties show Taj Valleys and the booth proper and in consecutive and our interpreters usually master on average about four or five languages from which they work into the mother tongue. There are some people who bring this number up to 8 or 9. And we have up-to-date conference technology, namely 105 conference rooms with 908 booths in three different locations. Because we work in Brussels, Strasburg and Luxembourg as well.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Anne. What does it take to to be an interpreter? Well, the person has to have a University degree. Usually our colleagues graduate in linguistics and languages, but sometimes they have a different degree, which is a huge asset then because if you graduate in law or economics, this becomes really an asset, and it's been very handy in our daily work you should also have some training as a conference interrupted. This is usually usually not all, not all day all the time, but usually. A postgraduate course of one or two years. And then use it to test in order to become either a freelance or or a civil servant or a staff member. Apart from having a specific language profile, we put a lot of stress on the perfect command of your mother tongue, because 90% of our work for some people 100% of their work is into the mother tongue. Currently at the European Parliament we have 313 staff interpreters and we work with a pool of approximately 200 two 1800 accredited interpreters. So as you can see, we work with more or less half of them on on a regular basis during our peak activity week, which is the Strasburg session Strasburg plenary session. There might maybe up to 1000 interpreters on site. And we work with small teams from two members up to 69. Actually 92 members per team and in different types of meetings.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Here you will see an example of one of these big big teams is that this is the what we call a teamsheet for the plenary session where all the official languages are represent.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Now what do we do really on a daily basis, we communicate meaning and of course we do not translate words and hence the name interpreting which is which is used in some languages. Interpreting means we also interpret cultures, and in our particular case political realities, which is an additional difficulty. And as far as our workload, workflow workflow workflows are concerned, there are basically two that run in parallel. There is one that's meeting specific at Hawk and there is a general systematic workflow that runs in parallel in in the background. So meeting specific workflow starts with an assignment you get assigned to a meeting and this usually happens from anything from 2 weeks before 215 minutes before. And for each meeting there is some documentation hopefully provided. So you go through all these documents that are provided. You do some research, you do some brainstorming on the topic of the meeting. It's not that easy because usually these meetings are not focusing on just one topic. There is sometimes up to 20 issues raised in one single meeting. And ideally, which sometimes not very often. But it does happen. There is a thematic briefing offered just beforehand 2030 minutes before the meeting. This can be complemented by systematic thematic training, which are interpreter training unit offers and now we have a very big pilot project where we offer a systematic training in economics to a group of interpreters. The next step would be to expand your domain specific knowledge on an ad hoc basis. So let's say you assign to a meeting where shale gas will be discussed. So you read a scientific article on fracking to prepare for that meeting, and in parallel you can do that on a systematic basis as well. And. What is what stands out is general knowledge. This is. What we call a general knowledge or in German Lander schunder of your language of your languages and the cultures which are associated with these languages, but also during general knowledge of the House, which helps quite a bit in when you work in a meeting. So this general knowledge consists in say reading books, newspapers, watching films in your language is following other media. But also when I mean you never, we never we never sort of. Out of work, we never. We never rest, because even if you go on your private trip leisure travel to a country of the other language that you know, this is also an opportunity to practice your skills to improve your skills to maintain your skills. Now, moving onto specific terminology while you go through the meeting in through the meeting documents and you extract some specific terminology associated with that particular meeting and hear technological solutions can also be of help because up to up to now we do it sort of manually. Specific terminology is also the terminology that we harvest in the meeting, which is quite interesting because there are we are on the frontline. There are new terms that appear in the meeting that they are used for the first time by the speakers, by the by, the members, by the participants of the meeting. And then we can further process this terminology as well, and this is complemented with general systematic terminology. Work where we prepare system systematic glossary's on different subjects. Sometimes what we do, what I encourage my colleagues, particularly in my unit, we do some brainstorming on the spot so we come into the booth like 1015 minutes before the meeting starts and an we have a little discussion what people found and what terminology that they identified as potentially difficult or problematic. And you know, we ask these questions. How would you interpret or how would you translate that? That kind of brainstorming on the spot and then in the general systematic workflow you have to remember about language maintenance. The thing that I mentioned already so you have to follow the developments in all the languages that you have. If you have 8, that's a lot of work. Imagine Reading 8 newspapers a day, eight magazines a week, watching 8 films. I don't know a day, it's not possible, there's not. There's not enough time. Top of that, because people have started with two or three languages, they are encouraged to add new languages. So we have language learning as well.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Now. The main difficulties speed is one of them, and this is one of the factors that is mentioned by colleagues very often there are people who prepare those features in advance and read them out. This is a major source of difficulty for us, but there's another phenomenon as well. There are some people who do not show up for meetings and they give their speech to a colleague and then this person says, Oh my colleague has given me, could make it today and has given me her speech. It is in French, which I don't know really well, but I will read it to you anyway and this is what happens, Ann. This is even more difficult for us. Another another thing this I don't think comes as a surprise is speakers and their accents, and this is particularly with regard to non native accents and especially English. Then but sometimes there's a lot of confusion and hear the knowledge of the house, the systematic knowledge of the house come in handy because, for example, when you have names, remember sometime ago we had three Members in the Parliament who were called Busk, Buzek and Bouska. And if someone mispronounced these names, you didn't know what person which person that speaker meant. But if you were in the Agriculture Committee, you knew that it was busk. If you were in the Budgetary Control Committee, you know it was this, can you? If you were in the industry committee you knew it was Bozak. So that's how we go about solving these problems. Another problem is and it's a bit perverse, is information overload because we still few years back we still complained that there were not enough documents provided for the meetings. Now quite a few documents are provided for our meetings, but sometimes there are so many of them. Plus there are often last minute changes in assignments that sometimes there's no time to read them properly. And again, here technologies would come come in handy. I'm talking I'm thinking about summer summarizing automatic summarization about terminology extraction about named entity extraction, stuff like that. Technical meetings, yeah we do. With highly technical meetings, we have public hearings at a very scientific University level that's really, really difficult. Another problem sometimes, because in these big meeting rooms the booths are located on 2 levels and the ones on the upper level have limited visibility. We have screens in the boots, but that's not really the real thing so access to non verbal information is very important for interpreters because you know by by the place where a person is sitting sitting, you know. That they are left wing or right wing and you know you know that that you are hearing right? What they're saying? This kind of. Stuff. Now, obvious mistakes. This is a very this is a question that we get very very often. What do you do with obvious mistakes? Well, we try not to correct them. We tend to say something so says the speaker and then we will get the blame anyway because that's the easiest way to do. The Parliament is a highly complex and political environment, which means that we have to deal with complexity of legislative procedures, meaning that we do not only interpret content but we also have to know the procedure so so so as to get it right. Polititians uses very specific type of discus. Basically what I as I said they don't mean what they say and then they don't say what they mean. And then again when there's a problem someone will say Oh no, I didn't mean that. And then they will blame it on the interpreter again. Another thing that's very particular to the European Parliament is lack of stable and predictable coalitions, because if you have your national parliaments and there is a coalition, it is stable for a period of time in Parliament in the European Parliament. The Coalition, the Coalition's, are built around an issue, so sometimes the green ones will side with Christian Democrats. You don't know, so it's not predictable in that sense. And to more fatigue both in meeting because as I said, these meetings are highly technical. Very intense, very very fast paced. So far. Fatigue in meetings and long term fatigue when you have when you do 4 sessions, 8 sessions of 3 1/2 hour meetings week, this is quite a lot with this degree of density and complexity. And finally. Being an interpreter is a never ending learning and personal and professional development story. If if you if you stop you are doomed. A hand over.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Tana, yeah. So it's very interesting what Martin said, and if we can compare this to to the slide we saw earlier today with the challenges, the. ASR technology is facing. I think there is a certain overlap there so it's very interesting to observe and somebody said earlier today as well that technology has become a part of the translator. So workplace an it's it has become actually mainstream. And yes, it's true. Even the European institutions are having now their own machine translation systems, but it's not yet the case for for the interpreters. And the working environment of the interpreters is changing as well. So in the European Parliament we have now the paperless strategy. It may sound the very trivial, but it has massive influence on on interpreters work. Because imagine now gradually paper documents will be phased out. Printers will be removed, so how do our interpreters prepare for their assignments if they no longer have have the documents where where they can harvest their dirty terminology from the workplace is very dynamic. You can get assigned to 2:00 AM in meeting in 10 minutes time. How do you prepare in 10 minutes for for a meeting we have? As it was mentioned already here before now. Mobile device is changing, changing our world and some years ago you could probably see interpreters coming with. Big dictionaries to the booth and nowadays there all come with a with an iPad. I'm told they prefer to use mobile devices to laptops because mobile devices are silent and if somebody is sitting next to you in the booth and it's typing on a laptop, this disturbs the colleagues and so yes, even in the public sector there is more and more pressure on delivering services faster and cheaper of course so.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So how can technology help us in our context where we have 552 language combinations and some of them quite? Exotic between the languages which are under resourced and technology simply not available or not available in the quality we would need in our highly sensitive political environment. So where we try to apply technologies interpreter training interpreter testing because we test interpreters before they can work for us and then actual support to interpret this and. I will say just a couple of words about the Third Point.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Um, information overload was the one of the challenges Martin mentioned, and it's a challenge not only for interpreters, but for everybody working in the Parliament. The Parliament is producing masses of documents and we are coping with masses of information. So how? How do we even find the information we need fast? And how do we make sense out of it? We have a project known called Knowledge Management Portal. It's an ipy project and it's kind of single access point to all the information one may need. In our daily lives an it's it works on all platforms. It's a web based tool an it's highly customizable so everybody can can tweak it to his or her own needs. And it has also integrated a very powerful search tool which allows us to retrieve the version of the document we are currently looking for.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Now I have to mention our wonderful cooperation with the EU bridge project and I apologize. We don't have a picture of Alex there. We could have faced with the picture of Alex giving a talk in the European Parliament. We will do better next time for the interact 50th anniversary. And from this project. There are that we started with a brainstorming we had together with with interpreters and Alex and his team and we thought OK, if we cannot solve all our problems, what are the problems we we could solve with with the technology which is available already?

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So there is 1 product which is kind of a baby of of this project. It's the interpreter support tool. It's an application which allows to retrieve. Automatically extract technology from terminology from documents and what is also very nice. The interpreters are getting also suggestions for translations of the terms which are harvested from from various sources and terminological databases.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Uh, not.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Sir, think which the tool does is named entity detection. So for example, if an interpreter would like to find quickly all the numbers which appear in a document or or a specific name, he can do this in in a fraction of a second and this all. Cantu, you seem like you know, very easy and it's not rocket science. But I think the particular challenge here is how to package and deliver all this technology to the user so that he can. He can really make use out of it and there are many solutions already on the market targeted on translators, but. There is very few which is done for interpreters and their needs are quite specific and the speed is one of the crucial factors, because if you are in the booth and you need very quickly specific terminology, you cannot just sit and watch the the wheel turning for two minutes. So.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Well, we had also a very nice experiment where we were translating a voting session, so we're voting session as a very. Specific part, it's quite limited in vocabulary, but it's very tiring and it can go for a very long time and our interpreters are telling us that they just hate it so well. The idea was here. So why now? Don't we let the machines do the out parts of the job? For the moment this was only one of experiment, but. Who knows in the future?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So what's next? What? What are our plans? We would like to conduct what we call internally speech to text feasibility study. So when we were talking to interpreters, there told us that they would dream of having, like the transcript of of the speaker on this on screen in the booth. So we plan to organize some some workshops, Ann. In order to test the ASR technology that is available currently in real life setting in the Parliament. And actually, to see if it's really fit for the purpose and we would like to also to validate this assumption that this additional text input would help interpreters rather than disturbing them, because it's an assumption, but we don't know this and the very last word if if there is anybody who would like to work with us on on this then. We are here, so I used the opportunity to. The Special Award of Invitation to all this academic or commercial solution providers in the room. If this sounds interesting to you and you would like to maybe evaluate your system in a real life parliamentary challenging setting, than yeah, you're more than welcome and.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
I think this is the last slide you will find. Our email address is here, so thank you very much.
