I mean, this restriction of lengths for tweets, but on the other hand we also know from communication research that authors or speakers tend to make their messages as informative as required, but do not provide more information than necessary. And whenever I talk about representing the background knowledge, I talk about this statistically representation of the background knowledge. So to answer the first research question, which was, to what extent does the background knowledge of the audience support the semantic annotations of individual messages? I'm significantly outperformed the baseline and that just using the most recent messages of the audience leads to the best model and we kind of conclude from that that hashtag streams that the audience of a hashtag stream contains knowledge which can be useful for predicting the hashtags of future messages. Authors, followers, followers and friends and the overlap measures characterized the overlap between the authors and followers. So first we want to figure out to what extent does the background knowledge of the audience. Help to create semantic annotation of social media messages and 2nd we want to know what are the characteristics of an audience which possesses useful background knowledge and which types of social streams actually tend to have useful audiences. So in summary, our work provides some initial empirical evidence for the fact that the audience of a social stream possesses some knowledge, which may indeed help to interpret the meaning of streams messages. But we also showed that not all streams have similar useful audiences, so the correlation analysis suggests that audiences of a stream seems to be most useful if the stream is created and consumed by a stable, focused, uncommunicative community that means a group of users who are interconnected and a few core users to whom almost everyone else is connected. So currently and in the near future, and we're working on comparing the utility of ontologically background knowledge with this statistical audience. Background knowledge for the hashtag prediction task, and we're also working on the algorithmic exploitation of our results. We want to use the structural stream measures for which we found high correlation to inform a waiting parameter which tells us how much we can count on the audience. So what we want to do in this message classification task is to compare the performance of the real audience with random audiences, and we want to figure out how well they can predict the hashtags of future tweets. Our assumption is that an audience which is better in guessing the hashtag of tweets is better and interpreting the meaning of the messages. That's why we stick with them and we compare different approaches for estimating the background knowledge of the audience, different methods for selecting the audience, different methods for selecting the content, and different methods for representing the background knowledge. As a data set, we used very nice diverse sample of hashtags. They identified 8 main categories of hashtags on a very large data set from Twitter, so those categories include things like celebrities, games, idioms, movies, music, political sports and technology, and for each of those categories we randomly sampled. We just use the most recent messages authored by those top users. Messages authored by the audience and only included those who contain with one of the top hashtags of the audience.