[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so I'm a very warm welcome from my side, so the work I'm presenting is joint work with Philip Singer Lisa Bosh and Macrostomia from Gratz University of Technology. So let's start by exploring the.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Problem which we tried to address in this work. So take a minute and read those two tweets and think about how you would take them. So what's the topic of those two tweets? So when you do that, you will notice that it's often not that straightforward to semantically annotate them, because there is a lack of contextual information. So the solution in this example is for the first tweet. It would be about music, about the concert and for the second one it would be about fashion. So the question is, why do authors not provide more contextual information in order to make it easier to infer the topics of tweets? And the reason is, of course that there is. I mean, this restriction of lengths for tweets, but on the other hand we also know from communication research that authors or speakers tend to make their messages as informative as required, but do not provide more information than necessary. And this is interesting since it suggests that authors actually make assumptions about how much their audience knows already and based on assumptions they decide how much information they need to provide. So how much information is necessary so that their audience or there? Imagined audience can understand the message. So in this example, the first author for example might assume that his audience knows that she's a singer, and therefore for them it's obvious that it's about music and in the second example there also might assume that his audience is familiar with the work of Raphael Geonoma, who is a designer. And then again, it's very obvious that it's about fashion, so this example nicely shows that although it might not be obvious for everyone to infer what's the topic of a tweet, there is a certain group of users which we call the audience, or the inferred or imagined audience. Of some people for whom it is very easy to semantically annotate tweets and to know what's the topic of the tweet and to understand it. So.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
This work actually builds on this intuition that if one would have access to the background knowledge of the audience, this would help to interpret the meaning of tweets and to annotate them with semantics, and therefore we hypothesize that semantic technologies which aimed to semantically annotate tweets could benefit from incorporating the background knowledge of the audience. So concretely, we exploring the following two research questions in this work. So first we want to figure out to what extent does the background knowledge of the audience. Help to create semantic annotation of social media messages and 2nd we want to know what are the characteristics of an audience which possesses useful background knowledge and which types of social streams actually tend to have useful audiences.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So to address this research question, we conducted the message classification task and we use hashtags as a ground truth for semantic labels, and after having here to keynote yesterday from Enrico, I'm sure that a large proportion of the audience will highly disagree with me. When I say well hashtags, I ground truth for semantic labels, but let me give some justification why we decided to use that as a ground truth. So first there was a paper in 2007 at the International Semantic Web Conference by David Land Yahoo and Peter Mika. Who were exploring to what extent hashtags have properties which are similar to the properties of your eyes, which are currently used as identifiers in the semantic web, and they found that around half of other hashtags could be aligned with freebase concepts and therefore actually identify semantic concepts. Of course only half of them, but still. I mean this is the beginning, so the second justification is what would be the alternative. Well, the alternative would be to ask some users to semantically annotate tweets. But as I showed you at the beginning, it's not always that obvious for external raters to decide what's the topic of the tweet. So we think that the authors are the people who know what they're treatise about. And if you ask some external people, then you might end up excluding all the interesting examples, because you will have a very low interrater agreement for the tweets where you can't find certain keywords in and you will have a high interrater agreement. If the topic of the Treaty is very obvious, and what people then usually do is excluding those for which they cannot find an agreement. And then, as I said, you end up having a biased and boring data set, so we wanted to avoid that and therefore we decided to stick with the noisy ground truth, which is in our case hashtags. So what we want to do in this message classification task is to compare the performance of the real audience with random audiences, and we want to figure out how well they can predict the hashtags of future tweets. Our assumption is that an audience which is better in guessing the hashtag of tweets is better and interpreting the meaning of the messages. So that's the general assumption of our evaluation and our null hypothesis is that if an audience does not possess significantly more knowledge than a random group of users. Then the classification model trained on the background knowledge of the audience compared to a classification model trained on the background knowledge of a random set of users should not differ significantly.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So what we did is we train several multiclass classification models. Some use different classifiers which are frequently used for doing text classification, and in our case we found that linear support vector machines work best. That's why we stick with them and we compare different approaches for estimating the background knowledge of the audience, different methods for selecting the audience, different methods for selecting the content, and different methods for representing the background knowledge. And we tested then how well each model can predict the hashtags of future messages and used the weighted macro F1 score as an evaluation measure.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
As a data set, we used very nice diverse sample of hashtags. So for creating this data set we built on previous work which was published in 2011 by Romero, Kleinberg and others. They identified 8 main categories of hashtags on a very large data set from Twitter, so those categories include things like celebrities, games, idioms, movies, music, political sports and technology, and for each of those categories we randomly sampled. 10 hashtags and we biased our sample towards active hashtags. Since we crawled in 2012 and they identified these categories in those hashtags in 2011.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So here you can see 3 sample hashtags which are included in our data set. For each of those categories. So for example in the category technology we have hashtags like BlackBerry, iPhone, Google while in the category games we have hashtags like gaming Mafia Wars or World of Warcraft. So you can see we have a fairly diverse random sample of hashtags. In total we have 78 hashtags.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So after having selected Disturbers sample of hashtags, we started crawling process. So we crawled the data at three different time points. So at the beginning of each time point we first crawled old tweets which contain one of the 78 hashtags within the last week and then we extracted the authors of those tweets and their social network and also crawled on the most recent messages of the authors and the social network and we repeated that three times.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So in order to estimate the audience of a hashtag stream, we ranked the friends of the Streams authors. But a number of authors they're friends with. So in this example you see these artificial hashtags dream about football and we have 5 tweets. We have four authors and we have three audience users and the audience user B would be the one with the highest rank because he's the friend his friend of all four authors, while they also see would get the second highest rank since his friend of two authors and so on. And the idea here is that audience user B is the one who is most likely to be part of the imagined audience of the authors. So he's one of the users who is very likely to be exposed to messages containing the football hashtag stream, and therefore we assume that this user is very likely to have the right background knowledge about football in order to infer meaning of tweets and interpret. I mean, it's likely that he has knowledge about football.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So after having selected the top audience user, perhaps extreme, we also needed a way to select the content which we use later for estimating the background knowledge of those users. So we tested here 4 different approaches, so the first one is very straightforward. We just use the most recent messages authored by those top users. The intuition behind the 2nd and the third one is that messages which contains links might be more informative and therefore we decided to filter messages which contain one of the top links. After audience we tested two different approaches here, because if you imagine a tweet which contains a link is obviously. I mean there is less space for textual information and since we use statistical methods we need. I mean we need textual information. That's why we tested and enriched version as well, where we included the information from the HTTP meter text, the keyboards information and the title information from the sides to which the links are pointing. And finally we used the top text method where we filter. Messages authored by the audience and only included those who contain with one of the top hashtags of the audience.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So after having selected the top audience users and also the content which we want to use, we needed a way to abstract the content and represent the background knowledge somehow. And whenever I talk about representing the background knowledge, I talk about this statistically representation of the background knowledge. So what we did here is we abstracted the messages and represented them either as vectors of terms where we waited them by using TF and TF IDF, or we represented then as a probability distribution over topics.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So to answer the first research question, which was, to what extent does the background knowledge of the audience support the semantic annotations of individual messages? We combined the audience selection, content selection and background estimation approaches, created semantic features for the messages of the audience, and trained a classification model on the messages authored by the audience and used the hashtag stream labels as as class labels. And we tested. So we trained the model on data which was crawled at T0 and tested the data crawled. At and crawled on data which were called a T1, which is kind of important, because the way we constructed the data set as we constructed this was that we wanted to make sure that the data we used during training the content data as well as the social network data is completely independent from the data which we use during testing.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So let's look at the results. One needs to know that we have a multi class classification problem. We have 78 classes, so if we would uniformly pick at random, we would have a very low performance. That's not what we use is baseline, so as baseline, we use a random audience. So we basically swap audiences and class labels randomly and trained the class classifier on this random audience. And still I mean a classifier can learn some patterns and therefore the baseline of a random audience would be zero point. 01 for TF, IDF, and the same for LDA. If we train the classification model on the most recent messages authored by their audience, we get a significantly higher performance. So for TF IDF, that would be 0.25, and for LDA it would be 0.23. So when we use this top links approach, the performance is only half as good, which is not surprising for the plane case, but which kind of surprised us for the enriched case. That's why we investigated. What are the top links of each hashtag stream and we found that often. In the top links, the top links point to multimedia sharing sites like for example YouTube and the problem here is that the approach which we used for enrichment actually does not work in this case because the keyboards and the title information which you get from those sites does not tell you anything about the content which is shared, but just tells you something about the service. So that's why this didn't work well. And finally the top tax approaches again performs better than the top links and similar to. Just using the most recent messages and from all that we can basically see that all audience informed classification models. I'm significantly outperformed the baseline and that just using the most recent messages of the audience leads to the best model and we kind of conclude from that that hashtag streams that the audience of a hashtag stream contains knowledge which can be useful for predicting the hashtags of future messages. So what we did in.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Addition to that is I showed you now the overall performance, but we were also looking into the performance of individual categories and what one can see here is that, for example, for the category idioms. So for the hashtags which are in this category, the audience was completely useless, so this is not surprising and we were not much worried about that because hashtags which are included in this category idioms are things like Oh my God facts or I wish. And those hashtags are perfect examples for non topical hashtags. There was a paper published at www.lastyear which is called the dual role of hashtags and they actually showed that there are hashtags which have a topically function syntax checks which have a social functions and the category idioms is a perfect example of hashtags which have a social function and therefore all content based or semantic approach will not perform very well. On the other hand we see that for other categories like sports or political, an audience informed classification model performs very. Fairly well, and those are actually the hashtags we are interested in in this work.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So since we have seen that the audience of certain hashtag streams is more useful than for other streams, we also wanted to know what types of streams tend to have useful audiences and therefore we perform the correlation analysis between the ability of the audience of a stream to interpret the meaning of the messages and the structural properties of the stream so.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
We used your couple of structural stream properties, static properties and dynamic ones. So for example the static properties we were looking at where simple coverage properties where we say for example, the informational coverage is simply defined as the ratio between messages containing links and the total number of messages, or the conversational coverage would be defined as the number of messages containing at replies divided by the total number of messages, and so on. The entropy based measures. Measure the randomness of streams. Authors, followers, followers and friends and the overlap measures characterized the overlap between the authors and followers. Authors and followings and also sent friends of a stream for the dynamic measures we were interested in. How much the author, follower, and friend distributions changed overtime so we are using here. The Kullback Leibler divergent to quantify the differences of distributions overtime. And.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
The correlations which turned out to be significant where the overlap measures, so all overlap measures were significantly positively correlated with the F1 scores. So this suggests that streams which are produced and consumed by consumed by a community of users who are tightly interconnected tend to have useful audiences, and the useful audience is, as I said before, audience which possesses background knowledge which helps interpreting the meaning of messages.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
For the coverage measures, we found that only the conversational coverage was significantly positively correlated, and this indicates that it's not only important that there is a community around the stream, but also that the community is communicate if.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
For the entropy measures, we found a significant negative correlation with once course, which is also intuitive since it suggests that the less random the authors, friends and followers of a stream the hired F1 scores, that means the better the audience. So streams which are produced and consumed by a focused set of authors, followers, and followees and friends tend to have useful audiences.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And finally, looking at the divergent measures shows that again there is a significant negative correlation, which indicates the less the follower following an author distribution change overtime, the better the audience. So social stable streams tend to have better audiences.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So in summary, our work provides some initial empirical evidence for the fact that the audience of a social stream possesses some knowledge, which may indeed help to interpret the meaning of streams messages. But we also showed that not all streams have similar useful audiences, so the correlation analysis suggests that audiences of a stream seems to be most useful if the stream is created and consumed by a stable, focused, uncommunicative community that means a group of users who are interconnected and a few core users to whom almost everyone else is connected. But of course we know. I mean, we did a correlation analysis, so we're not claiming that we found on causal relations here, but what we did is we repeated our experiments on T1 and T2, and we found as we got the same results and we found the same correlation. So at least we can say, well, this correlation. This relational patterns which we found are reproducible, though we don't know whether they are costly.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So currently and in the near future, and we're working on comparing the utility of ontologically background knowledge with this statistical audience. Background knowledge for the hashtag prediction task, and we're also working on the algorithmic exploitation of our results. So concretely, we're working on hybrid hashtag recommendation algorithm. We want to use the structural stream measures for which we found high correlation to inform a waiting parameter which tells us how much we can count on the audience. And we also want to differentiate between social and topical hashtags, because as I said. For social hashtags, different recommendations strategies, non content based recommendation strategies are needed and from previous work on tech recommendations we know that user centric centric algorithms tend to work best and this has the limitation that uses need to be active and this doesn't work for inactive users and we think that this might be a way to. I mean this might be for audience integrated approach. This is not a problem since they only require an active audience and there might be space. For improvement by using an audience integrated approaches.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Um? If you allow me to give you one, take home message from this talk, then that would be that semantic technologies which are applied in a social environment. I mean, no matter if we talk about statistical methods or we talk about deep language parsing, rather semantic technologies, as soon as they are applied in a social environment, they should take into account the dynamics of the social environment since information is created by humans for humans and therefore technologies can potentially benefit from not only taking their producer site into account, but also the consumer side. Thank you. Hi, first of all, congratulations for the talk. I just have a couple of questions. The first one is when you choose your audience you get the authors of the hashtag and then you get the friends of those authors right. And I was wondering whether not getting the authors of the hashtags of a community right? Because for example if somebody talk about E SWC I might not be linked to that person but because I also talk about. Is that what you see? I'm following that tag, therefore I'm an audience of that tag as well, right? I don't know if if if that's the point. If if you follow that point, the second question is about the the performance results that you are getting. I'm not very familiar with multi classification and I am conscious that you have 74 tags or something like that, but the precision seems normally very low like below 0.5, so any comments about that as well? Yeah, I mean for the first question that was about you would follow a #without. Following the authors who are hash tagging about that right? Yeah, yeah yeah. I mean in that case, of course, it's kind of difficult to estimate the audience since we don't have lock data, right? So I mean, if you would have locked data, if you would know what people are searching for, things like that, you could use the same approach, right? But it's just I mean from what we get from the API, we probably couldn't go there. Yeah, I agree. I mean, there is. My point was just like because you have the list of authors, yeah, and you have the list of friends. Right, my point was like OK, maybe you can include the authors as part of the audience as well. OK, yeah, now I get you. Yeah, I mean we're doing that as well. So we have a second paper where we try to incorporate the audience background knowledge. So this was just I mean this empirical study because we wanted to know first whether it makes sense at all, right? And what we're doing now is incorporating this knowledge and include the authors as well. So we have the core set, which are the authors and people who are using the hashtag. And then we use the audience and try to incorporate this knowledge in a smart way. Yeah, so, and for the second question, yes, I mean the performance is pretty low. That's true. You need to take into account that you have lots of classes, and I mean for hashtag prediction. I mean for tech prediction, there is often a low performance and it really depends on. I mean I'm, I don't want to compare with other works because it really depends on what kind of samples you are using right? If you use everything as we did is pretty difficult to make predictions. If you would kind of. Cut down your data set to some obvious examples. You can get a lot better performance. Yeah, or if you just use other measures. I mean, you know we could also use some whatever mean reciprocal rank which is often used for text suggestions or stuff like that. And then you get a higher number. So it's a question of what mission are you? Course I was right now, so you have 74 tags so they classification problem gets more more problematic, right? OK thanks, thanks a lot. I just have one few remarks when you said that you were using the URL and then you get the meta information about that URL and for services like YouTube is not working because it's information about the service itself. So why didn't you using the URL, extract texture information and do tagging and constant entity extraction in the whole text instead of just meta tags? And why didn't you use like service like Embedly for example when they support tons of services you can give URL like if you do for you to help you get back title description. And information that you can use for enrich the tweet. Just very marks. It's a good point. You know we didn't do that, but I mean that should definitely be included in future work. That yeah, using more information from the links, yes, I said. I mean, we just, you know, run this experiment and we were surprised that it's not working. So we just looked why it's not working. And I mean, you're completely right, there would be ways to include the complete textual information. I mean, I'm not familiar with what did you say embedded embedly? Embed Lee? OK, I don't know that. So they supporters of services that you like you too and this works for You Tube. OK, no, I didn't know that. Yes, thank you. No. One last question. If not, let's thanks all these speak again.
