The main motivation is that given Dextrose state of the semantic Web only relying on purely deductive inference may be limiting. We encode the similarities in two and a symmetric adjacency matrix W net one and relax labels, binary labels representing membership to the concept of membership to the complement of the concept we represented, relax those labels into real numbers and we get real numbers from ranging from minus one to one. And so we need that cost function that bot that penalizes divergents from the training labels. Sorry this component that enforces consistency with training examples. OK, basically I think I will skip may detail say here basically finding global global minimum for this cost function boils down to solving a large sparse linear system. There is a problem that as our nearly linear complexity with respect to the number of nonzero entries in the coefficient matrix, so also there are MapReduce based implementations for this, so this can be implemented efficiently, it can. Each simulated graph is associated to a weight and weights are learned with optimization methods and. Essential group affiliations in the IFB affiliations ontology and we tried. But yeah, it really did not to be always the case. You also get hints about how well is a kernel for sustain prediction task and. About learning. Efficiently learning combination of kernels, learning the best combination of kernels with respect to domain with respect to ascertain couple of domain and prediction tasks by taking account but. I personally believe that minimizing some kind of. You find many applications of machine learning techniques in the context of semantic web concept learning. You have schema induction and assertion prediction. Say for example, the concept membership relation of an individual to given concept and this problem is often tackled with the statistical models in semantic web, relatedly, charger. In genetic models you have fully fledged probability distribution modeling all the variables involved in the prediction task and then the genetic prediction model basically calculates the posterior distribution of the target variable and use that distribution to perform predictions and discriminative models are in some sense simpler. The distribution of the instances there are not only formally distributed in this instance space and on the right you have the actual labels that you may reconstruct by making use of the semi supervised smoothness assumption. So the aim will be to find, given a set of labeled, unlabeled instances, that is, individuals either member of the concept member of the negation of that concept and with an unknown concept membership relation. To find according to the assumption I said before labeling, that is a set of concept concept memberships that various smoothly between similar individuals. And and also is consistent with the few training examples we were given. Concept membership also allows to have a confidence value, some kind of confidence value associated to the infrared concept memberships, and this is the algorithm in short, basically. As in the previous presentation, we create a similarity graph between the individuals in the training set, both labeled and unlabeled, and then we propagate information in this similarity graph by minimizing a cost function which can be minimized in this case.