I'm your cousin and researcher from the Tambre University of Technology from the Department of Hypermedia. I'm part of this smart simulators research group. So what I'm presenting here is also the work of many of my colleagues from which I have been collaborated on this topic. Virtual Machine laboratory prototyping environment won't be. We quite didn't manage to build it automatically, but most of the integration was was done with our automatic tools, so I said the process and environment was largely implemented by using Eclipse platform along with some plugins and for the workflow we fall back to a very rudimentary Apache and tool. And dimension that we we kind of tried to use as low level tools as possible. In terms of the model and the ontology we started with, I'm saying only RDF because we we didn't want to. Modeling was must use RDF schema along with some all features. Domains, domains in question, as well as some top level models that aim to create these domains together into a consistent ontology and as a result we got around 52 classes and 58 objects or worth of data. First, I would like to mention that we didn't start by designing the data model first, but we started by creating the environment on the basis of our needs and and evolving the data model from the features arising from the actual design documents and processes. So we tried to keep the overhead minimal in this these terms. In terms of female features, our environment is already able to provide the kind of aspects we really require, notably it deep support for us rapid prototyping with with the evolving data and semantic search and and simulation support. Can't be more automatically done. What this interesting that in terms of technical problems, the semantic web technologies weren't bottleneck. But in terms of the application domains and multiple problems arouse. First of all, the data is encoded in in very heterogeneous set of documents and it's it's encoded in documents and if we talk about linked data then I would say we have like 100% of level 0 linked data. And I said we didn't find any existing good ontologies we could apply here in our case. OK, so to conclude, we I think we successfully applied semantic web technologies to modeling data required for a virtual machine laboratory Canary generation. It enabled us to create the global comprehensive representation of the design data. We need to develop this kind of more standard domain domain vocabularies and ontologies as well as entity data and licensing models so more urban collaborative working on these fields would be from my point of view, beneficial. Of course, as I said for educational use, but why not? For kind of user guides for interactive maintenance and spare parts guides so there are a lot of potential benefits for using and building these kind of environments, and if we speculate an ideal case of this kind of environment, it could be a complete virtual prototype of a working machine, which means that in effect we would be able to iterate with the machine design without physically building this kind of expensive prototype machines. I'm talking about will be released under an open source license, so it will be available for you for further dissemination and and exploration. They need to understand and kind of encoding, codified the structure and function of these machines in some ways. So so in a way this this much of these designs are document based, they are often are too informal. This design information. That yeah, of course you can leave stuff. Just us an example of how the designs are usually made for visual interpretation. It's it's part of the functionality that implements specific boom lift action within the system, so this kind of implicit assumptions are quite common. We tried not to touch too much the way the current machine designers work, so we as a research group, we attempted to simulate the collaboration of engineers in working in a machine design and working in iterations to finalize made up design. And in the parallel of this process, we designed our processing environment so we had to do both the design of the environment and design of the machine system together. And what we found out, of course, because we are now moved to working with structured documents and semantic models. Mostly to create XML SVG and already have representations of the original designs. And so we the environment consisted of a toolchain that automatically converts this original designs into an intercreditor semantic model and we had build rebuild automatics, work workflows and the kind of data aggregation tools in order to achieve this and for the help to help the designers to made up if their data is.