[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, hello, let's get started. I'm your cousin and researcher from the Tambre University of Technology from the Department of Hypermedia. I'm part of this smart simulators research group. So what I'm presenting here is also the work of many of my colleagues from which I have been collaborated on this topic. So the topic and implementation of a semantic web page. Virtual Machine laboratory prototyping environment won't be. I'm guessing it's it won't open to you so quickly, so let me give you some brief background on what we are doing here so so. The background for our research comes from the working machines industry. I mean we are we are working with a cluster of. Companies that are involved in designing, manufacturing and supporting the use of kind of real big working machines. An example why this is a difficult field is that the. Numbers of. Manufactured machines are not so high, so they are not kind of like mass produced and there are a lot of variations in different designs, so there may be like 10s of different variations for the same base of a machine. So so we have low numbers of production numbers and a lot of variation with gives us a lot of complexity into design data.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
One of the ways we have been collaborating with the industry is building this kind of learning environments for the machines, and from this stems the idea that what if we build these kind of virtual machine laboratories? Kind of virtual representations of these machines in other use cases for the industry as well?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
For instance, we could use this kind of integrated environment in general for support of the design for data integration and kind of simulation environments. Of course, as I said for educational use, but why not? We could induce this for? For kind of user guides for interactive maintenance and spare parts guides so there are a lot of potential benefits for using and building these kind of environments, and if we speculate an ideal case of this kind of environment, it could be a complete virtual prototype of a working machine, which means that in effect we would be able to iterate with the machine design without physically building this kind of expensive prototype machines. So it it would be cost more, much more cost effective and and potentially allow the faster evolve. The design of these machines which which obviously is an issue at the moment.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So the the challenges we face here is that developing this kind of environment has not been so trivial. First we have had several developers software developers working on these kind of tools. They need to understand and kind of encoding, codified the structure and function of these machines in some ways. And what we have came across is that usually this kind of information we need is scattered across this kind of. Various design documents that are in many ways heterogeneous. There are several cat drawings, 3D models, a lot of documents and spreadsheets that are used to encode this design in formation. So so in a way this this much of these designs are document based, they are often are too informal. Their silos of information as we understand they are not interconnected. So I kind of know how cat drawing formally. Is connected to a 3D model, and so on, and one of the things that has we have stumbled across many times is that there are a lot of little details that are have been left undocumented and and kind of like implicit design. This design information. These are like these sentences are made up, but the fact stays the same. That yeah, of course you can leave stuff. We have designed it for lifting, but that kind of stuff has never been documented anywhere so. All of the engineers understand functionality's of a machine, and so on, and also kind of like they think what they think. Yes, it is a trivial thing like default values and parameters and all kinds of this, like stuff that is highly required for simulation models and so.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So. Just us an example of how the designs are usually made for visual interpretation. Here is one of the CAD drawings into middle section. You can see that the green green one and I have a like used my mouse and move this section like within the Cat tool and it isn't supposed to move like that. It's what we see here is that it is only made visually connected to the other blocks left and right so it it should be connected semantically as well, but in this case it wasn't like that. So this is. Very.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
A common problem also, this kind of implicit assumptions. They are everywhere. For instance, the left side block of this design. It's it's part of the functionality that implements specific boom lift action within the system, so this kind of implicit assumptions are quite common.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, So what we tried, how we've tried to approach this problem is that we we looked into the real design data and and thought that hey maybe we can try to enrich and fix this in the 1st place so we wouldn't have to like reproduce the same desires the designers have already been meeting so we tried to make them structured machine readable, connected them with some semantic linking. Another approach was that we. We tried not to touch too much the way the current machine designers work, so we as a research group, we attempted to simulate the collaboration of engineers in working in a machine design and working in iterations to finalize made up design. And in the parallel of this process, we designed our processing environment so we had to do both the design of the environment and design of the machine system together. And again new features for our environment where were rolled out as necessary, found necessary. So I'm saying we didn't have a predefined specification but added new features. We found Nessus.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Sorry, so something that we assumed to be a real word setup of machine design is. That seems like typically this this kind of engineering departments use you some kind of document management system like a like a PDM product data management system and the various designers are at least on the document level communicating using this PDM system and what's problematic here is that it is document oriented so so it. Many, many of the formal details and machine readable possibilities have gone missing in this kind of approach.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So what we did it was that we tried to simulate this kind of collaboration by using our researchers as like professional designers. For instance, we rolled one researcher as a cat designer, one researcher to be responsible for the hydraulic hydraulic design, and one researcher for the mechanical design. And what we found out, of course, because we are now moved to working with structured documents and semantic models. We needed role for foreign information designer. Someone who watches for the interlinks between these various decent design domains. And as we are working with the real time simulation, we had to assign a role for someone designing the simulation. While the reason that simulation matters here is that it is a direct use case for us for a connected to semantic model of a working machine, so we could readily use the contact information for. Generation of simulation models for the system.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
OK, so. In the in the environment, we reused the original design application just much as possible. For instance, we did the. Can design with an actual application that the industry industry uses at the moment. And. The way we used CAD applications was that we tried to provide provide enrichments to the data into data source data itself, and only use these kind of like hard hard coded on hand coded mappings as vinyl fall back if we didn't find any other solution for a problem the original designs were then automated, automatically transformed to structured documents by using various export formats, adapters, and APIs. Mostly to create XML SVG and already have representations of the original designs. And so we the environment consisted of a toolchain that automatically converts this original designs into an intercreditor semantic model and we had build rebuild automatics, work workflows and the kind of data aggregation tools in order to achieve this and for the help to help the designers to made up if their data is. Valid or not, we did with provided them with some data validators. For instance, a developer designer, Good Press, press run button to see if he's hydraulic design is well connected or if there are any, like if if it lacks some semantics we need for, for instance, for simulation generation. And finally like probably give us some point of reference on how well we are doing with our work. We created a small semantic viewer app. Applications that implement some of the let's say, let's say, rudimentary features for this kind of virtual machine laboratories. It supports two and 3D views of the designs, semantic search, real time simulation, and some simple measurement tools. For instance, I can measure a specific force in a specific Celine and Sue leader at that given moment.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So just to give you a small walkthrough of what this kind of workflow looks like, I I will go through how hydraulic design is transformed into semantic model and into a running application. So here we see the original hydraulic design in Vertex HD commercial application for drawing this kind of hydraulic designs, so this design is 10 processed by export.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Interface and placed inside our process data processing environment which was implemented with Eclipse and Apache Ant. So within this environment I can run the validators and run the workflow. That process is this original data into RDF and SVG.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And for instance, if I view this hydraulic design in Protege, we can see that there's these components are interconnected and they are mapped into given ontology.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And finally, we can use our player application to view the hydraulic system in connection to the semantic model. For instance, in this picture I've selected a given cylinder from the hydraulic design and I can see how from from the left side of the picture I can see from a semantic search how it relates to other components in the in the model. And for instance, I can navigate to other cylinders into system.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, so this was an example from one of the decent domains. In total we enriched design documents for three domains including can open hydraulic and mechanical design from can open. We had three networks, so it was kind of like almost complete model. In addition to this, we provided cross references between the given designs. So for instance, we connected hydraulic cylinder or hydraulic components to corresponding can open components. So usually the same component appears in different roles and in two or more desired. So this kind of growth for cross references were also given mostly by hand because we didn't have resources to investigate this any further, but but The thing is that we. We managed to build an integrated simulation model for for this system as well. We quite didn't manage to build it automatically, but most of the integration was was done with our automatic tools, so I said the process and environment was largely implemented by using Eclipse platform along with some plugins and for the workflow we fall back to a very rudimentary Apache and tool. And dimension that we we kind of tried to use as low level tools as possible. A standard XML tools for mostly used for RDF processing so. This was enabled by using a kind of Canonical aksamit serialization. So for instance, this kind of data validators could be then written using Schematron, which we were already familiar with. And so we had to also provide some custom components to adapt the data from the design programs. For this task we we have to use some XL as well as current custom patent scripts.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
In terms of the model and the ontology we started with, I'm saying only RDF because we we didn't want to. End up using features we we really don't need, but in the end we found out that it was physically the feasible way of doing this. Modeling was must use RDF schema along with some all features. Now the universe of relations were used quite extensively and because of this we had to use some of the old properties. We didn't find any ontology for our field of work, so so because of this we had to create a new knew semerjian ontology and it contains models for this design. Domains, domains in question, as well as some top level models that aim to create these domains together into a consistent ontology and as a result we got around 52 classes and 58 objects or worth of data. When integrated with data from the design documents, we get instanced more than 600 instances of data, which which I guess is is quite little. But given that we have in the created three different design domains, it's make makes the data quite heterogeneous.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Finally, for this semantic viewer application, we we implemented it as a rough prototype of what kind of virtual machine laboratory features we want, and the idea was that we used this RDF data model and read it directly into the semantic viewer, so we wouldn't need to further make any transformations to the RDF data, so it's kind of natively supports the RDF model. It's based on the stack of open source software with Python And some JavaScript. I'm guessing if you want the details you will. Take a first look at our paper.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So some some notes about what we did. First, I would like to mention that we didn't start by designing the data model first, but we started by creating the environment on the basis of our needs and and evolving the data model from the features arising from the actual design documents and processes. So we tried to keep the overhead minimal in this these terms. In terms of female features, our environment is already able to provide the kind of aspects we really require, notably it deep support for us rapid prototyping with with the evolving data and semantic search and and simulation support. And I'm saying we don't have much data, but technically it's the scaling is doable, but in terms of design practices we may need to rethink some some aspects. For instance how this kind of mappings. Can't be more automatically done. And I said we are using RDF and also new design domains can be easily introduced as required.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
What this interesting that in terms of technical problems, the semantic web technologies weren't bottleneck. I I have to admit that most of these problems emerged to our quite extensive users on standard browser features. For instance, for the Treaty we had to use with web GL and for the real time simulation Websockets. And these are kind of rapidly evolving implementations. But in terms of the application domains and multiple problems arouse. First of all, the data is encoded in in very heterogeneous set of documents and it's it's encoded in documents and if we talk about linked data then I would say we have like 100% of level 0 linked data. So there are no licenses. Most of the formats appropriate area and so on. It's it's it's kind of chaos in that matter. Also the whole domain largely lacks this kind of world defined, let alone openable Kappel Aries and schemata and. And I said we didn't find any existing good ontologies we could apply here in our case. Of this kind of explicit and open licensing of information we depend on, for instance, data sheets for the components we need. There they are, they they are kind of. Almost 100% lacking. So. The licensing issue is is a real problem here.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
OK, so to conclude, we I think we successfully applied semantic web technologies to modeling data required for a virtual machine laboratory Canary generation. It enabled us to create the global comprehensive representation of the design data. So I'm not saying we could could have not achieved this with any other technology, but I think and I my my. Understanding at the moment is that this may have been one of the easiest ways, and one of the quicker space for us to enable this kind of data model. And. One of the problems is is for us is the complexity arising from the this kind of process heterogeneous process involving involving a lot of different kind of documents and and in this library we the design of adapters we are using, it's it's kind of like a tradeoff between complexity and getting access to some data we really need and finally work for some butter deployement of our approach in the industry I'm talking about on. I would argue that. We need to develop this kind of more standard domain domain vocabularies and ontologies as well as entity data and licensing models so more urban collaborative working on these fields would be from my point of view, beneficial. So.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
That's about 8 four for me. What I wish to say for, for for. The last thing is that this prototype environment we are. I'm talking about will be released under an open source license, so it will be available for you for further dissemination and and exploration. So thank you. What I didn't really or weather is not really able to grasp from your presentation, is how exactly the data integration done. Because you had those three models right? You did model them in RDF, but you said at the same time that you try to use as much as possible from the schemata. Yeah, not to use really complex construct. So then how exactly the data integration on? Yeah. OK, so there are two approaches. We are using one one of them is just using an extra RDF file to map like by hand these datasets together and the another it was ace based on using local identity identifiers so. We much local identifiers within the same project, 222 like. Compiled together this kind of entities between between the designs. So this this is a matter we would like to further investigate and actually are working on at the moment and what I think is that we need to use some kind of more automated mapping tool or provide provide the engineer some some other ways to provide this mapping data. But I guess then the distribution of the model should also be richer. Not well, depending on. I mean you showed only to some classes you didn't show more than that. So then I guess for automated mapping you need richer description of each of the concepts that are present in the model so that you can do something like this. Yes, OK, let's thank the speaker again, thank you, thank you.
