I figured I should probably do something that actually contributes some diversity to our tool portfolio and I looked at, you know, a lot of these latent variable models, parametric base and so on. You could just actually go and you know brute force optimize. So it turns out to be actually rather nasty to implement because it's a discrete maximization problem. And it's fairly easy to implement. Take get the corresponding subgradient in those size. This is fairly straightforward to implement. This actually is highly multimodal, so if I distribute my optimization problem among many machines, I have absolutely no guarantee. That each machine will give me something that is, you know, going to converge to a comperable. What else could you do is you could use a variational approximation. And well again, you have an alternating convex optimization problem. This is actually in terms of parameters, little bit worse than what I showed you before. It turns out not to be always quite as good as sampling, I mean. Here's something that we essentially do, and basically we make local copies of the state table as far as we actually need it now. I only really need to do discrete updates whenever I reassign a word. So therefore it will be essentially a lot of variations on a theme. You can collapse out the topic assignments and you get this interesting dichotomy. So if you keep your Uncle apps representation, most things are usually quite bad. If you use a variational approximation, things are reasonably easy, but you have a huge memory footprint, but you can actually parallelize. The first thing is that the local state is too large basically and I have a lot of documents, a lot of user actions. You know you might have two billion user activities. The next problem is that the global state is too large and that causes actually two issues. And then you pick the machines that you're going to choose to be the master through something like consistent hashing. Consequences the other small context a little bit, because it's actually a very useful tool, is just, you know, the notion of you know exponential family conjugates, posteriors, and collapsing these parameters, and that can be all made very nice and nonparametric. OK, with the natural parameter. The other thing is you should really look at the computer architecture that you have when you build large scale systems. If you and me for a little bit longer, so essentially what we have is we have collapsed representation with, you know our hyperparameters and.