And it wasn't a fluke 'cause Denver really did beat Green Bay on average. Famously, in one of his books he speculated that if we rewound planet Earth to a point where life had yet to start and we gave the primordial super quick stir, zapped it with a lightning Bolt or two so that it was just a bit different and then let evolution go, that if we stopped it in 2006, we wouldn't see things like humans. Stephen Jay Gould more right than wrong or more wrong than right and all we would need is a suitably programmed constructed simulation model and a very powerful computer. Thought experiments, well, thought experiments do not generate new facts about the world, right? So the lure of artificial worlds of would be worlds of the kind of simulation models that casty and beddo are kind of invoking is that you can have your cake and eat it, but the artificial world, just like the real world, would be simultaneously general, precise and real. My assertion is that simulation models of complex systems I've narrowed it down slightly should be elegant, beautiful and lean, but also. So settling empirical questions, why should a simulation model any simulation model right? No matter how grand big powerful. Do I wear underwear whilst I'm lecturing? This is a model Dinosaur in a wind tunnel. If I turn up the interest rate then this fills up with unemployed people and I'm not happy. So something that potentially might link them together is this standing info relationship that they might hold, so models are sometimes said to stand in for the real phenomena or systems that they represent. The. So let's look at scientific models. Rather than driven directly by observations of reality, so this is something called the physics model. One thing that might lead us to believe that models stand in for the real world is that we sometimes want to use them to make accurate predictions. To make quantitative predictions, yes I can get it up the stairs or no, I can't OK. My theory, in fact. So we're OK? Exploiting science, maybe through engineering or whatever. I'm in particular, what about simulation models of complex systems? So here's one take on. Problematic, so does it make accurate predictions well? Then more flexible you can tinker with them, and they're easy to build. And likewise, simulation models are more explicit because they are concrete. I mean in some sense you could. The dimensions along which they beat each other. And things like clearer, explicit, and intersubjective personal judgments. So where models strive for realism per say, realism as such, then the modeling cycle that we just introduced is broken and you get a very tight coupling between things that you see things that you put in your model. When that happens. He said what we see is what we know.