[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so I read a book I can't remember when it came out. 92 maybe 98. By John casti. Who's written a series of books about complexity science? He's got a book called Complexification and a whole bunch of other books. Pop size sort of books, and this book was called would be worlds how science simulation is changing science. OK, I thought, wow, that sounds good. I'll read that because you know, I'm doing simulations and it kicked off with an example which just horrified me. OK, so here's. The Super Bowl. The Green Bay Packers playing the Denver Broncos. Super Bowl 32. I can't remember whether it was exactly the Super Bowl that he was talking about, but I think it was. So Denver beat Green Bay 31 points to 24. But and this was a bit of a surprise and a lot of people thought it might have been a bit of a fluke. Denver had been lucky. Acasti says. Well. We're lucky enough now to be at a point where we can assess whether Denver were lucky or not. And he describes a computer game that his son had. Which is an American football computer game and he said that the neat thing about it is that you can get the computer to play both teams right, so you can have one player game or two player game where two humans play each other, or you can get the computer just to play itself and that you can specify real teams from the American National Football League. So he was able. To simulate Super Bowl 32 on his computer and he says he ran it 25 times. And it wasn't a fluke 'cause Denver really did beat Green Bay on average. And this was, you know, the computer game represents the individual players. The same players you know, the same squad of players. So I was a bit depressed by this example. I don't know whether other people can see WHI I was depressed by it. Can anyone sum sum up? What's wrong with what John Caster is doing there? More complex application. It's really cool modeling job. So anything else? Automatic. You aggregating more and you know when you are ready creating something that I should be losing more information and. This would be a problem because, OK, so just taking the mean score might not have been such a good idea. Anything else? So many factors there are. What if I told you that the game was published the year after the Super Bowl? What's the problem with that? It's biased, right? What if I told you that the game was published the year before the Super Bowl? It's still biased, right? Still designed by American football fans. Who have beliefs about how good John Elway is as a quarterback? And those beliefs are not have, you know, they weren't. They don't come from God, they weren't delivered by Scripture. They're just the way that people think. So. So what has he? What is John casting really found out by running his simulation? That became designers believe that then we respected. Yeah, well, that that belief was implicit in the way that they understood American football at the time. So he's found out about ideas about American football, right? There's no sense in which he has found out directly about Denver, the Denver Broncos, or the Green Bay Packers. OK, that's really. Really important.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So here's Stephen J. Gould again. Famously, in one of his books he speculated that if we rewound planet Earth to a point where life had yet to start and we gave the primordial super quick stir, zapped it with a lightning Bolt or two so that it was just a bit different and then let evolution go, that if we stopped it in 2006, we wouldn't see things like humans. We would see things that were very different. So thought experiment. I don't know whether you agree. With him, or whether you suspect that he might be wrong, OK? The fact that. I don't know how many people agree with him. Roughly how many people think that he's wrong? I wonder why my phone because of evolution, that you know there's been some major extensions in the past and those were basically accident because like meteorites and stuff like that. So if those would have happened, of course evolution totally different. OK. The whole, but maybe you know you know reptiles. Physics fundamentals so the point is. Yeah, you change things slightly and then let it go again. But the question of relevance here to us is not is not whether we agree or not, but the fact that it's possible to agree or disagree to be convinced or not. Basically that's the sign of a bad thought experiment. So this is a thought experiment, but it's not a very good one. Well, if it was supposed to, it depends what Stephen Jacob was after. If he was. If he was just trying to make us think about something, then it's fine. But a lot of thought experiments are supposed to allow you through reflection, to realize that there's a way of taking the world that you might have been inclined to is wrong headed Angels dancing on the head of a pin, dropping clocks running in trains. There are these thought experiments that work from Einstein and whoever Galileo becausw they kind of. They sort of unavoidably lead you to the same conclusion right there, transparent. Here we've got a thought experiment that's a bit less transparent. So not bad. Oh, who's the editor in Chief of Artificial Life suggested that we were lucky enough these days. Nearly maybe, maybe we soon would be to be in a position to settle this question right there? Stephen Jay Gould more right than wrong or more wrong than right and all we would need is a suitably programmed constructed simulation model and a very powerful computer. I mean, I think he would agree that maybe. The amount of computer power that we would need. Maybe we will never have. So. Is this just like what John Cassidy said on the last slide? Absolutely, there's a notion here, but Mark wants to settle an empirical question, a question about the way the world is by appeal to a simulation model, OK?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So settling empirical questions, why should a simulation model any simulation model right? No matter how grand big powerful. Be able to settle an empirical question. Or what kinds of work we can recast that as what kinds of empirical question could be settled, if any. So could these be settled by simulation modeling? Would Mark better think that these could be settled by simulation modeling? Do I wear underwear whilst I'm lecturing? If not, if you can't settle that by simulation, then you know you're in a pretty bad position 'cause the empirical test is not something that you would want to be involved in. Is there life on Mars? OK, could we save NASA a huge amount of money by just demonstrating that there is life on Mars in a simulation model? So these questions can't be settled. And we kind of agree that the RE running the tape experiment or the Denver flipped it question. Can't either. Then what can we do with simulation models? OK, so we obviously can.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Something, but it's going to require us to think about what it is to be a model. OK, so here are a bunch of different models. This is a mathematical model. It's part of the paper by Alan Graf and on the handicap principle this is a scale model of some architecture. This is a toy car or model car. These are model organisms. A zebra fish C. Elegans Drosophila melanogaster. Here's a catwalk model. This is a model Dinosaur in a wind tunnel. And this is the Phillips model, which is a model hydraulic model of the economy which has flasks and valves and pumps which represent hire. If I turn up the interest rate then this fills up with unemployed people and I'm not happy. So I mean, it almost starts to look like maybe the word model is just being used so diversely that there isn't anything that links together all of these things right?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So something that potentially might link them together is this standing info relationship that they might hold, so models are sometimes said to stand in for the real phenomena or systems that they represent. OK, we might not have the ability to directly. Poll or probe or question are real system. So maybe if we make a system that stands in for it then we can carry out that kind of empirical inquiry by proxy. OK. But that doesn't look right. OK, so here are some models. It would have really good way of people standing in for people like you and me. Here are some more so if you were going to have if models were going to stand in for the systems that they represent, then you would have much more average looking people than this, right? This was supposed to be my average looking family, but even these people look kind of. Far from average, you know the real. The. It's more accurate to say that these models are idealizing the systems that they represent. In some sense, they dispense with certain aspects of the system in order to highlight or accentuate others, but are important in the context within which they are working. So if we're going to go with the real instances, you know this is my son Milo. People are not going to buy kids clothes if they see him. Turning around covered in crap. So just this idealization notion is that going to do a better job than this, standing in for notion is that going to help us understand what it is to be a model?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So let's look at scientific models. So throwaway catwalk models and what have you. Let's let's focus in on physics. Because physics is mature and it has something to say about what models should be doing. So Physics says models should be theory LED. Rather than driven directly by observations of reality, so this is something called the physics model. Physics model of models. So one commences with a theory that applies to some phenomena or phenomenon. Someone builds a model that reflects the theory. The model helps you generate hypothesis, new questions to ask about the real world. And the hypothesis to drive the observations that you make about the real world. And those observations might cause you to change your theory. That might falsify your theory theory. So this is a cycle. OK, so there's no. It is not necessary to start at the theory. It would help me to explain it to start at that point. Driven by. Not directly driven absolutely, so that's the key. The key idea. We have been fighting so and so we're going to make make more clear what I mean by that over the next couple of slides. 'cause it's it's maybe subtle and I guess I have to say that this is my take on what modeling is and there's a huge literature in the theory, the philosophy of science on modeling. And I've not read all of it. But I think these ideas.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Help us to make sense of the problems that John Castione Mark bed over running into. So. One thing that might lead us to believe that models stand in for the real world is that we sometimes want to use them to make accurate predictions. So for example, I go to IKEA and I see a sofa and I think that sofa looks nice, but am I going to be able to get up the stairs into my bedroom? So I render a wireframe graphic of it in a CAD Cam system. And that enables me. To make quantitative predictions, yes I can get it up the stairs or no, I can't OK. So here the theory, the role of theory here is almost transparent because the theory of medium sized rigid bodies is so. Implicit in the way that we take the world to be, that we don't even really notice that it's a theory. But it's still there and there still is a distinction between the observations and the model, because I throw away, I don't model everything that I've observed. There's plenty of stuff that I've observed about the sofa that I just dispense with, because that's not relevant to the problem. My theory, in fact. Specifies what aspects I can dispense with. The key thing here for this to work is that I have to have very strong faith in this theory. In order to have faith in this in these quantitative predictions or the ability of my model to make quantitative predictions. And this is what's beginning to. Give problems for complexity science, if that's to be a predictive science, OK? Not supposed to do any predictions, they only supposed to. And what is the theory, right? So we're OK? When information when we are moving to this sort of making predictions, way of thinking. Exploiting science, maybe through engineering or whatever. OK, and so such models are still idealizations. OK, I'm going to hold a thought.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And maybe come back to it. So what about simulation models? Which are a kind of scientific model? I'm in particular, what about simulation models of complex systems? Are they different or special from other or different or special with respect to other models? So here's one take on. How simulations relate to models. In 1974, John Maynard Smith suggested that whereas models should minimize detail, simulation should maximize it. So he has this idea of models as being in some sense abstract general. Idealized, and simulations is in some sense being concrete, detailed specific. OK, which is a problem, you know, because we want to do simulation models. So how do we reconcile that that difference of opinion? It means probably that we're not doing simulations in the sense that John Maynard Smith was thinking. Or Alternatively, we're not doing modeling in the sense that he was thinking. So this this confusion if there if this confusion is real is going to make things like validating a simulation model. Problematic, so does it make accurate predictions well? Did we want the predictions at a level of minimal detail, or did we want them at a particular level of maximal detail? And also verification. Is my system bug free? Well. If I'm not clear about what level of abstraction I'm employing, then it's going to be very difficult for me to know about that. Because the ways in which my system departs, from how I understand the real world are many and varied and span different levels.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So there's. Some. Potential for confusion in the role of simulation. This hasn't prevented plenty of people from suggesting why we should resort to simulation modeling. Some people have. I'm not saying all of these people agree with this statement, but certainly some of them do. For example. Jeff Miller in 1995 wrote a paper called How To Do Real Science with Computer Simulations, which was quite critical of. Scathing even of some of the work that computer scientists do, but he was quite clear that simulation modeling was going to be better than math modeling in some ways. So these are the kind of things that people sometimes say. Simulations are more realistic. Which is good that's taken to be good. Then more flexible you can tinker with them, and they're easy to build. Which is also good. There's also some sense in which they claim to be clearer, because there a real thing in the world that you can prod. Whereas in some sense, the implication is that mathematical models are not really in the world and are. Reflected by the words on the page, but are not really constituted by the words on the page. And likewise, simulation models are more explicit because they are concrete. In some sense, they're real artifacts that you've made. And also, and I don't really understand this, but there have been claims that they're more into subjective, but I can email you my simulation code. And you just have it, whereas math models somehow have to be transmitted through some weird interpretation by your brain. I mean in some sense you could. Math models will argue the exact opposite, right? But math models are clearer. Because I can write it down on a bit of paper and I can write the entire math model down on the paper. But you can't write your entire simulation model down a bit of paper. They are more explicit because all of the assumptions are up front. They claim, and they're more intersubjective. Because I can publish it in a paper and you don't have to reimplement it, you can just work through it. And really this debate is just. I think a false debate percents in the sense in which one approach can just be claimed to be better than the other, and that these things. The dimensions along which they beat each other. I don't think it's ever that is ever going to work. I think sometimes I think different models are going to be good for different things and in some sense pluralism is good. Doing things via multiple approaches is always going to be better than doing them via one. And things like clearer, explicit, and intersubjective personal judgments. But really, this is the thing I think that we're going to have to concentrate on the notion that simulations are more realistic.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So where models strive for realism per say, realism as such, then the modeling cycle that we just introduced is broken and you get a very tight coupling between things that you see things that you put in your model. When that happens. There's a sense in which your modeling is doomed to succeed. That you repeatedly tinker with your model until it matches your observations, and then what are you going to learn from that? Basically, it's a source of confirmatory, kind of. Data. Because you're not going through this whole cycle, you're not revising and extending theory. You're just building something that tells you what you already thought. So one example of this is some work by Tom Ray. One of the sort of pioneers of artificial life, he built an artificial ecology, evolutionary ecology within a computer called Tierra. And in it he observed the coevolution of parasites hyper parasites. And probably hyper hyper parasites. And one of the things that he said is when he looked at this he saw. He said what we see is what we know. He saw he recognized. The behavior on the screen as being analogous to the behavior in the rainforest where he worked. But the risk for Tom Ray is that what he knew. Had gone into what he built and so it's hardly surprising, but what he saw was what he knew. I'm not sure how subtle this point is or how obvious this point is. It's always I always find it very difficult to gauge how. I'm new and insight this is for people, but it seems that there's considerable amount of work published within complexity science or especially, you know, modeling kind of biological systems where the goal is simply to create a model which resembles as closely as possible what the person thinks is happening in the real world. That's the aim of the modeling process. And in doing that, there's little to be learned, it seems. With the model change with time as the knowledge changes. Yeah so. I remember there was a seminar that I was in as an undergraduate psychology seminar and we were studying a model of memory by Tulving. I think it was, and we'd read a few papers and I'd read them in order. He started out with two boxes or something, or three boxes and two arrows named iconic short term and long term memory, and then over the course of several papers he added more boxes, more arrows, some of the errors became dotted. Some of the boxes became lozenges, and but every time he revised the model, he could account for more of the empirical data. And I was so halfway through the seminar I presented this work and the guy who was taking the seven are Mike Schafer said. So Seth, do you think this is a good model then? Do you think this model is good? And I said, yeah, you know it's getting better all the time. And might just sort of. Just paused for quite a long time whilst I and that sort of forced me to think about whether I'd said something stupid. And now I realized that what he was getting at was well. This kind of process of just continual revision and tinkering Now what are you learning by just adding on more boxes for just labeling the things that you don't understand and tying them together? So yes, these kind of models can change overtime as you learn more things, and other things become interesting to you, but not in not in necessarily an interesting way. So the way.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Either. Towards the end of my PhD I was working with two other PhD students. We were all working on simulation models of biological systems. We were all getting increasingly concerned about the kind of status that simulation modeling had theoretical status and whether indeed we should just try and learn some more maths and do stuff the way that theoretical biologists typically did it. So we sat down and wrote a paper together where we tried to layout what we took to be the defining characteristics of the kinds of simulation modeling that we were doing and we came up with the phrase opaque thought experiment to describe. What what a simulation model is like or was like for us so? We were expressly dealing with situations where we didn't have strong faith in the theories, so we weren't in a domain where. What are the equations that govern fluid flow? Navier Stokes yeah so we didn't have something like that right? Which is just people have faith in that you model those equations and that tells you about fluid, how fluids flow and you know you can validate that model. Calibrate it and use it to do something useful. The kinds of things that we were simulating we just didn't. We didn't have that understanding of them so we treated them as thought experiments. So what what is it? White called them? Thought experiments, well, thought experiments do not generate new facts about the world, right? That they're not empirical in any way. All they do is they reorganize once theoretical commitments so they Force One to reflect upon the way that one has theorized about the world. And sometimes they make you change, or they bring about questions that need to be answered. If you're to stick with the theory that is in your mind, so they're in the realm of ideas, not in the realm of real data. What makes them special? What makes them different from regular thought experiments is that they are partially mechanized. So the machine is doing part of the modeling work. So for example the genetic algorithm. Is the bit, but that's kind of working out how the system changes overtime rather than. By comparison with a math model. Where the mathematician has to work that out has to has to work through the equations and it's this partially mechanized nature, which means that they are opaque. So. Valentino Braitenberg who was a. Neuro scientist? Or is it neuro scientist? I think he might still be alive. Coined something that he called the law of. Downhill design and uphill analysis so it's easy to build things, but it's hard to understand them. And that's the that's the source of this opacity. When you build your simulation model, you can throw it together. It's fairly easy, you just need a bit of Java. Or whatever you know some computer language. It's very, very easy to write a little agent based simulation of something, but that's just the start of the job and the job is then to understand why the system behaves in the way that it does, and that's much harder. By contrast, math modeling. Building the model such that it's on the page is very hard to complete. The process of constructing the model, but by the time you constructed it, it's trivial. The consequences of it are kind of there on the page, right there in the last line of the math model, QED. So there's this feeling that with a math model, although it's hard. To build the model to get to the point where you have something to show someone. By that point you also have an understanding of how the system is working because you built it by hand. No. It's a fairly. It's a rough and ready way of distinguishing between the two. So why do? Why don't why isn't everyone think about simulation models in this way, right? As being rather as being intuition pumps, idea, factories, thought experiments, ways of challenging theory rather than ways of directly finding out about the world, which seems to be the way that a lot of people think about simulation models.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So why do people make borok, you know? Spatially distributed multi part simulation models of the entire traffic system in Switzerland down to the level of individual mothers and fathers going to work and then picking their kids up from home. And he's gotta go and play volleyball so this Red Square represents the volleyball place that he's going to go and. While they sucked into that way of thinking, people don't try and do that with math models, right? They don't get sucked into building math models, but. Try to encompass more and more and more of the systems. So I had to have a PhD student called Parikh who Eric Silverman, who draw drew my attention to some work by biologists who's also a theoretical biologist called Levins. And he suggested that models in ecology, I think, is where he was thinking that there's a tradeoff between three factors, so. Realism, generality and precision you can't maximize all three of those. If you want to increase the precision of your model, you have to give up either some realism or some generality, or both. And likewise along the other dimensions. There's been some work on subsequent to his his theory. That demonstrates that you can actually kind of suggests that well, actually, in some circumstances it's possible to imagine models where you do maximize where you do increase 43. From our perspective Eric and myself. What we what we inferred from this from this little literature is 1/4 fourth dimension of tractability. So the notion is Levins was just working on the assumption that one was constrained by. The issue of tractability, right? But the advent of computer simulations kind of makes this. Constraint less apparent right? So the lure of artificial worlds of would be worlds of the kind of simulation models that casty and beddo are kind of invoking is that you can have your cake and eat it, but the artificial world, just like the real world, would be simultaneously general, precise and real. But implicit something that you don't notice because you concentrate on the building, the construction of the model is that such models become intractable. They become as hard to understand as the thing that you were modeling in the first place. And if you focus on if you if your journals and conferences allow you to publish models where you just present the model and describe its behavior and allude in some sense to the fact that that's interesting, then that's fine. But if journals forced you to explain. Where the behavior originates in your model, then you would have to confront this tractability issue. But your system is complex to a degree. That understanding it probably requires building more models. So. But this four way trade off is one that artificial worlds kind of allow you to. Deceive yourself about. To some extent. And complexity science becausw. It's used to dealing with systems where it's difficult to explicate the relationship between the low level and the high level behavior is kind of prone to this. Self delusion. Self deceit. But it's quite people are interested in artifacts that are complex and hard to explain, so building them is not such a bad.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Idea? So this is my last slide. So this is my. My assertion is that simulation models of complex systems I've narrowed it down slightly should be elegant, beautiful and lean, but also. Simple and unrealistic. So here's Kate, Mark Kate Moss doing. Being simplistic in her attitude to the British media. OK, so. We're going to carry on talking a bit more about simulation modeling in a bit more detail, and by the end of the short course I'm going to be talking about some practicalities. But I think for now I just want to leave you with this notion that there is there is a minefield out there using simulation models and that the presentations that we. That you gave yesterday, you flirted with that to some extent. You know allowed you to read or put stuff in front of you where people were claiming to be able to do quite exciting things with simulation models and for me. I think I told I said this to a few people in the pub that evening. For me, there's a. It's difficult to understand how. On the one hand, there can be communities of people who believe that simulating the traffic system in Switzerland on a supercomputer is possible and realistic, and is is possible and practical and is going to enable them to make beautiful interventions in that traffic system. So there's those people. And then, on the other hand, there are communities of people that are finding it hard to understand A7 neuron. Continuous time recurrent neural network. We're finding it hard to understand the dynamics of 1 dimensional cellular automata or finding it hard to understand. Asynchronous updating random Boolean networks, you know that the tension between the fact that these kind of simulation model components, the parts of the models that we're building are so difficult to understand in their aggregate behavior. Just that just seems to conflict in a way that I don't understand with. These large scale grand would be world sort of modeling enterprises, so that's something. To think about. So it's time for lunch. 2:00 o'clock we start back here to think about the results of your experiment.
