We have seen how light fields can be acquired in digital cameras. How multispectral imaging can work, and of course, temporal light variation has been of interest for a long time. And as we show in our paper, we can actually separate this, usually for the Super pixel layout into a separable spatial basis and plenoptic basis. Uh, 1D color filter array to give you some intuition. Compute the plan or the projection of the panoptic function from that, and it's similar theorem is the plenoptic foreign multiplexing theorem which analyzes the same thing and through domain we see for transform here and it states that the full channels which are the red box here like one of those tiles, the different tiles are the food channels are locali related to the Fourier transform of the plug-in optic function. This diagram shows that we can decompose any algorithm here into basically 3 design choices that we have, and the first one is the choice of the spatial and the plenoptic basis, particular their number in shape, where the spatial basis determining the sampling layout and the mixture properties. Where is the plan Optic base is determining the subspace of the plenoptic function that can be represented as the second choice. Jump right into an intuitive example for Thierry, which most of you should be familiar with, which is emerging with color filter arrays. This framework is general enough that it is describing the most plenoptic multiplexing algorithms that are around so far and devices, and by doing so, it basically enables comparative analysis of these different designs which we exemplify by performing noise analysis for color and light field multiplexing within a common framework. But maybe most interesting Lee. The data set is taken from the depth photography paper and on the left and in the middle we see reconstructions in the Fourier domain and on the right is spatial reconstruction. In practice it works quite well with nonlinear filters such as the spatial joint bilateral filter as seen on the right here. In order to do this, we need to propagate the sensor noise into the final reconstruction. We employ a standard computer vision noise model that describes it as the sum of an additive signal independent part and a signal dependent photo noise part. Is then given by the signal divided by the propagated or amplified noise where the noise amplification factor depends on the trace, or similarly on the singular values of the combined spatial in plenoptic multiplexing basis. This case perform always worse, but we need to consider that this noise model does not consider. Take questions now, thank you. OK, so in summary, we have presented a theory of plenoptic multiplexing and demultiplexing. The theory allows us to identify design choices for plenoptic modulators and also to evaluate them. It enables a principled way of exploring the area of plenoptic multiplexing and also allows us to transfer knowledge from areas that are well explored such as color demosaicing to other dimensions of the plenoptic function, such as lightfields, temporal variation or spectral variation. It's present in the plenoptic function and the task of plenoptic multiplexing as we define it is to at least partially prevent this loss of information. Introduce the image formation model so we have the image intensity which is. That means direction, wavelength and time, and this integral is happening on the sensor. That means we have a restricted cone of race that are being integrated that pass through the aperture times some spectral region and temporal region of interest.