As epsilon goes to zero, the rate function for sample. This is the expectation of the maximum over this Sigma algebra using Shift theorem for petition. Both on HO and on its complement, the test makes emotionally no mistake. So consider the test which rejects when teams becomes large. After some random sample size, you are sure that the test makes no error and over if you are under the alternative right and provided this condition is satisfied. Well, this is just a small condition and basically this means that the partition is made of square. These authors involve poison representation of the empirical process in conjunction with very old ID. The difficulty comes from the fact that tiene that aesthetics right is assume of dependent random variables full because all the empirical measure some to one. This is what is difficult. This is easy because the samples are independent, but there is much more. Because you make the sample size random and this is the key of this position tree and Moreover the on average the number of points which fall in each bin right? And this is called personalization and this is a statistical trick to prove their central limit theorem and actually the key of the pro. And you consider the test which rejects H zero and TN becomes large so typically larger than this guys here. This test has a septic significance level Alpha and Moreover, provided this condition on the partition holds, the test is also consistently mean that if you are under the alternative fuel, the power goes to one. The challenging question is to pick some density estimate. Suggesting that even the selected key N search at the L1 error between the target and F goes to zero at the rate one of us proud of. Good example in the case of the increasing exponential families. And is that the set of free transform of each model is closed in the set of Fourier transform of order CDs right? That you have some clothes that in this sense here I mean whatever the sequence GN in FK, which goes to some limit, J right and so that whatever. So this is a closure condition with respect to the consistency topology. This gives you a class of sets up. An the guy which minimizes over each K this quantity here. Distance but the minimum distance estimate FK an for each FK. Approach estimation term Delta K of F. And Please note that this inequality doesn't require any condition of the densities. So you have this inequality and then who is a natural candidate to force this? Edward Vandermoon, which proposed the goodness of fit test statistics. It seems that in that case we can have an error bound which is on the order of 10, but it's not completely sure and details should be written down. All the guys which are living in this model and you support that the set of free transform is closed in the set of all densities. Assumption here old first the free transfer of the generative function is continuous on theater. This means that. Did you take some tea to 0 which is on the boundary of the of the set of parameters?