[0.0s - 29.0s]
I'm so deep Sircar. And I'm from the University of South Florida and this is the team that basically did the work we have proselyting. She's a sign language expert and then the two students who did most of the work which is Alan and Sunita, an art korsmeyer, was our special education expert.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Mom. So basically we wanted to go beyond single gesture. So if you look @ language as Christian. Pointed out, there are various aspects to it so you can talk about finger spelling and look at hand shapes, and there's a lot of work in computer vision that has looked at hand shapes. Then also you can look at the problem of recognizing isolated signs. So here it's one word at a time so as to speak. OK. Then you have the problem of. Continuous sentence recognition. OK. So this is a much harder problem and that's the problem that we're looking at.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So if you look at related work in sign language, this is what I would say a brief summary. There are more. So the way we have classified them is into two categories. You have the first category where they use some sort of assistive devices. So you think of like magnetic trackers or gloves or data gloves and so on. And if you look at those kind of work, the recognition. Recognition. I can move on that side. OK, so the recognition rates are around 90. 90 high 90s and then the second category of work that we are mostly interested in is the vision based where you don't use. Data, gloves and so on. And a lot of the work in that category uses Hmm's to do the recognition and a lot of times they use color gloves. And there are a lot of work that is starting to emerge, whereas you saw in Christians work their data color gloves are dropped off and you use the normal skin color and if you look at those kind of work, recognition rates are still in the high 80s. It's not in the 90s and it's in this category. Of signals that we want to folk.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Saw. So in this talk, this is a short talk of. So what we're going to do is just show you some glimpses of the work we have done. One is matching signs to signs in presence of segmentation errors. And then how to take that work and extend it to matching signs two sentences? And we'll talk about movement epenthesis. And then we also have done some work. How we can build sort of extract signs automatically from a collection of?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Senses. So matching single science in clutter, so this is what your input really is on. You see the yellow image that's basically region segmented, constant color patches, and that's what the computer really is seeing. So we would like to be able to handle that kind of. And end.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So you could you could do for example a very simple filtering and you can say OK, my hands cannot be regions that are very large and it cannot be very long gated and has certain aspects and so on. And it has to move so and based on that you can filter and still you'll be left with patches like that and some of the patches are from the face, some of the patches are from the hand, some of the patches are from the person moving in the background and some of the patches in the hands are also missed.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So what we do is we follow this process by grouping process and we have a. We have tried a couple of different ways of doing the grouping so you'd start off with each of these primitive regions and you'd grow them. OK, and you form hand hypothesis is and this is a collection of and hypothesis is for one frame. You could also.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Build this is another way of farming multiple hand hypothesises you could build. Some sort of in hand confidence Maps which are basically based on motion cues. So regions that are moving faster are colored in sort of white color in the middle column, and those are most likely hands. And what we do is look at these regions and you do simple medial axis and then you look at the ends of the medial axis to hypothesize where the hands could be and those hypothesis is. Are what you see on the right hand column, is candidate hands. And of course there are multiple candidates. OK, so you can have different kinds of ways of generating multiple and hypothesis is so. Now we have to sort of read through all these hypothesis to end up with.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The correct match. So basically what you have is if you start from an image, you segment them and then you have a lots of groups or reach our hand hypothesis that are that are proposed OK and those have to be matched and you have that for each of the frames. OK, now. What what you can do is you can say you can build a sort of Inter relational structure on the groups and you can say OK, the group this group in the 1st frame is most similar to this group in the 2nd frame and so on. And you can link them. Right and you can link them across the whole video sequence and then now your your matching is now reduced to finding. Sort of the best sequence so as to speak. OK. Through this groups that matches the signs.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And. What you can think about? Since you're looking for the best sequence, one of the most natural candidates is to look at dynamic time warping, kind of dynamic programming based approaches, and this is a simple. Schematic of our approach. So on the vertical axis are your model. Or your hand sequence that's in your model base. This is sort of the time axis in your in your model and on the horizontal axis is the time axis for your input, and each frame is in one color. So this two entries here are for the same frame all these. 3 blue entries are for the next frame, and so on. Now each of the verticals call columns. Here are four is for group, so this is Group One. In frame one group 2IN frame two, Group One and frame two group 2IN frame two group 3IN frame two and so on. So what you basically have to find is is a path where you choose a group from one frame and the frame and so on and you find the best warping plot. Another way of looking at it is it's sort of a 3D DTW.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Now you can of course, if you if you don't constrain the DTW, it becomes, Derek Lee. Very expensive the way you can constrain it is to put in the standard constraints that you typically use in DTW, but here in this case you have to extend it to groups. So basically the red is saying that the same time frame in your model is matched to different groups across times and the blue green is saying the same group is matching. Two different time frames and and so on. And you can you can you can use these constraints to control.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
The comment or X? And if you do that and you solve the problem, this is what you end up with from. That whole jumble of yellow blobs that you had seen and you can see that it this is the end product of the recognition. Not only has it found out where the hand is. But it was also at the same time matched it to the right sign. And of course, then you can see that at some points the segmentation is not right and you can see when the hands cross each other. The blobs are extended. The key point is that you can do recognition even in the presence of some kind of some low amount of segmentation error. It's tolerant, you don't have to be perfect in all the frames.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And these are some of the other views of the recovered hands. And you can see that the hand can come near the face and. Sort of go by the face and still do the recognition.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So this is a plot of the grouping and ungrouping. So what if what if you just took the raw segmentations that you got and you used it for recognition? If you did that, then this is the curve recognition curve you get and on the top is the solid line, which is the recognition rate you get. If we were to. Manually marked the hand. Turn manually marked down and let the recognition that's the curve again and what is shown in the dots and dash curves are the recognitions you get for the amount of groupings you do. So the this curve. The cross curve here. It's for when you did. When you Group 5 up to five primitive regions together. OK, that's how you control the grouping process. If you group like 10 regions together at most, then you start approaching the ground truth so you don't have to do too much of a grouping. A little bit of grouping actually helps.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Mission. We have also extended this, So what you saw was the DTW kind of matching where you have an instance in your model. An instance coming to you and you match them. If you had the luxury of many instances in your model based then you could build an HMM. Then you have the problem of matching an HMM to a group sequence. OK, and this is unlike the traditional uses of HMM for traditional use of an HMM. Your observation for each observation you have one hand hypothesis, one input coming to you, one observation coming to you. Here are many of these possible observations coming to you, and you have to select one of them. So what you end up doing is an optimization not only over the state sequence but also across the group sequence and you can couple these two in a nice framework. And you can do various kinds of things like you can say OK, What's the best test test? State sequence and the best group sequence. OK, or you can do what the what? The average? What happens if you average over all possible state sequences and you average over all possible group sequences? That kind of reasoning so you can do Max, Max, Max and some salmon and so on. And that I'm not going to talk in more detail about that, but that's there in Allen's work that was in CVR you sometimes.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So what happens if you take this unit basic unit? Now you want to say I want to recognize these signs in sentences. So here is what you want to do is you want to output your recognition in a sentence. And. And that's what we're going to. Do next.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So when you're talking about sentences, one of the problems is. Movement epenthesis this is something which Christian also pointed out. You have this problem where you have a sign and another sign gate where and then you have. So if you look at that sentence on the top, this is the part that's the gate. OK. This is the part where. And then in the middle you have a movement dependence. This is basically you have to move the hand from one side to another. This doesn't have any meaning, it happens over extended number of frames. The number of frames it happens over could be equal to assign for example and. How do you handle this? OK.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So what we do is actually. Embed another layer of time warping on or dynamic program. It's not time warping anymore, it's dynamic programming on top of what you had, so the blue box is what we saw before the red box is what you embed. On top of it, the red box is now going to do dynamic programming programming over all possible signs. OK, so it's a nested dynamic programming kind of approach. So basically this is an approach that we enhanced from from speech recognition speech recognition. There was a method called level building where they use this kind of an approach to handle. Matching words to sentences. And you will see that there are approach does not work well if you just take it from sign language and applied here. So we enhanced it by allowing for this movement dependencies matching in sounds, the coarticulation effect. The transition portion is smaller, much smaller than 4 signs.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So how does the level building work? Well, what you do is is this is your index along state, state, secret test sequence and this is the sequence of possible signs. So you say OK, I'll start with the first location of my state test sequence and I'm going to match the first sign and wherever it ends, let's say the best match ends up to this index. Then you try sign 5 and South here. So these are possible matches. For the first position. OK, and that's where the end. Then you look for the Next up, sorry. Then you look for the next. Sign OK and whatever the end now if you get the next sign matches to the end up to the end of the sentence, you have a possible interpretation for the whole sentence, which is sign 9 & one. Now, here in this we also allow for movement dependencies. So the SV plus three SV plus four those are the sort of the tokens for the movement epenthesis frames, which you basically say OK, ignore these frames and you have a cost for that. OK. And so you try for Level 3. So as you go along here. The sequence. That ends at Level 3 that matches the whole sentence. Is this so? That's one possible interpretation and you continue this until you have sufficient number of interpretations and then you pick the interpretation with the the minimum cost.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
OK. So this is what you what you get. Edit rates so if you look at how do you do sentence level? Error rates early, you have insertion cost substitution costs, undeletion costs, and if you look at 473 signs on an average, we have about 83% recognition at sentence level. Impact of grammar in the in the level building itself, you can impose some grammar constraints like bigram or trigram grammar constraints. By saying OK, one sign cannot follow the other and so on. And that drug grammar constraint we built using just text corpus. If you have English classes of a sign language, you can use that to build those constraints and trigram actually does pretty well.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
You can also do we have in time constraint yet so.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
You can also extend it across signers across signers is a tougher problem in sign language. This is one of the problems if your graduate students in you're looking for problems to solve in sign language, this should be an area to look at. It's it's a much harder problem.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
You can compare, so we have done some comparison with. If you take the Rossine speech recognition level building. This is the error rate you get. And this is our sort of error rate, and then you have CRF. You can try LDR S. They don't scale well with the number of signs we have.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
OK, so using this approach you can you can handle. Half sleeves like you don't have to have full sleeves. He can have half speed shirts and you can see the number of hypothesis is that are being generated. So each circle is a hypothesis for a frame. OK, and what you see is is basically here is the recognition result. And this is the possible hand locations and you can see. They're not perfect all the time. But they don't have to be to do the recognition. OK, we haven't used handshapes. If you had used handshapes information, you could possibly do better.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK. Here's an example of complex background and you'll see some person walking in the back. So here the hypothesis is and there's some hyper hand. Hypothesis is for the head, which is of course ignored. It marks it pretty well up to here. And here's a person that's. Walking at the back and you can see hand hypothesis cropping up. For him, for his moving patches. OK.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So. We don't have. I think we have just five minutes left. OK, so I'm going to just show you. And.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Another interesting stuff that we had done is just a short video on.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So basically, can you learn signs given sentences? So here are some sentences. And I tell you that here are some sentences, and there is a sign that's common in them. And can you, can you find it? The idea is that we can use this now to build automatically build models of that sign. You don't have to sit down and market the sentence. OK. Because sitting down and marking off the science takes a lot of time and you need experts to do that. So here's some sentences and see if you can find the one sign that is common. If you aren't out yet. So you can see the sentences are of different lengths. We don't tell the system what the sentence is about. And we don't constrain where the sign is in the sentence sentence. So there are a couple of more sentences here. The quality of the video is just for that we processed was a lot better than what you see here. OK, So what we call don't call them signs. We call them synonyms because they're really small pieces of the sign. It doesn't have the and these are the pieces that. Never extract and you can see the variation in all of them right there. Speed variation is location variation. The way it's done, this is different. For each instance in there. OK, so.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
This is another piece of work we don't have time to. To go into it, but let me show you another. Another example of this and then will end. So you have a bunch of these kind of things. OK, so. The model for security. So here's a two sentence. Is there are more sentence is like 10 of them also. And see this is 1 sentence that's quite long. This sentence that use fingers you see the sign for security or. You have to be careful and it's it's related to security units. We have a method where you can detect this small portions that are common in very long collection of sub sequences or sequences that works pretty well. Yep. Or lend out here.
