But suppose that both B is relevant to the Golgi. An OPI is relevant to the Golgi. Suppose that an suppose also that you have developed banks irrelevant to G, But the negative of that is not relevant. We are not going to get a solution, but listening on this one because using the conditional effect you have on the problem, you will not be able to get from this case to a solution. The only thing you can do is to reasonable this only relevant clause and meaning that both all of the literal inside then that should be relevant if one of them is not relevant. We want that we would like maybe 2 doing fancy inference on this formula and things like that but you need we need to be careful because we want the translation to be polynomial with those paid translation to haggle. That's the whole point. Basically, I'm going to set that attack satisfy a clause is son of a literal. And suppose that looking at the actions of the problems, you can see that XI is relevant to all the other access, both positive. Because what is the consequence of this the consequent of X1 XY one is all this whole thing. We are confirming problem, expressing some language we're going to translate that into a classical planning problem, and this we're going to use a box here. I mean directly for confirming plastic or confirming plans are also SQL functions, so that makes sense for continued their Nazi consumption. Well, we want to obtain is a merge that allows you to show that you can satisfy is one of the class. If you're able to pick just two classes and with those two classes satisfies all the relevant to a literal, then is of course going to be much cheaper than taking four classes. Is it is related with the number of clauses? Some is a plan, so in general we're going to have this syntax or classical planning. I have a set of conditional effects and this is a notation we're going to use for the conditional effects. This information is sound and complete. That's important because this means that we will capture all the solutions of the original problem without translation, and vice versa. Expressing is honest days of space and say space where we have a set of different states. Or when the precondition of an observation. Is this sub base and the good news? Basically what we're doing is to extend classical planning to the case of having complete information in principle and initial state or in the effects of the action we're going to focus on this tutorial and the case where you only have information to complete on the initial state. And while they issue here from the complexity point of view is that verifying at confirming plan is much harder than classical plan for very fantastic blend you basically get this state, apply the actions if you get to the goal. If you can apply all the actions against the goal, you are done, but for confirming you have a plan, you have the description of the problem and in principle you may have an exponential number of recent states that even encoding of the problem so verified just very fine. Her room is supposed to collect every site. There is a good rule in a green room. The robot can collect the the racing a cell and a confirming planning for cleaner will be just to collect. The Theresa May or not be in different places until you find that you get the the room clean. What exactly then they lose you have before. In this case, the robot can be in one of these four squares, and we want the robot to go to G. So this example is interesting because they show how confirming plans can be so different of classical ones issue this is you were sure that you are here, you just need to. Indeed, if we, if we in if when we move to Torah Wall we remain in the same place. I think they're going to be relevant, and indeed is you seen that classical planning is symbolic reachability. Yep, conformable is going to be rich ability, but not big. Have fluent, but it looked at in the case of Mr, you have a set of clauses and not only did about glasses are learning the difference in the actions duction, that's as described. But again, in the interface semantics there things are different, because here we had, we need to consider the set of possible states. Not only one is a stable sort of initial state, we have again instead of goals as sort of an action that lead that gives you a transition function. OK, so um, if planning is a product of finding a signal of actions for achieving a goal, then basically we're going to. We're going to do is to study too particular kind of planning problems. One is a conformant planning that differ from classical planning in the sense that we have incomplete information and initial state. Basically they they do that they represent the set of possible configuration and then you have mainly two issues. OK. Basically I'm going to introduce a basic translation that is going to be like like the starting point and I going to generalize that to a motor murderous scheme. So I'm going to see when they complete I going to characterize the complexities of translation, I'm going to define instance that also, depending on the characterization I'm going to study. Finally, where I went to map to map confirming plans into problems into classical ones that plants can be just obtained by using off the shelf classical planner and the translation. Notice that we have here the initial situation described in clauses. Second problem, we're going to work on today, so this is illustration of a classical planning problem. There now is not because he wasn't sure about that. But in this translation we got one who is a classical plan and we we lost one of the confirming plans. MBA is A is a classical plan for this and that's not bad because BA was indeed a confirming plan. Asian rules, so let's see what's happening when we have the cancellation rules. Yes, the seas. We are again this via is a classical plan, but what we don't want to is Avita vehicle, a classical plan of this problem. So here we have no OK no P not K not not there. We're going to use a set of tax those parameters. If the candy was in the room, but I'm because we know that the candy in the candy wasn't the whole or in. Meaning that is we can get all with a classical plan. One of the main issue is going to be the size of Revelation, because we expect that bigger classical plans will perform worse on classical planners. If we have a sequence of actions that is able to achieve a literal KL. That means that for any initial state that satisfy this tea, the same plan is going to be made to make all through that what's going on inside and want to have done that because at least one of these tax in the merger going to be true, then I'll be able to conclude that for that reason, we're getting song plans. Only going to have one merge, and so we're going what's going on here. Basically again, this action is going to keep track of what's going on for each one of US missile estate know for each one of the possible literal for each one of the possible states. And this is the system is entirely because this one is complete and this is the first one we have seen that is complete. But this is exponential in the number of Florence and this is not good because it essentially that we perform. Planner, but we would like to have more compact instances. So how can we do that? Went to a relevant like this. For example a is going to be relevant to itself, is going to be relevant to see because of this and then a or is also going to be relevant to D because a is relevant to. Not a is going to be generally relevant to not be, so basically what you are doing is just to look at the part when you can pass over incomplete information.