[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so let me also say a few words about myself as well. It's already mentioned my name is meant for tired. I'm also from other Austin Institute of Technology at the start of the project we were named Awesome Research, but it's just a name that is changed. So of field of activity has remained the same. I've been with AIT since 2002 and have been working in the field of. At the acoustic assessment of Rd pavements. This actually this was my starting topic and is it still the core of my activity. But in addition to that have been involved in several European projects. For example the Silence project, which was a very large integrated project and has already been mentioned today. Of course also suspends projects and I'm now.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Coordinating that I receive project which is a coordination action which tries to take home quite a lot of the topics, especially in scooter assistance harmonization that have already been mentioned today. In the scope of the Spence project, I have acted as the work package leader of Work Package 5, which deals with the environmental assessment of pavement types, which we especially focused on the environmental impact of pavement types that I used in the new Member States because that was of course the second focus of the whole project. And in the end we tried to arrive at recommendations that can also benefit the road authorities, especially new Member States, but one experience I have to say throughout the project was that quite the differences that we anticipated were not as large as there was. We thought at the start. So for example, building materials are quite similar. Also among among the people participating in the. Project also the knowledge about procedures was quite high. The difference was more in the practical applications of these procedures. So the process of learning here has not been a one way route, but I think it has been a two way Rd, especially in Indy.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Topic. Are in the first part.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
But I would like to introduce you in the work package 5, which has been the field of work where all other environmental assessment of pavements has taken place. The partners here were Arsenal or today AIT from Austria. We let this work package aside from Slovenia VDI from Sweden, CV from Czech Republic and the Technical University of Schillinger from Slovakia, and we had two work tasks. One of them environmental assessment of pavement in general, where we excluded basically the noise part to focus on, especially a particulate matter emission and the second task was the role of the road network as a generator of noise emissions. So we took this out because this is a is a very large topic.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Do you protective of task 5.1, was the care and also of the overall work package, was the characterization of pavements with regard to their environmental impact, and also to give hints or what can be done when changing the pavement when tuning the pavement to to say limits the environmental impact to agreeable numbers, to focus focus properties were really particular measurement noise generation because we failed in those two fields. A lot can be done from the pavement side to steer the emissions into the lower categories. To really do some engineering here.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Concerning noise emission. We also tried to characterize Rd pavements with regard to the traffic noise situation. This is of course not only determined by the pavement, but this is one of the fields where the pavement can make a large contribution which has already also been demonstrated in formal projects like Sylvia or Silence. So we were not here at the complete start, but we were taking over from previous project and putting also the new Members data aspect into it. Oh, the basic idea was to follow the Silver metallic methodology, meaning using pass by and trailer measurements for acoustic characterization. Yeah it is.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
I final deliverable. I was the D17 which is will be available online. The guidelines for Environmental assessment of various pavement types, including especially recommendations to Rd authorities.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Member states.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So for the first part I would like to present some results which were obtained using the VTi Rd simulator. So our colleagues from VTi led by Leonard Focus on who's the task leader of the first task were very helpful. They had this wonderful Rd simulator which made it possible to put relatively typical typical new Member State pavements. In it. We actually put patient samples in there. And tested them for particulate matter matter emission. So you have a.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Picture here this is a graph. You can. I know you cannot read it very much, but this is basically the road dust system. The basically this system determines how much of particular particulate matter is emitted, absorbed and remains in the air. So it's a relatively complex circle.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The our Scandinavian colleagues reported that also they Norway, Sweden and Finland have problems with the air quality standards used to their use of studded tires, and with winter sending. But this is of course also topic interest without studded tires. Usually the sources are the pavement attire and also the break and winter maintenance and its Rd dust, dust dust, really originating from the roads. It's an increasing share of the road traffic particles found suspended in. Because the the efforts at reducing exhaust from vehicles have been relatively successful. But now the focus is shifting towards the roads. These were the pavements under test this way.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
For one, by Red Pavement and one limestone pavement. So the basic difference was in the hardness, basically of the aggregate. So the direct represented the heart variety and limestone was rather the soft variety of.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Pavement aggregate and these were combined in the test with one summer tire and winter tire also usually with different rubber mixture. The results show.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
You will get on the direct payment on the harder pavement, it will get something like 55 PM. 10 emission with wind. You see here at different speeds and always you see a peak at the onset of speed. So this is a 3050 and 70 kilometers per.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Oh, the effect was much more pronounced with with the softer limestone pavement you even have. More total of 10 emission and also this effect at the onset was was much larger. So.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
One very interesting effect that was actually not expected in advance was found when the mass size distributions were analyzed. Usually we expected or the colleagues from VTi expected to find something like in the lower took off with the limestone basically peak somewhere very broad peak somewhere around 8 micrometres. Also for the diorite. But in the diorite we also we also found that. Speak low, one micrometer, which means very very fine particles, which is actually not a very good message because of very fine particles can penetrate deeply into the lungs and may pose more higher risks to health than the larger particles which do not penetrate so deep. So even if a limestone in general it generates more overall PM 10 emissions at the direct emissions. Especially in this fine fractions could.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Even be more health damaging. Oh, the colleagues also did a chemical analysis of the composition of the particles. I just want to highlight 2. Two basic basic properties. Just take a look at the yellow and and the. The pink part this is this is a relative contribution of sulfur, which is yellow part, which usually is is the source of. This is usually tire rubber, whereas the pink part this is a calcium contribution. If I alarge percentage of in the pink part, this is basically the contribution or an indicator for the contribution of the pavement. So you see that. Usually the pavement contributes in the larger particle size is much more whereas the final particles are the result of rubber aberration from the tires. At the conclusion.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Word that. Assume the levels were not similar compared to know the Nordic pavements that were known at VTi. But the software pavement has more has a higher overall emission whereas the winter tires and also the winter tires have a higher overall emission. But the fraction with below 1 millimeter is. Heated up by by the harder by the heart of pavement, which is in general more beneficial so.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
I got the other two points I already mentioned. So this this means that there is no clear cut recommendations from this, because if you want to reduce overall emission, the advice would be to use hard pavement, but it has still to be investigated if with this change you would not incur a fraction of fine of fine particulate matter which could be even more damaging. In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, there also have been a particular matter. Concentration measurements, especially in Rd tunnels which were in this case in C2 experiments, and we also.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Thought that into experiments are little bit more complicated. I will go through this quite quickly.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
There were different as we had stone mastic, asphalt and asphalt concrete.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So in here the asphalt concrete showed higher concentrations and there were also men.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Treatments in tunnels dust fall. This this showed even more the complexity of particular meta measurements, because here the highest influence was not anticipated, the. And the pavement itself, but this was a sloping tunnel and you had much higher emission in the up in the tube of the tunnel with the upward slope because there was actually. Yeah, so we had actually the traveling direction was here domain.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Influence. OK.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
I'll go with this sweet now. Switch to noise emission.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The goal of concerning noise emission was both the analysis of statistical data and also the direct measurement of acoustic parameters using two well established methods. The statistical passed by methods which are basically is basically placing a microphone at the roadside on the relatively controlled conditions and measuring the path by level and the CPX method, which means a placing microphones very close to a trailer and going along the whole stretch of the road. The whole section of the road. We had a shared workload here. The CPX measurements were all carried out by Arsenal now AIT and the SBP. Measurements which are stationary ones were all carried out by the local Institute which is first Slovenia suck for Slovakia to technical versity of Shelina for the Czech Republic.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
It was CDV. So I would just OK. We had at least three measuring sites for country, so I've already said that I would go over some of the slides now little more quickly.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
These were the measuring sides in the Czech Republic. This is here.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
You see a typical statistical test by measurement, so the difficulty is always finding a good location because you do not want to have any noise barrier's behind the machine position because they would distort.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
The signal this is a typical result, so it's statistically you need a large number of cars passing by, and then you do a regression.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
To arrive at your final values, so I will not go into distilled. These were close to Shelina this order.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Locations for the silvacane measurements.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
We also see here of course speed is. That is a very important influence, but on in general we saw very compareable. Our results in also to Western European countries. What we did not especially include here are very low noise pavements like a porous asphalt because one of one of the basic premises of the of the project was that we should not assume the influence of pavements which are not in wide use. Of which would mean a large deviation from ethical construction. So we considered SMAP and As for. Concrete surface is with different shipping sizes because even even in the U15 the use of process for this not as widespread, that you can say this is predominant. It's maybe only the case for a few countries like the Netherlands.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So here you all said so 8 millimeter.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Even with limited shipping sizes, this is a.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Further from Slovenia.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Also here. Something you also still hear the low medium height as the road speech category of course. Usually the main influence is the speed, so this is the first thing that you have to eliminate when you want to know about the influence of the road surface. You see here that usually Smas with low chipping sizes with small chipping sizes do have a quite good performance compared to asphalt concrete. But we also have seen the opposite with very large chipping.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Size estimates can even be louder than as typical asphalt concrete. This is a short image showing what to do with the CPX measurements. We did test actually with.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
3 tires in this case with a trailer here.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Not go into the details and as we did with the trailer we did the measurements at every position. So we had basically quite a long list of measure.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Insights. These other Slovenian ones.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
And the basic basic difference between the methods is that of this vertical vertical line basically represents what you would get it and SBP measurements, which is a point value within CPX. You would get information about the whole. The whole length of the section and this can be can vary quite considerably as you see here with changing pavements so.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
The CPX levels will not go into much more detail here. They wear.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Not unexpected, also the spectral analysis, which is from something like 100 Hertz 2 to 5000 kilohertz. No, no real, no real surprises.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Here we also found that with different tires and also with different methods at least the trends were similar. This is a big problem usually. Comparing CPX, SBP measurements from acoustics, acoustics, point of view. We would like to be them in perfect correlation. Actually, that's not what we find, especially also not if the different tests are performed but different institutes. Because this is usually adding. This is also one experience from this. This is also adding adding another layer, maybe layer of variation, but in general general trends can can be identified, but this is less than perfect so.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
So we would like to improve on that. This is also showing the ranking. For example, the ranking of the first 3. 1st three pavement. This is it identical and then you get some some ranking reversals with with different tires. So This is why you're taken average.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
So there are quite a lot. This is also very specific. I will.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Try to go to the general conclude.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Kiss because we are also running out of time concerning the air pollution, it is important to note that the contribution from pavement where can be significant and should not be ignored. Of course there is also a large fraction of from from exhaust particles and also from rubber operation, but pavement is increasing in importance here. We have seen that it's impossible that it is possible to adjust the pavement contribution after using other store material in constructions in general, the soft store material has the higher total emissions and it also reacts very strong to speed changes, so changing speed and direction on the soft payment will result in higher PM images. So where this is expected, it would be beneficial to go to harder stone material, but it still has to be investigated if this. Peak below 1 micro meter can be confirmed because if that's true you would have to be very careful because this would produce quite dangerous particles. Of course winter tires X is expected produce more particles and also we had also some comparisons with seven concrete. In general the asphalt pavements are less resistant to operations and have a higher production of particulate matter in general.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Concerning noise emission, every partner agreed that it was very beneficial to perform SPP and CPX measurements both before and after maintenance actions and replacement actions. In general, from from the more conventional group of pavements, to smacc pavements, or also Alpha concrete pavements, with low maximum chipping sizes, showed the best results, and one experience was also that are replacing the old payments almost always reduces the noise emission. Um? So recommendation, we also arrived. It is that is it is always a good thing to implement a noise classification system. Ideally it should contain a reference surface, conformity of production checks and monitoring. So in Sylvia in the server final reports you can find a proposal for that. Just rest of The thing is made.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Not so important, and it's also very important to note noise emission does not stay constant. It usually increases overtime, both with degradation of the of the pavement itself and also with the introduction of discontinuity's. So the acoustic viable working life of a pavement that is supposed to be low noise is usually shorter. This is why also maintenance and timely rehabilitation is important because they cracks they can compromise the noise emission. Concerning noise, there is no channel recommendation for asphalt or concrete surface is as least as we, as long as we stick to the more classical group of Rd surface. Is porous asphalt pavements, which have usually a shorter total working life. Of course have a very important noise reduction, especially at the start of the acoustic working life. But the degradation or can be quite quick alternatives are open grade asphalt surface types. At the low noise estimate types I already mentioned. And also on the on the concrete side exposed aggregate concrete Rd surface is. So we found problems with things like transversely brushed concrete. So from an acoustic's point of view this is actually terrible and this was also but these still exist or we also have some in Australia still it's still being replaced but the percentage may be higher in some of the new Member States. So yeah this these were the bad guys. As you could say, and if you're doing a replacement rehabilitation from an acoustic POV, try to get rid of them because there are alternatives, both for cement, concrete and asphalt available. So in the end I would like to thank all the participating institutes, all the collaborators which have helped us, which also helped helped us show these results which are based on an extent, extensive measurement campaign, and it was a very nice experience working with people in Spence. I would also like our coordinator for the support she's been given us and also the Commission of course of funding the project with these two interesting aspects of Rd infrastructure and. New Member State focus thank you.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
So like the other presenters, I'm open to your questions. If there are any, yes? General question. For these measurements, test studies studies really published so. The results from work package five former quite quite extensive annex of the deliverable itself. So as soon as the deliverable is on the website, you also have access to the results and you of course still free to contact individual people who perform. So we will also of course give the names, but basically with the when they are put on the public part of the website. This is basically a publication and you will find the results in the annex. Maybe for deliverables. There all the researches public because it was financed by the European Union and every result public. But they will not be printed. It will be in the form of a PDF file on the space website in September in the splitting of standard available for downloading and creating. But they will not be great. OK, any other questions? Steve you talked about the increases operational particulas onside squares changes speed. Right now. Actually it. We concluded this sensitivity to changes in speed actually to the test set up here because we had more or less, I didn't show the. The prescribed speed steps. But we had very sharp steps from 30 to 50 to 70 kilometers per hour simulated in the road simulator. And as you saw in the slides, every time you had this, this step change in speed, you had an even overshooting peak. Not not the following peak but then overshooting peak of the particulate matter emission, especially for the for the soft limestone. Which means acceleration deceleration could lead to particulate matter emission, which means for example, around crossroads. Also, maybe in roundabouts, where we have a constant change of direction. So in these places it may be important to go off for harder pavement San for electric vehicles, so there can be a lot of effects, but if step changes, for example with gear changing or. Maybe maybe a better transmission of the force to the road can be achieved. This would also, of course, little effect on reducing the particulate matter mission, especially in some cases it may not be possible, for example to simply exchanged aggregates. We are of course aware that you have to transport some very hard aggregates, maybe for a long distance, which increases cost. Except it doesn't answer your question. OK. Presentation we can conclude that street bumps are very noisy because there are three cars are breaking and also we get more particles because of the three months. So there are healthy from this environment point actually, yes. Of course, the degree where is so you it depends actually in in silence. We've done quite a lot of research about the real effect, so you can get anything from about one DP which you do not really here to. Really something like 5 to 70 be really depending on the type of bump or discontinuity you have. But if you can rehabilitate, usually you get you get somebody just from making it smooth. It doesn't matter which paper it is, but just removing the bumps, removing the cracks, it helps. Older. When and how? It's a good question maybe. Maybe I'm not the one who can. Who can really answer it. Because what we what we are providing our results of research, which means basically the most we can do is give recommendations and disseminate those recommendations to the people who then make the decision really to implement this where everybody who is who was in this work package. Also we are involved, for example in standardization issues. So standardization gives you a very good hint what the technical standard is, what can be done. Forms the basis for harmonization, and quite a lot of activities in the European level are then refering back to standardized methods to also to methods that become known as a result of research. But of course, our responsibility and also our possibilities go only that far, so from some at some step administration takes over and also politics takes over, so. That's a little bit beyond my own scope. Any other questions? So if there are no further questions, I would like to thank you for your attention on behalf of the Spanish project and there will be further presentations after the break. So please come back. Please also listen to our colleagues, they're very interesting results for you and if you're into further interest in the topics of this session, please contact us. Contact leutze. Have a look on our website. You're welcome every time. Thank you.
