A vertex coloring or bottom on your torch in Slovenian. Is simply a function which Maps from the vertex sets to the set of colors. That's easy. If there exists a proper vertex coloring with K colors. A maximal clique would be. A click that is not contained in any. We should distinguish this notion from a notion of the largest click, largest click. Is the click with the largest number of vertices among all clicks. Why did I define a clique? Oh, nice result here. More obvious result since the chromatic number of the complete graph is N. And since a click is in fact sub graph which is sort of isomorphic complete graph, it follows that the chromatic number of any graph is at least. Chromatic number chromatic number is always larger or equal to the size of the largest clique, So what would be? Trivial, unless the graph is a complete graph or a cycle of odd length. Oh, and as I said, we already know that. The first part of the inequality holds. Let's order the vertices of the graph in some order linear order. Oh suppose that we've already colored some vertices. Choose the smallest here that it does not appear among its neighbors yet, so the smallest possible that step and color it with that color. And then repeat this procedure until all the vertices. So the chromatic number of the cube is 2 and the chromatic number of the Petersen graph is 3. Now in the rest of the proof, we may assume that the graph is not a complete graph or a cycle of odd length. And we have to show that in this case the coloring you know the Delta plus one coloring can be. Um? One of the non green colors does not appear among its neighbors, so let's take a green vertex. We have four colors here, blue, red, yellow and green, and we have a green vertex such that one of the non green colors does not appear among its neighbors, namely, the yellow does not appear among its neighbors. Now let's think of the coloring that we get after killing all unessential greens. There will be at least one color among among colors from one to Delta, which is not used. And also know two neighbors of VR of the same color. The second procedure allows us to push the green color. And we have a path here. Let's let's call the first vertex on this this path. So we change the color of you into blue and the color of all green neighbors of you into. Well, whatever was the color color pattern along these P. This pattern will be shifted. Now let's choose a vertex X. And then for each green vertex. Oh, say V, let's choose the shortest path from V to that X and let's push the green color from V to this particular X. Now, if the valence, So what do we get in the end? Remember, I mean whenever we have a green vertex which is not of maximal violence, we can kill its green color. 'cause then we killed all the green colors. And this is actually. If G contains a cycle of length, then the chromatic number is at least three. Since we assume that the graph is not complete, there must be 2 vertices in this graph which are not adjacent. Uh. So since one of the colors does not appear since the green color does not appear in the neighborhood of Y an since Y is not green, there's only Delta minus one colors available. And let's assume that this is the shortest path from X to Y. An let's push the green color that used to be at X to Y along this path. We can kill the green color. Right 'cause the only vertex of green color was why? Color classes as bipartition sets. At most you cannot have cycles of odd length. Well, it's a little bit surprising. Perhaps that the converse holds as well. If the distance from V to you is even, and let's color it dreads if the distance. Now, if this is not a proper coloring, maybe I should? Do to complete this proof is show that if we have a closed walk of length then we also have a closed cycle cycle of odd length because you know these two paths may intersect, like here. Now if we put all these results together, we get the following well known characterization of bipartite graphs. If G is a graph, then the following statements are equivalent. Oh, geez, Bieber type it's chromatic number is at most two. Then we call the set of vertices a click if the induced sub graph on this set of vertices is complete, so a click is a set of vertices where any two vertices are adjacent. Any set of adjacent vertices is a clique.