It's actually part of a linkage project they have between that Bob and I have between the NU and Canon information system so. We have something more than just cats, dogs, humans, right? Right, so it seems like the key problem here is language and George Boole famously said that the language is an instrument of human reason and not just the way of explosions thought. So I went back to some sort of classic textbooks to see what has happened so far in machine learning, and if you go back to Tom Mitchell's book, he gives a very broad definition of what it means to learn. So you have experience easom class of task, TA performance measure, and if you improve your performance measure as you see more and more tasks that's learning this is not quite what we want, right? I thought this is fantastic, but it was actually a taxonomy of research rather than problems, so he they had broad headings like the the underlying learning strategies of a particular line of research and. 189 entries and they talk about data types, default tasks, attribute types, number of instances, number of attributes, and these are kind of the key. Real and then they have this very confusing term called data type. It about whether it's a. I guess a data generating program, whether it's a domain theory image, multivariate rational, relational, sequential etc etc etc. This is a free website for objectively comparing. Is it a domain is a class of problems, has a particular data set format a particular program interface, and a standard evaluation metrics. Supervised learning, performing domains and interactive domains. This machine probably recommend anything, but were not systematic. We obviously have a bias because we are a limited number of researchers and we looked at what we found interesting. 1st and we're not trying to push a single vocabulary that everyone adopts, right? They say even though I'm interested in problems here, they they note that relations between the elements are at least as important as the elements themselves, which is some. You can have a model type. Models can be graphical sparse. You have classes, probability structures, ranks and so on. So basically it's a zoo right? And the feedback you give to the learner via training signal is also. Do you get partial feedback etc etc. Paper on online semi supervised kernel probability estimation under log loss right? How can we organize a zoo? To conclude, kinda how do we describe what it is we're relating? We want to know what are the nodes in the graph. There's a really big leap, no pun intended, between folk taxonomy and scientific taxonomy.