Marie Curie initial training network. Studying the properties of gene and protein sequences of whole genome sequences of protein structures or of chemical compounds. Very common topic in what I call a classic bound for mattix is to predict the function of a gene given its sequence. Or you are given a genome segment and you want to predict the exact boundaries of a gene given this genome sequence or within this genome segment. And another classic topic which has been studied in chemoinformatics for decades, is to predict the function of a chemical compound given its molecular structure. So fundamental idea is that similarity in structure implies similarity in function. Quantify the structural similarity between these molecules and also to measure how similar the node, and if given the edge labels are between these graphs, so it's both topological similarity and attribute similarity that we care about. Perform graph isomorphism checking in subgraph isomorphism checking. If you transform a graph into a vector then you either lose some of this actually information represented by the graph, or you again suffer from exponential runtime effort. And the fourth family, which I'm going to talk about. Two of the Seminole Papers were the ones by Kashima ET al and Gardner ET al, and this graph counts. I connect three goals in which we want to contribute to the family of graph comparison methods. I'll talk about this in more detail in the following. So what this field of kernel machine learning does is that it moves the whole problem to to a feature space, so it Maps the points from the original space to feature space in which the two classes become linearly separable. So the kernel between objects in the original space corresponds to an inner product between the same objects in the feature space, which means we can solve. I mean kernels on pairs of graphs, so I give I'm given two graphs. Have made the whole family of kernel methods applicable to graphs, and that's something special because this kernel is family of kernel methods includes methods for classification, regression, clustering to sample testing, principle, component analysis and many more. To a feature space and then compute some inner product between these feature vector representation of the graphs. Belgium, France, Germany, Spain, United Kingdom and the United States. I only knew the result of the paper. And now how can you do this in an efficient way? S knew note attributes in our graphs. Now here's a different way of representing network as a map. So the company Formatics from Edinburgh. It is to be precise, the MPI for intelligent systems into being that is involved the MPI for psychiatry in Munich and also in Munich. That we represent each node as a sorted list of its neighbors. This can also be done in a runtime which is linear in the number of edges. So if you want to compute this for whole collection of capital N graphs, we can easily compute the kernel pair pair capital N ^2 * M * H would be the runtime. So here global scale is linear in the number of graphs N in the number of iterations H. In the graph density, which is the number of edges per node and quadratically in the number of nodes N depending on the number of edges. In the beginning, microarrays allow you to measure the all gene expression levels in a given sample. It allows you to determine the genome sequence of an individual or or also recently via RNA sequencing to generate a transcriptomic profile of an individual. So in summary, it is as it is stated on this slide here. 2011 there was even an article in PLOS Computational Biology saying that most random gene expression signatures are significantly associated with breast cancer outcome. You're kinda puzzle is not here from the United Kingdom University of Sheffield. Examples of success in which phenotype prediction worked really well, and one of these I noticed when after moving to tubing only a few months after I arrived in Tubingen, I read in current biology about a genetic test that predicts eye color in Dutch men with 90% accuracy and I wasn't a statistical geneticist at the time. Correlate most with variation in the phenotype. These markets, and it's very important to know, are usually single nucleotide polymorphism's, the so called snips. So this term should be known to everyone, so may also be called genetic locus or genomic variant. Then 1200 new disease loci were detected over the last decade. This is from Eric Lenders 10 year anniversary paper for the sequencing of the human genome. Is disappointingly low. For example, Crohn's disease and lipid levels. Explained heritability is in this context the phenotypic variance explained by known variants over the variance explained by all variants. There are many other potential reasons for missing heritability, and this is heavily debated. In statistical genetics about the potential reasons for missing heritability. First of all, one point is most current analysis neglect the additive or multiplicative effects between loci. Off single snips of single loci is maybe smaller than one first had hoped for, or had speculated. The other point, which is a very broad one or the other potential reason for missing heritability, is that they feel that we may underestimate the phenotypic effect of other genetic, epigenetic or non genetic factors. So there may be genetic properties that we've ignored, ignored so far. You could summarize them by saying machine learning can support genetics to move to a systems biology perspective. First of all, by developing efficient to compute multilocus models by developing algorithms that allow to discover trade related systems of genetic loci. Which contributes to phenotypic variation, and it's conjectured to be one source of missing heritability that we. There are large scale studies in model organisms, for instance by Boone ET al, which showed it a lot of genetic interactions. For instance, here, the loss of either BRCA one or BAC A2 tumor suppressor function in cells triggers a cell cycle arrest at G2 M checkpoint that can be suppressed by the inactivation. Hippel Lindau tumor suppressor function normally causes cellular center St. In short, what we are suffering from in epistasis detection is that it is an enormous computational runtime problem, and of course hand in hand with this computational runtime problem goes also an enormous multiple hypothesis testing problem, because in the most extreme case, we're testing 10 to 14 hypothesis and we have to make sure that we don't get order 10 to the 12 false positives by ignoring the multiple hypothesis testing problem. If you use standard hardware or can be extended to a genome wide scale by using special hardware such as cloud computing or GPU implementations, and there's actually a field in which bathroom and I've worked over the last few years together, and I think also crystal worked in this domain of epistasis detection. The second family are so called filtering approaches where you try to narrow down the search space to reduce the computational effort. So you use biological networks to narrow down the search space. Use this principle from optimization theory branch and bound to avoid to compute the statistics for parts of the search space of snip. Called a plaster, so it is the difference in correlation between 2 steps between cases and controls between in in the group of individuals that suffer from the disease and the group of individuals that doesn't suffer from the disease. The biological interpretation is that we have a different degree of linkage disequilibrium, so a different degree of correlation between the two loci in these two phenotypic classes. We checked the literature in theoretical computer science and found one related piece of work by Pertouli ET al from called 1989. Tackle the so-called maximum correlation problem or. What is the light by problem? You could also say you want to find the pair of light bulbs with the minimum Hamming distance. We are given a binary matrix A with M rows and N columns, Mr. Case in our application, M is the number of patients. So K timepoints or K patients if you want. This probability of being in the same state, which is which is the opposite of the of the Hamming distance. So what else you wanted to see? First of all, we were interested in this difference in correlation between cases and controls. We wanted to compute Pearson's correlation coefficient. Want to maximize difference in correlation? Original datamatrix is the concatenation of the matrices. The proof is in the paper that the maximally correlated pair. That we are given vectors in an M dimensional space. Then each step can be represented as an M dimensional vector and now we want to binarize these vectors. And in order to do so, we draw a random vector from an M dimensional Gaussian distribution. If this inner product is positive or zero, then we map the vector to one. Which is represented as an M dimensional vector in a single bit. So we we transform the original snip vector into a sequence of bits which are determined by different random vectors are. If there are different sides of the hyperbole, if they point to different sides of the hyperplane, they will be hashed to different bit values, and the probability that the hyperplane will separate the two vectors from each other of course depends on the angle between the two vectors. As part of this network, the first one being biomarker discovery, the second one being data integration, the third one being causal mechanisms of disease. We all know it as the covariance between 2 random variables divided by their standard deviations. After centering the two vectors XI and XJ. We binarize the original matrices which we call a zero and B0 in this pseudocode into A&B by locality sensitive hashing. We run it on the second extended matrix that I described. Epistasis detection on a single computer rather than using our cluster here, our cluster with 1000 cores. So the access is we have to recall among the top 1000 snippers as computed by an exhaustive enumeration and the exponent of the runtime to the base N, and you can see here that for an exponent of around 1.5 we reach. Deficiency of graphical processing units to perform basic mathematical operations in parallel. Still, what we're doing here is an exhaustive enumeration, and the speedup that we achieved using these GPU implementations is similar to the one that we achieved using the lightbulb algorithm and in a. In order to do some sleep interaction detection on diseases such as autism, schizophrenia, or depression. In this field of developing multilocus models for genetics. Prior knowledge, including prior knowledge on the relevance of snips into our models, we have one support vector machine approach from 2011 which can. Deal with prior knowledge about Snips. The space of potential solutions become so large that it is very hard to correctly quantify statistical significance and to also correctly account for multiple hypothesis testing. Bioinformatics is moving more and more towards this direction of exploring the opportunities for personalized medicine. To show you some data mining problems that arise in this context such that you have an idea of which data mining problems we are facing on the path to personalized medicine. This need has been created by the high throughput technologies that have been developed over the last decades, including genome and RNA sequencing, compound screening, genotyping, chips, bioimaging only to name a few. Molecular databases are growing at a much faster pace than our knowledge of biological processes, so we are more collecting more data than could ever be analyzed by manual annotation.