OK, so I want to tell you a little bit about something we've been doing recently on geometric computing over uncertain data. The reason about basic geometric primitives like points, lines, polygons, hyperplanes, circles and so on, and computational geometry has been quite effective at giving us geometric abstractions. People have been thinking about this kind of problems, which says that suppose I take N random points uniformly drawn from a unit box in say two or three dimension space. Recently, there's also been quite a bit of work in computational geometry about imprecise points, and there are many reasons for that. Some of them is numerical issues. So you have a master set of points in D dimension space, so but master set means that this is all the points and you know all the locations, but they may not all be active. So every site SI is active with some probability P. All these probabilities are independent and the basic question I would like to ask is that simply compute the expected minimum spanning tree length of this set. So an outcome A will appear color with some probability. Times the length of the MST and unfortunately the sample space as well. So that sort of seems a little bit, you know, from the onset seem like a bit of stupid problem to ask the time I want to send something over exponentially many terms. Look at an edge or look at a pair of points AB for instance and ask what is the probability that a B contributes to the convex Hull. Botics and there are wonderful algorithms and data structures that let you do a lot of these things, but. I just want to remind everybody what the problem was, so we have a master set of points endpoint to dimension space. Every point is active with some probability plus the length of the spanning tree. What is known is the MST is a subset of the Dilone graph. You have for every edge of failure probability, so it's a general network and you want to compute the probability that S&T are connected. Even if the graph is St planar. OK, so I'm going to do a reduction from this problem. After St Planar graph an, I'm going to construct this stochastic set of points in two dimension plane. So idea would be you take a graph like that for and so on the left an step one would be to build a car. It can be drawn on a grid so well known. So on a grid, every edge of the graph will now map to a path along the grid, and let's call that path in auxiliary at virtual edge for instance. Add all the interpoint distances are really grouped in three groups small, which are all the edges along the grid. Or long, because this is a 2 dimensional grid, here any non neighboring guys have to be at least length Route 2 or more and only one extra edge in the middle, which I'm called medium, is this one this mysterious number? To something else but keeping in the same range between one and Route 2, I change it to 1.2. For the stochastic points at my expected MSD twice, one with that asset T had set to 1.1 and once you set it to 1.2 and now let's look at the difference of these two MSDS. Only change. The change in the length of S at T hat times the probability with which it appeared. I take a jet sample by picking each point SI with this probability API, so I get a sample I run. Of course you would like it to be a good estimator of your expected MST. I'm going to compute as follows, so order the points as in any order, so but less for visualization. So for instance, I ally is something that to the right of the line is expected length of that and Ally Prime is conditioned on the fact that the Earth point itself exists. So now I want to get a recursive formula for. So what I want to talk about is what happens to the complexity of these questions when you have imperfect knowledge and so basic question is, what can we compute when the underlying data is uncertain and let me say a little bit about where this kind of uncertainty can come from. Many times as the location is just fuzzed up a little bit, I think sort of random noise to that. For instance, they flew all the medical diagnostics are still somewhat less than certain, so I have some level of confidence. You can see lots of settings where we would like to really think about geometric structures, but with imperfect knowledge. How let now Ally J Prime with expected MSD length from I to just J. But in this order right now I need one more. So only thing I need to worry about is that how do I compute the expected MST length from I to J when both I&J are present? Hard and it's very easy to see that this actually has a connection to Steiner tree problem. Is going to be less than your target L if and only if there's a Steiner tree of length less than, equal to, well, so that's the only way to get below Al is to use one of those points, right? They also deterministic way to compute the minimum spanning tree length roughly is the following. But the relative neighborhood graph can be end times bigger than MST. Suppose I give you stochastic point sets of two colors. I want to know what is the probability that the closest pair of red blue point. So here's the problem that seems easy to reduce in the graph setting, so a graph version of the problem says the following. That probability that the closest pair distance in a set of points is less than some number. Even the Bichromatic version is hard, but the following instances easy solve, that's why I do this that if you have the red and blue points are linearly separable. Then you have a nice dynamic programming algorithm to compute that. News, so here's a problem that we have been thinking about that traveling salesman through tours through uncertain regions. So let's has a setting I want to plan a shortest tool visiting geometric neighborhoods in the plane. Neighborhoods are uncertain, and I'll tell you in a minute what that means. With the USC Robotics Group, which they are collecting data from Southern California blight in the Pacific Ocean, which has a subtle almost a dozen buoy mounted sensors in the ocean and they are collecting all sorts of readings from the temperature and the LG and all that. What can you reason about sort of the geometric structure about this data points? OK, so this is I want to compute the shortest tool to visit all of these sensor neighborhoods. Is that you only discover by by trying at that range. And for every instance I you have an optimal tool. So let East of El Star be the expected value of all the tools over all the instances. A high level clue about you know that this tool is not too bad from the optimal expectation, and now if you can somehow adapt without changing it too much. So we've been thinking about the effects of uncertainty on the complexity of geometric problems, and it was somewhat surprising to me that some basic questions like you know, trying to understand the closest pair behavior or putting the probability bounds on the closest pair is so hard. It's a relatively robust meaning that almost all MSDS for for you know for the stochastic set are going to include major part of that. What is the expected length of the MST or the traveling salesman when you have this kind of stochastic input given to you? About this kind of activity level happening where you know with some probability you know the lighter points may not be alive and so forth. That is a big buzzword these days, so we live in this age of inexpensive, ubiquitous sensing and there are all sorts of scanners. So obviously you know database data mining, machine learning, computer vision, sensor networks and so on.