[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so I want to tell you a little bit about something we've been doing recently on geometric computing over uncertain data. Ha. So in many settings we.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The reason about basic geometric primitives like points, lines, polygons, hyperplanes, circles and so on, and computational geometry has been quite effective at giving us geometric abstractions. A language, combinatorial algorithms and data structures to do this, and here are some nice examples. I mean, we often do nearest neighbor searching.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Intersections of compute shortest paths, and there are these beautiful geometric structures like Voronoi diagrams, dilloni triangulations that triangulations, and so on, and you must have often seen them as being used in lots of applications. Of course, in sensor networks, so you build networks and you think of sensors as points in some two or three dimensional space. Or in bioinformatics you think about the protein as just a collection of points being representing atoms and so on. Spatial databases vision. Botics and there are wonderful algorithms and data structures that let you do a lot of these things, but.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
One downside has typically been that you assume precise noiseless input to compute these things, and we generally have not bothered that much when either the precision or the noise about the data is taken into account.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So what I want to talk about is what happens to the complexity of these questions when you have imperfect knowledge and so basic question is, what can we compute when the underlying data is uncertain and let me say a little bit about where this kind of uncertainty can come from. Any sources, so the most basic one is positional uncertainty. So anytime you use sensors to locate something, they're sensing errors. Many cases these errors can be intentional, for instance for privacy reasons. Many times as the location is just fuzzed up a little bit, I think sort of random noise to that. So location services often will do that, and other times you just have incomplete information. I mean, for instance, if I have a collection of sensors that have some random sleep awake cycle while at anytime. I know that there's only some probability that sensor is active or I have, for instance, I want to monitor some population being subject to some infection. For instance, they flew all the medical diagnostics are still somewhat less than certain, so I have some level of confidence. That you may have a flu, or you may not. And finally, there's a stochastic modeling. I want to understand, you know, I want to open a facility. I have lots of potential customers, but they're only potential, and I may have models about how likely somebody individually is going to be a customer. So you know some sensors to tracking through sort of fuzzy for a diagram, type settings to facility location. You can see lots of settings where we would like to really think about geometric structures, but with imperfect knowledge. And I should warn you from first from early on that this is very preliminary work. I have only some simple results and more questions than answer, and some of this is based on some papers in computational geometry last year and words. So even to start talking about.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Uncertainty there's already some issue about how to model it in the most general way that applies broadly, but still remains tractable. And I'll mention a few models to you, but for the most part I'm going to work on extremely simple model because it's tractable, but it still seems general an I'll call it uncertain point model, so here's a model.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
You have a collection of points in some D dimensional space, so positions are known precisely, so I think of this activation model so I know where users live. I don't know about their behavior, for instance. So for every point I have an independent probability P that the point actually is active. So I can imagine, for instance, that this could be a sensor, but there is awake or not has some probability or whether the user is going to be a client or whether it's the flu. So just just to make it a little bit more visual, I draw this as a colored set of points where you think about the darker points are more likely in the lighter ones are less likely. So now you have this. In some sense, fuzzy geometric points that I want to ask. What can you reason about sort of the geometric structure about this data points? And here are some basic questions I would like to answer. Imagine these are some service points where I would now order some sensors which may be producing.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Data and I would like to send a robot to go collect data. Or you can think about some places where a client needs to visit. What is the expected length of the MST or the traveling salesman when you have this kind of stochastic input given to you? About this kind of activity level happening where you know with some probability you know the lighter points may not be alive and so forth. What is the sort of region of activity and one way to formulate that would be, well, what's the convex Hull of this? And I could think about it, sort of only in a metric sense, how big it is appliances or what is the expected closest pair distance in this set. And there are many many questions like that, so that's the kind of you know the type of question I want to ask. Alright, so these are obviously in many ways.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The mental questions, but they also are motivated by, you know, lots of big data analytics. That is a big buzzword these days, so we live in this age of inexpensive, ubiquitous sensing and there are all sorts of scanners. 3D scanners lead our medical satellite, biological data and social graphs, which are collecting enormous amount of data which are giving us in some sense tools to be able to model complex behavior and the complex structures, but invariably becausw. The sensing is kind of a cheap and inexpensive and in some sense. Not carefully monitored, there tends to be a lot of data, is ambiguous, incomplete, noisy, and so forth, so you often end up asking questions of this type. You know what's the closest pair, for instance, and what does structure of MST look like? And unsurprisingly, there are many areas of computer science that are.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Looking at questions like that. So obviously you know database data mining, machine learning, computer vision, sensor networks and so on. And so here is a my theoretical take on this kind of problems by trying to ask how do you design uncertainty aware geometric algorithms so in some sense I would like my algorithm to gracefully deal with uncertainty. The data is quite precise, my algorithm should run fast and producing a good answers and otherwise I have. Obviously you know sort of less certainty and I have to deal with that in some ether running time on the precision. So I'm going to very briefly talk a little bit about sort of related.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And there's a lot of stuff. If you see if you just Google stochastic geometry for instance or or probabilistic geometry, you see a lot of things. And focus is quite good.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Different so, but still I want to give some context so stochastic geometry is almost 100 years old. People have been thinking about this kind of problems, which says that suppose I take N random points uniformly drawn from a unit box in say two or three dimension space. What is some structure? For instance, you know what's expected, length of the traveling Salesman Tour. So these are these classical beer birdhouse. Would Hamersly theorems and fries and steel serum from 60s and 70s and earlier and idea here is that talk about the limit. So it has going to Infinity. What is the length of the traveling salesman tool for this kind of drawn set of points? So my focus is much more on sort of computational complexity. I'm going to give you a worst case set of points set with potentially worst case error probabilities, so it's much more of a theoretical computer science and computational complexity.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Recently, there's also been quite a bit of work in computational geometry about imprecise points, and there are many reasons for that. Some of them is numerical issues. Summer again, something similar to what I said that I don't precisely know the location, but maybe I'm model that the location is within some region and the regions can be different for different point sets an, but at least in this work the thought had been that you want to understand the extreme behavior of the geometric thing that you try to compute. So for instance, you think about. Five points for every point I'm given a region where the point may actually be, and now you want to know how bad my answers could have been. For instance, you want to know the diameter of the point set. So what is the maximum possible value of the diameter? What is the minimum possible value of the diameter? So those kind of extreme questions so, but it's not taking into the probabilistic behavior something. Optimization there.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
In a lot of work on something called two stage optimization, so there's a famous, I guess some of this goes back to errors. Random race. I don't know if you know this idea that so there's a race which happens in two stages and airdash is going to flip a coin to decide how many laps you run in the first phase. And after you finish the first phase, one more coin toss will happen to determine additional laps you run. So if you are a runner, you have to now decide how much energy to burn. Running the first phase after you see the coin toss because you still know. Is uncertainty in the future and it's been an inspiration to try to do this kind of modeling that suppose I want to design in network. So today I have less. By the time the network would be diploid and ready and use as many years out. So I know little bit less about the actual demand, but the prices are cheap today so I couldn't build a network today, but I'm more uncertain about the demand. Or I could wait X years and build it then, which I know more. But then the things are more expensive. So ideas? How do you hybrid the two that build part of the network now in part later under some probabilistic assumption about the future? And there's also apriori optimization related stuff as well.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
There's a lot of work in her databases about something called alternate worlds with ideas that you have many possibilities for each outcome, and your probability distribution of them. So here's a toy example that you are in the job market you've interviewed at several company, so there are five companies every company you may be used in multiple positions, and every job has maybe some trade offs, so some may have higher salary but less security, or the vice versa. You would of course like a job with the highest possible security and the highest possible salary. But there are probabilities over how well you interviewed went and how likely you will get credit offer. So you may want to ask questions like what are the top K? For instance, was the skyline as high school or the purato optimal set? But it's a probabilistic set because you in some, so you want to still want to know clearly a position a that completely puts dominant position. BA is better, but then you still have, uh, some probability, with which it may not happen. So how do you probabilistically compute this? And there are lots of related questions about the ranking top K when you have probabilities, so you know overall there's an enormous amount of work going on in stochastic input, and so with that, let me get back to my setting, which is sort of in this general framework. But maybe the kind.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Question we tried to ask a little different. So I'm going to focus quite a bit on a one elementary object called minimum spanning tree for the stochastic set, and here is the let's try to formalize this problem.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So you have a master set of points in D dimension space, so but master set means that this is all the points and you know all the locations, but they may not all be active. So every site SI is active with some probability P. All these probabilities are independent and the basic question I would like to ask is that simply compute the expected minimum spanning tree length of this set. OK, so equivalently so here are an example with some seven or so 8 seven points. Each one has a probability and you know, for instance, that in some random draw the red ones are alive, the other ones are not. And the question really is that if you take a random draw from this set, what is the length of the MSD or expectation for that? OK. So let's make it a little bit more. Dig into that. So again, I have this stochastic point set so this random variable so.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Outcome Outcome is a subset of points, right? So an outcome A will appear color with some probability. Let's call it probability of a. That means every point in a is present an none of the remaining points are present, so that's the probability of a appearing and then a has a spanning minimum spanning tree. Obviously, and I want to compute the expectation of that window spanning tree, which is some over all the subsets, the probability with which the subset appears. Times the length of the MST and unfortunately the sample space as well. Two today, because my probabilities are independent, there are exponentially many outcomes.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So that sort of seems a little bit, you know, from the onset seem like a bit of stupid problem to ask the time I want to send something over exponentially many terms. So does it make sense to even worry about the computational complexity here? So the first realization that.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
In general not, but the geometry actually can be tremendously helpful, so let me give you a few examples where you have the same phenomena you summing over exponentially many sets, But you can do it quite nicely. So let's take a simple example, same setting. I have a stochastic set of points, but I want to compute the expected convex Hull and you can measure the convex Hull in multiple ways, probably by area. Probably buys perimeter the boundary. For instance, my argument will work for all of them, but let me for this. Ease of presentation. Talk about just the perimeter, right? So I have a set of points. Each appears with some probability and I want to know what would be the boundary length of this convex Hull in expectation. So I said you can do the same thing as before. Well for all possible to the end subsets, you have some unique property parameter for each one of them, some of them up. But here is another way to compute this. Look at an edge or look at a pair of points AB for instance and ask what is the probability that a B contributes to the convex Hull. OK, well, a week will contribute to the convex Hull precisely when both first of all A&B must be present, so they're alive, and because they are on the boundary on one side, there should be no other point. Take that, that's what the convex Hull means, right? Well, but that's the easy computation to do for any pair a BI can compute the probability with which they are alive, and on one side. And of course by fixing an orientation, I can make that site to be always left. For instance, it no point exists, so I have N choose two line segments in linear time per line segment. I can compute the probability with which there appears, and by linearity of expectation. Then I can sum them up and I haven't, you know, Ncube time without doing any optimization the expected convex. Perimeter and slightly different reasoning will also give you the area as well. One more.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Example expectation for proximity graph.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Let's think about what is the expected length of the Delaunay triangulation of a set of points, right? So Delaunay triangulation is this very nice structure that you have a set of points in the plane and it triangulation of that is Dilone. If for every triangle you look at the circum circle of that triangle, it doesn't contain any other site in it. So for instance, this example shows that Delaunay triangulation and this again gets used a lot. So you might have often seen that in sensor network routing or greedy routing people may start out with you, assume some Dilone property 1st, and then thing down there. So suppose I want to know what is the expected length of the Dilone graph of a set of points. So similar reasoning works. Pick a AAA B&C, then choose three such triples. Well, what is the probability that this will form a Delaunay triangle, while precisely when ABC and alive an nobody inside the circle phone by ABC's Alive again, I can do that and then sum it up over the expectations. OK, so you can sort of see that for many, many. So geometric structures you can compute the expected value in polynomial time without significantly changing the complexity, even when you go to the stochastic input. But now let's get back.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Without minimum spanning tree, so turns out.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
I just want to remind everybody what the problem was, so we have a master set of points endpoint to dimension space. Every point is active with some probability plus the length of the spanning tree. Turn South's entire family of proximity graphs. On the one hand, so there's MST, and one hand is the baloney graph. What is known is the MST is a subset of the Dilone graph. And on the other hand, is a very basic nearest neighbor graph called join everybody to his closest point in the set. That's the nearest neighbor graph. So what is known is that nearest neighbor graph is contained in the MST, which is then contained in the relative neighborhood graph which is contained in the Gabriel graph and the deloney graph and turns out that all of these graph nearest neighbor graph relative Gabriel Anthony can also be computed by the similar kind of reasoning allergist gap and it's.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Unfortunately, MST is not so obvious how to do that and, but unfortunately also not clear that even though MST sandwiched between these graphs, none of those graphs are good approximation. Nearest neighbor graph could be arbitrarily small compared to MST, and Dilone graph can be end time speaker, so there are counterexamples showing that. So in all in that with that background, at least to me, was a bit of a surprise that despite the fact that all of those graphs can be computed in polynomial time, computing MST, Sharpie hard, even in 2D.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Space One dimension is trivial because you have a line and you put a bunch of points on it. You want to compute the length, while it's just extreme point specifically. Alright, so I'm going to mention some of these results, so computing expected value of MSD Sharpie hard in two dimensions and higher you can approximate it by randomized scheme deterministic scheme for two dimension and Pete as well for two dimensions, but is also not possible to do a tail bound. So if you just want to know what is the probability that the MST has like that most album, so that's you cannot approximate. And same thing would work if you do wanna positional uncertainty as opposed to activation, you just say position is uncertain. How do you compute that? So let's see OK. So I'm going.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Maybe spend 5 minutes giving a little idea about how this reduction goes because we don't have too many charpy hardness proofs for computational geometry, so it's interesting to see former connection between a network problem and a geometric one, so my reduction is going to be from a problem called 2 terminal network reliability. The problem is this, you have a graph, G is pair of nodes SMT Ann. You have for every edge of failure probability, so it's a general network and you want to compute the probability that S&T are connected. In the graph. So this is our typical telecom network. You may want to know if edges are failing. What's the probability that S&T are connected and turns out this problem remains sharply hard?

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Even if the graph is St planar. And has maximum degree three and all the edges have failed with the same probability. OK, so I'm going to do a reduction from this problem. That is, the two node network reliability for SD planar graph with degree 3. And the idea would be this. You take an instance of.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
After St Planar graph an, I'm going to construct this stochastic set of points in two dimension plane. So idea would be you take a graph like that for and so on the left an step one would be to build a car. Toggle drawing of this graph is a planar graph. It can be drawn on a grid so well known. So on a grid, every edge of the graph will now map to a path along the grid, and let's call that path in auxiliary at virtual edge for instance. So AB for instance, map into into this L shaped path. So there are all these auxiliary grid points along the way and I'm going to choose one of those points as representative for the edge itself. And that point would appear with probability P, the same edge, the same probability with the edge fails. So this point will appear with probability P. Every other point is set with probability one. OK, so this is my step construction given a graph, building a set of points all on a on a 2 dimensional grid, an those representative points have failing with the same probability or appearing with the same probability that edge is failing. OK, that's one. So now here's a. Finally add one more virtual edge from South to T. An here is a.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
This little gadget says that in the middle I'm going to add two more extra points as Hattie Hat, which are going to be represented somehow for SD Edge and they will be set at it at distance slightly different than one, so 1.1 OK. So now let me just summarize, I have a given a graph I have setting grid construction of points. Add all the interpoint distances are really grouped in three groups small, which are all the edges along the grid. Or long, because this is a 2 dimensional grid, here any non neighboring guys have to be at least length Route 2 or more and only one extra edge in the middle, which I'm called medium, is this one this mysterious number? I'll show you in a minute why that is interesting, but the main point is that all injury, the length one or more than blue two and in between there's one little leggies Etihad. And here is how this ettehad comes into play.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So take a graph for instance, and look at the. You know, take a random instance of this graph. Some edges are failed, for instance, so the edges that are failed are the lighter ones AB&CDCT. So what happens in the construction? The representative points for those edges have disappeared, all other points are present, right? For every edge that is present you have all the grid, the virtual edges entirely present. Another observation is that imagine computing the MST of this set. Right, and imagine running Kruskal's algorithm. Kruskal's algorithm basically sort the edges from smallest to largest, so it would only use the length one edges first, then 1.1, and then do two. So the claim would be that S had T hat would only be used. If S&T are not connected in the original graph. OK, so this would be the basic. The fact that I want to use that S&T are connected in the surviving graph if and only if SMT hat is not in the MST of the stochastic set that I sort of produced. Basically, OK, that's observation. Once the second observation is that if I change the weight of this edge from 1.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
To something else but keeping in the same range between one and Route 2, I change it to 1.2. The claim is the relative order of the edges hasn't changed, so therefore the MST itself will not change. Because, you know, because ordering of the Castle would be exactly the same. So with that you have essentially the reduction at this point done, I'm going to compute.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
For the stochastic points at my expected MSD twice, one with that asset T had set to 1.1 and once you set it to 1.2 and now let's look at the difference of these two MSDS. Only change. Is as happy hacks, wait, every other edge has exactly the same probability of showing up right? So the difference in the weight of the expected weight of these MST is basically the chain. The change in the length of S at T hat times the probability with which it appeared. OK, so therefore, if you can compute the expected weight of the MST, you can compute the probability that has happened to his computer. OK, and because that was NP hard as a Sharpie, hard so computing Estes. Also sharpie.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
In two dimensions. OK, so that's the reduction. OK, so now let's.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Plus, you know, flip onto the other side, so unfortunately it's too bad that we cannot quite precisely computed, but you obviously move to the approximation and in many ways that's the most obvious thing to do. So is there is a problem you know stochastic points that you want to compute the MST you do the most natural thing you take samples from it. So how do you do take sample? I take a jet sample by picking each point SI with this probability API, so I get a sample I run. You know a bunch of samples. Take care of them. For every sample I compute the MST length and I take the average of those and I output that and that. Of course you would like it to be a good estimator of your expected MST. And so the question, of course you want to ask is that how large should the number of samples be to get a good estimate of NSD, right? So this is turned off bound type argument you need, right? I'm basically have this bunch of Bernoulli trials I'm running and I want to know how many trials I have to run. And if you think a little bit about that. The.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Sample size would depend on the range of the values. This MSD contain, right? So you take your maximum MST over all possible trials. Divided by the average. And unfortunately, if I you know in in sort of traditional theoretical computer science and computational geometry way I want to be able to only worry about, you know the end the number of points and maybe the probabilities, but not this sort of a. The distances and all that. So you obviously I could have extreme cases where I have very spread out set of points probabilities arbitrarily small, so I have sort of a super exponential in some sense spread between the maximum possible MSD, even though it appears with very small probability. But it can. So this bound could be in some sense unbounded. This ratio and I want to get around that. So here is the turns out to be a very cute little trick to get around this kind of a problem when you have extreme cases which are simple, random sampling isn't going to war.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
For you and the idea is this, so I'm going to control this.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Air conditioning and it's a very nice dynamic programming. I'm going to compute as follows, so order the points as in any order, so but less for visualization. Left right? So S1 through SN are going to point from left to right, so less in two dimensions. And suppose Ally is the expected length of the MSD for the tail from starting from its point right? So from S I2S N. And let ally prime.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Be the expected length of this tale condition on the probability that the endpoint exist. So for instance, I ally is something that to the right of the line is expected length of that and Ally Prime is conditioned on the fact that the Earth point itself exists. Of course, now you have a very nice recurrence, So what is Ally were allies, of course at the end point doesn't exist. There is a second term. 1 -- P is the probability that I point doesn't exist, and then I only have Ally plus one and the first term is when I lie. Exist I point exists and I have the I times Ally Prime because this condition on that right? So that's a very nice recurrence. Of course, now I need recursive formula for this ally prime the condition one, but I'll do the same thing one more time. So now I want to get a recursive formula for.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Ally Prime conditioned very condition on the high point exists, so now I do the following from IX point sort the remaining Points, Witcher 2 is right in the increasing distance from I. So it's no longer left or right ordering now, so sorted order. So for instance, the GX point would be the GF farthest neighbor from starting from I and now. So here is this. So reorder.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
The points I + 1 two North in the increasing distance from I and assume this order is given this way and.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
How let now Ally J Prime with expected MSD length from I to just J. But in this order right now I need one more. The double prime will be that is can dish.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
In on both ING exist. I suggest the farthest one I the starting point and ally double prime is now condition or both being present and now you see Gray you get.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Very similar occurrence now for this. So what is Ally that prime that I wanted? So Elijay prime is for the second term. Is that the J does not exist? In which case of course, is that up to the GM J -- 1 and the first one is when I enjoy both exist. And that's the new conditioning now. OK, so the OK now of course this is you know now you can see the problem that I keep going down one more one more conditioning but turns out you don't need to go anymore. That's it. So only thing I need to worry about is that how do I compute the expected MST length from I to J when both I&J are present? But that's very nice because I enjoy both present and J is the farthest neighbor of I so therefore I can bound now the MST length when the when the ion is far.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Neighbors are both active then I already know that the MST has to be at least as far apart as that distance, which is the right because that's the lower bound on MST and the upper bound is at most N times that because item. So now I have a bound between the maximum MST for this set and the ministry for that set and is within a factor of North. So in this case I only had to take order N samples to get the turn off. On that I wanted, so that's a cute little trick that you can really reduce it from an unbounded number of samples to bounded, as long as you get it. Found on the maximum value. No range of the MST that you're going to get, so with that you can now run that. So I have this recurrence and only when I get down to the second level recurrence I rely on the sampling to get back. And now I have this polynomial an over epsilon algorithm to get the fully polynomial approximation scheme, which is a randomized sense.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
OK, so this is the conclusion of that.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
And now let me I just want to mention it only briefly that once I at least know how to estimate the expected. You would also like to know something about the tail bound. I mean, it would be nice to be able to say something that here is a stochastic set and the probability that the MST is longer than something is at most and turns out that's very.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Hard and it's very easy to see that this actually has a connection to Steiner tree problem. So starting problem is this. You have a set of points and you have a subset of them is called terminals and you want to know.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
So if there's a Steiner tree of some length connecting those terminals, using the remaining as a Steiner points. So here, of course you can just take that instance and you take the terminals appear with probability one. The remaining guys appear with probability, half. For instance. Right now the idea would be if the expected length of this MST. Is going to be less than your target L if and only if there's a Steiner tree of length less than, equal to, well, so that's the only way to get below Al is to use one of those points, right? And that's the only answer you know that's only stochastic thing allowed. So in other words, being able to decide whether your answer is, you know whether the probability of something is 0 or not is hard, and therefore you cannot even approximate this idea. This tail bound of the MST, so that's unfortunate. OK, but let me just jump to something that which I found even more.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Surprising to some extent so. Another tell you more about that. They also deterministic way to compute the minimum spanning tree length roughly is the following. I already showed you how to compute the expected length of the deloney graph. Thought you could also do expected length of the what's called the. You know the relative neighborhood graph, which has very similar kind of construction. But the relative neighborhood graph can be end times bigger than MST. So what you'd like to do is somehow to prune it down now in the terministic it's that easy, because you already have the energy graph. You can edge by edge, figure out some edges to prune. The trouble here is that I'm stochastic, so I don't want to. I don't have RNG. I basically want to find a rule that could prune edges in a way that I could only estimate the probability, which with that edge would have been in RNG and then. Not and also being an MST and so on, so that's something. A little bit more tricky to do, but there's an algorithm, but that analysis is OK and I'm going to completely skip it for now, but along the way came a problem which was very fundamental, and I thought that should have been well known.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
It's a turns out not so, and it's this problem. Suppose I give you stochastic point sets of two colors. Even one color would be OK, but let's talk about the Bichromatic case. So you have red and blue points in the two dimensional plane. I'm drawing. In this case very simply separated one, but in practice think about their intermixed one so you have a sum N red points an N blue points in the plane. Same stochastic set up. Every point has some probability right? I want to know what is the probability that the closest pair of red blue point. Has length at least one. So think about for instance that I have, you know, two enemies, two teams in the two enemy teams here, Red team and the Blue team, and you want to know that what is the closest enemy pair in the plane and when the activation probabilities are given to you. What seems like a very simple problem because you know these are independent probabilities. An I you know for every pair you can figure out that was the probability that right? But the trouble is that that the points are independent, but the nearest neighbor relation.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Is on edges. And that's where the independence get destroyed. So that's you know that's the problem. And here's a you know. You can easily reduce it. You know we're talking yesterday about their doing reduction.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
The wrong way. So here's the problem that seems easy to reduce in the graph setting, so a graph version of the problem says the following. You have a bipartite graph. But

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Every node fails with some probability and I just want to know what is the probability that there's no surviving edge in the graph.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
Right? And that it turns out to be hard, but of course doesn't help me because I have a geometric case which is. The reduction doesn't go that way, but it took us awhile.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
But it turns out that even that's hard, and it does come down to.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
This problem, that is something with counting vertex cover. So even the following simple problem is hard. That probability that the closest pair distance in a set of points is less than some number. So if I have some stochastic sets are supposed to have infected population with some probability distribution and I want to know that how close are two infected people, for instance that computing that probability is hard even in two dimensions. Even the Bichromatic version is hard, but the following instances easy solve, that's why I do this that if you have the red and blue points are linearly separable. In this case, actually there are more than linearly separable P but linearly separable are OK. So if you have a line separating red and blue. And you have you just want to compute the probability of the closest pair between them. Then you have a nice dynamic programming algorithm to compute that. However, if you remove the linear separability is hard, and in three dimension, even linearly separable and bichromatic is hard. So it seems like you know a very basic problem that computing nearest neighbor probabilities, even with independent probability, seems like a hard problem. OK so I have still some time so let me do that. So now I'm going to switch gears a little bit and talk about another problem in the same setting. But here I have sort of a more mostly more positive news then then NGE.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
News, so here's a problem that we have been thinking about that traveling salesman through tours through uncertain regions. So let's has a setting I want to plan a shortest tool visiting geometric neighborhoods in the plane. Neighborhoods are uncertain, and I'll tell you in a minute what that means. More precisely, every region is a disc. Richest whose center is known but his radius is not known. So you could think about it of some phenomenon, but I really don't know how. How spread out that phenomena is. So I'm thinking about again, you know you can think about the centers of these Gaussians may be known to you, but this you know. Each has their own little Gaussian.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Distribution and you can visit each of those Gaussian by going to a some some distance depending upon the outcome. And the motivation is coming from a sensor network data collection.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
And we have a collaboration going on with. With the USC Robotics Group, which they are collecting data from Southern California blight in the Pacific Ocean, which has a subtle almost a dozen buoy mounted sensors in the ocean and they are collecting all sorts of readings from the temperature and the LG and all that. And periodically they send out to all of this. But there's a UV, this autonomous underwater vehicle, so it say about four meter long solar powered. A little robotic vehicle that goes out and collects data and you know these are again in ocean is a low speed, so travels about something like a meter couple of meters a minute so it takes about a week for it to go and travel something like about 40 miles to collect data and the communication is through acoustic sensors transmitters and the range is a stochastic variable because I mean even already we know that in the wireless sensors that you know the unit disk model. Is a fiction is a complicated region, but even if you assume that it's not a radius is not fixed, is a distribution, and I mean the distribution itself may have holes and all that, but least you make some reasonable assumption about that. It's a probability is higher as you get closer, but it's sort of decades, but it's you know the range can be enormous. You could be 10 miles down to at times half a mile, so there's enormous range at which you may be able to communicate depending upon the. You know atmospheric conditions and so on, so in essence you really have this traveling salesman problem, so here's my little, you know the cartoon drawing that I have. These sensors in the ocean, and the different you know, circular agents are telling you that on a particular instance. What's the communication range on which the sensors can operate, and robust job is to visit all of these neighborhoods on this on a single tool for instance. So let me. Formalize that into or before I do that.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
OK, so this is I want to compute the shortest tool to visit all of these sensor neighborhoods. There's a second complication here that so far I haven't mentioned that in fact, not only are these ranges random variables, But you only learn them when you get there. Cause I mean we don't have a, you know some kind of a Oracle telling us that today the communication range is Kate Liters or 8 miles. Is that you only discover by by trying at that range. So there's online problems that not only that you have to compute the order, some kind of a traveling Salesman tour, but the traveling Salesman Tour. It has to be some kind of strategy that goes towards the neighborhood, an expectation that you might be able to communicate from this with this distance. And if you cannot, then you have to adapt yourself somehow. So.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Formalize this problem. So here's a formal problem. I have given N fix dissenters inside 2 dimensional plane, so the centers are given to you and there are random radii for each one of them and they chosen from some distribution faster. So for now I'm going to only assume that the distribution has some mean mu and in some kind of a decay function that I don't want to get into at the moment, but each draw is a typical, you know, is it different interrupts? Pienso think about on a typical day that. Some sensors arranges you know smaller versus large, and this is some distribution given to you. And for every instance I you have an optimal tool. Like so for a particular instance, I know what optical tool would be, so the question would be what? What is that I want to compare myself to already know this is an NP complete problem. So what do I want to compare that to? So let East of El Star be the expected value of all the tools over all the instances. OK, so in other words, you try all possible draws from this distribution for every instance you have an optimal tool, you take the expectation that is. And what I want to do is strategy which give me approval approximation of that for instance. So just wanna make sure on you know you wake up tomorrow and you have some random instance of your traveling salesman tool problem. I'm not interested in comparing myself to optimal of that instance. OK, so the difference here is that I want to only compare myself to the expected average, the expected optimal. Alright, for a particular instance, I'm not that interested because they understand that this is something I'm going to over and over again, and I'll be happy to just get close to the expectation of all the optimal over all the instances. And this is both in the, so I'm going to look at this problem both in the offline and online setting. The online setting would be that you even discover the neighborhood only by going there and the offline case. I say that suppose the algorithm finds out in the morning what the ranges are, but you still have to find a tool so that you can meet this optimum in a strategy. OK, so I'm going to very briefly say something about. The main idea is that so.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
A key idea turns out to be. This that consider one special case of this stochastic problem, call it M where every range appears with the mean value. So in other words that every communication the neighborhood has radius mu, for instance. That's a special case and let opt M be the optimal tool for that particular instance. So here is the interesting.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
Tell him that we can prove that comes out handy is that optimum of the mean. He is not much worse than the the mean of the optimal. Right, so each star is the optimum expected optimum over all instances. An optimal M is over optimal for single instance just using the mean, for instance right saying that that mean is not too bad. I mean it's only within a factor. Two of the expected over all the things like. So that at least have, in terms of bound, that's a nice round. Of course it is not very useful for.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
Designing a tour itself because blindly following the optimal M is not even going to visit all the disk in a particular instance becausw right? I mean, Optimum says that the Mu says that visit this circle here in some particular way. But on a typical day, the real instance of that would be much much smaller, so you can't even visit it if you follow just that. That tool that optimum gave you that we're right 'cause mu is telling you that supposed them you. Is it 1 mile for every sensor and you design your tool to visit that deterministic tour? But in practice many many receivers on that particular day may be much smaller than you. Know half or 1/3 of a mile. In this case you have to now adapt your tool to go visit them, and that's how you're going to get killed. 'cause you make a loss of local detours. So blindly following it will do that, but it tells you things. A high level clue about you know that this tool is not too bad from the optimal expectation, and now if you can somehow adapt without changing it too much. Then you still can get a good approximation, so I'm just going to summarize by saying that here are the.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
The couple of results we can prove that if it is the case, that in the mean case meaning that the mean radii of all of these neighborhoods are disjoint, then you can get a constant factor approximation with respect to the expectation. Otherwise, we have these two bounds that log log N in the offline case and log in in the in the online case, and with that I think I'm going to finish.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
Just maybe do a sort of conclusion saying that. So we've been thinking about the effects of uncertainty on the complexity of geometric problems, and it was somewhat surprising to me that some basic questions like you know, trying to understand the closest pair behavior or putting the probability bounds on the closest pair is so hard. On the other hand, the whole bunch of geometric problems that turn out to be just as easy as they were in the term in this case. Of course, there remains some interesting questions that the naive way of computing these things are. Still, you know, maybe. Huber into the 4th whereas we know deterministic can be done in almost any log in time. So are there better ways to do that? More meaningfully, there are still a lot left in the sense that even for the MSD, what I've talked about is only going to give you a an estimate of the length. For instance, or expected length of the Delaunay triangulation. But more meaningful question would be that if you do have uncertain data, is there some you know what's a good spanning tree for this set, for instance, right? Or can you even talk about part of the MST or part of the Looney triangulation that you can say? It's a relatively robust meaning that almost all MSDS for for you know for the stochastic set are going to include major part of that. For instance, under what conditions even makes sense. And of course there are a lot of other geometric questions which we haven't talked about. The shortest path. For instance, you know anytime you travel, you have obstacles or or whatever you know cost functions, but if there's uncertainty in that, how do you compute shortest path so that you have a single strategy that gives you something? In expectation, good to the optimum. OK, so with that I'll stop and maybe take any questions.
