Everyone knows that language is variable, and I think that's true for common person on the street and everyone else, but somehow, but that hasn't been the way in which linguistic theory has been instructed in the following. So they build such a model and conclude from that EM learning over this kind of grammar doesn't work. Or you could just look at the links and ignore the errors, and these results were actually for undirected dependencies, because that's what has happened did. So if your English is very simple, baseline is to assume uniform by branching structure. Actually in September, can we use these kinds of spans and context to learn syntax and or same way that distribution constrained word word classes? It sort of seems like there's still 1 missing idea which is distributional classes are easy to find. So of the with without men kind of ones that rents also mentioned aren't phrases where some of them like in the end on time for now. That yeah, I'm 200 million words of language input. If you take split uniform. OK, so at that point we had two models of trying to learn linguistic structure. And so combining the two of them dependencies arrived about 65% of the time and the constituency is right about 88% of the time, which is actually really good in particular. Point and say a little about the learning of semantic roles. The meaning of sentence is, and so as well as knowing about something about the syntax. OK, and so this kind of semantic role labeling has been studied a lot in supervised learning in recent years, and the question is can you? Last appointed boots and linguistic, but it's important to realize that means the log these ideas were developed in the 1950s and have a singular difference from the 1950s is that in the 1950s. OK, so there's a huge space of possible linkings where we're linking from semantic roles to syntactic roles, and if we tried to sort of estimate that by some enormous multinomial that might not work very well. So the strategy we took was to decompose the linking into a series of derivation steps. Yeah, so this is famous result by gold. That is a form of negative evidence. You can strip the language class with an egg knowledge that's effective program, but the other one is that gold assumed this. OK, so so so that at least shows a little bit of push it how we can push things further that we can build a model of verb linking that is again without labeled data for a lot of verbs that can learn linking patterns that look kind of like the linking patterns that linguists would propose for. There's no fancy stuff in there, but you know the versions of both of them that work are dependent on having model structures, which in both cases weren't the first one we tried that a model structures that actually makes salient the kind of generalizations that you. People should be thinking should be possible.