On our proposal, which is ontology based data access for strings which uses extensions of sparkle. Streams to mix the two and our proposal looks like this is ontology based streaming data access. And distributed query processing engine can use this languages to just query the data sources in a distributed fashion. The result of this distributed query processing engine will be tough as this is wrong. And we what we can do with the Sparkle Stream is just bounded with this windows. So we can say I want to all the RDF triples in the last one minute, like here. For example, an observer property can be the temperature or the wind speed. It can be potentially infinite. And we usually want to do continuous queries over this kind of data. There are several applications for this kind of streaming data, like security surveillance, health care provision, environment, environmental monitoring. Is part of the sensor grid architecture and it's called the semantic integrator there. So one example of a query or request that he he could do about all this data is like provide me with the wind speed observations over the last minute in this Solent region. Of a use case we had in sensor, we wanted to integrate two data sources that expose wave information. And of course there is no interoperability in this data and. That our sample every 10 minutes. In sensor grid, the underlying data sources they use streaming query language which is. And so the system works pretty much in the same way. I have presented this ontology based streaming data querying. They were the basis of the well not well. It is pretty much the same thing, it's windows and. Well, in terms of performance. But when we have joints, for example, if I want to see whether this wave from this data source is higher than the other way from the other data source, there it gets complex. String bass is the best one. But what we need to provide for them is mappings, because if we want to expose this data ontologies, we need to provide some kind of mapping from the data sources to the proposed ontology.