[0.0s - 29.0s]
So this is mostly about the streaming data and how we can provide the streaming data, not in a row format that enrich with the. Semantic annotations and the semantic context and query with some streaming data using ontologies.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So first I will give a very brief introduction. I will check what we kind of data we deal with. On our proposal, which is ontology based data access for strings which uses extensions of sparkle. Yeah. So we have streaming stream of people there. Yeah, and. And some implementations of our approach. I just wanted to highlight this. All this work has been done in the context of the V7 sensor grid project that is about to.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Finish. So. We deal with sensor data so sensor data is we all know it's noisy and right unreliable, but comes from devices that are everywhere and they are capable of capturing all kinds of information that surrounds us. And this data is typical. Typically only had only append only data. It can be potentially infinite. It is usually time stamp it. And we usually want to do continuous queries over this kind of data. Continuous queries means we don't do one shot queries. We issue one and we get continuously updates on what is going on in the stream. What we care, contrary to databases, is not on the sum states stages of the world at some point in time, but we care about the changes of values overtime. There are several applications for this kind of streaming data, like security surveillance, health care provision, environment, environmental monitoring.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Hang on. Lots of things, so some motivational examples. For example, floats risk alert in southeast England, so an emergency planner wants to see if there is a flood risk in some part of the England cost and it has lots of data available. For example real time data from voice diploid in the see it provides the data like waves. Wind tides can also have meta data from the Met Office. About I don't know temperatures and that kind of stuff and data from the Environmental Engineers Agency and many more. So there are lots of data sources that he could use. But all of this. They have different characteristics. They for instance they have different schemas. They they come up different rates, so it's very after a genius in that sense. And it can get very complex for this guy to make sense out of all these data that is available. So one example of a query or request that he he could do about all this data is like provide me with the wind speed observations over the last minute in this Solent region. If it is higher than some average. So if this conditions are met then we have we may have flood risk alert.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
We can have other examples, for example in the Swiss Swiss Experiment project. In this. In this case we have researchers sign geoscientists and they have data from the mountains from the Alps. In Switzerland they have real time data from sensors like for example snow levels, wind, wind speeds, directions, radiation and other. Another characteristic is that they want to examine, so as in previous presentations, this kind of researchers. They they have lots of data and they use Excel, Air, R or Matlab tools to find correlations from these data sources. But there are huge, so they had lots of. Well, they have hundreds of sensors, for example in this in this project. Their whole heterogeneous. They have completely different schemas and this these people really have to know each data source in order to make sense out of it. For example, they have to know that this particular column holds temperature fields. This is temperature, but it's relative temperature with respect to something, so it's very complex and they really have to know all this specific specificities of the data. And of course there is no interoperability in this data and. It's really hard for these people to find relevant information there. So.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So our proposal for solving this kind of problems is using ontologies as a common model.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
For representing all this kind of data which can be stored.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And. We we make the specificities of the data transparent to end users and they don't need to care about all these details that I mentioned. But what we need to provide for them is mappings, because if we want to expose this data ontologies, we need to provide some kind of mapping from the data sources to the proposed ontology.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So in the past this work has been done to some extent for relational databases, so you have relational database. You have some kind of transformation tool with mapping document and you can generate RDF for some ontology Cal model out from it, and there's several implementations of this like I mentioned here.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Well, this is just an example of how streaming data works. Typically you have events or stream tupos that can be sampled, and we usually usually use windows to limit. The number of the stream tables that we want to deal with this because some operators like joins or aggregates. They just don't work with infinite topples. And there are of course, several streaming data systems that use this kind of streaming data models that have been developed in the literature. So in our proposal, we.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
What we want to do is to combine these two things ontology.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Great access for relational databases.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Streams to mix the two and our proposal looks like this is ontology based streaming data access. So what we have is this box in the middle. This big box between the client and the data sources so we can have sensor network data sources, streaming engines and also relational store databases. So what we have here is a possibility for clients to write sparkle with streaming extensions over some ontologies, and this queries are translated into some algebra of this streaming Sparkle data language. And as it's an algebra expression, it can be transformed to an underlying streaming data engine query language like. Like some of what a little like like some of the existing ones like this niquil or CQL or other proposals. And distributed query processing engine can use this languages to just query the data sources in a distributed fashion. The result of this distributed query processing engine will be tough as this is wrong. It should be should be topless here and the data translation transform the topples into triples. Sorry I think I. I stopped, but in order to do this, we as I already said we need some kind of mappings between the ontologies and the data sources. So I will explain some of the some of the things that are in this box is. So first the sparkle stream.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Query language. So in this practice, we assume that we have RDF annotated with timestamps like here. So for example we have. We have here a stream which is a. We put the streams in graphs in RDF. A stream of which S and aim and inside we have this triples, for example. This observation is of this type. Observation, and he has some time stamp, so it's just RDF with timestamps.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And we what we can do with the Sparkle Stream is just bounded with this windows. So we can say I want to all the RDF triples in the last one minute, like here. So this creates a continuous query that gets evaluated in this in the distributed query processor here. And we can continually get data from there. So as you can see, the query is expressed over some ontology. In this case the SN observation ontology. We represent events observations. The observation has a property unobserved property. For example, an observer property can be the temperature or the wind speed. There is the actual value, which is the observation result and the feature of interest. For example, in the save the. For example, the wave height. In the case of the wave height, the feature of interest is the see that we want to observe.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So now that I have explained this particular stream, I can.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Go.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So a bit deeper into the mappings. So what are these stream told?

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Mappings there is one language. This core R2 RML. Which is an initiative by the W. 3C RDB to RDF community and what they propose in this language is a way to declaratively define how to transform data from a database into an RDF representation. So it's very simple. The language is in RDF itself. So in this example, we say that we want all the. We want all the data from the from this table and data both come. To be transformed into triples. So what do we do? For each tuple that exists in this table, we will generate a triple with this subject. So this subject will have this UI. That is constructed dynamically so we have a part of the UI, which is a template, and this date time is in fact a column of the M data both comptable. So for each tuple of them database containing table we will have a triple there. Like in this example. So the IT is also declared the class. So all this triple generated from here will have this class like like he's generated here down here. And we can also declare predicates with this predicate object map definition. So each of these triples will have a predicate which is called has quantity value and the values of this. Predicate the objects in fact will be the columns HS from the data. Both comp table. So this is the result in triples in this example. Of course, the mappings can be much more complicated. We can. We can generate lots of triples from just one tuple. We can. We can do lots of things, so this is this language is available in the W 3C Working Group page. If you need more details.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So once we have the mappings, who I will explain how we do the query trans.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Nation.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
We have these mappings where what we can do is just transform a query expression into an algebra first, so. For example, I have here this particular query. It can just be expressed as a set of conjunctive conjunctive. Query atoms. And in the case of Windows, is the same thing, but we just add this. Window constraints we established from which which is the interval of time and the Delta, which is how often we perform this query.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
What's this we have this map. This mappings on this expressions we can represent them as algebra expression very simple, just like in databases we can using the mappings we say in this case. For example, if we map this this table which is data Milford with this fields into an observation. If we have this query. We can just transform it using the mapping information into this algebra expression, and this algebra expression can be translated to any underlying. Query language that supports these operations.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
We can have more complex queries like in this case that we have unions. In this case we we want to map all these tables which are very similar in their structure to a single observation model. They just represent different sensor readings from in different places, but they can be represented using just this observation model ontology and we just perform a union. In the algebra expression.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So the result in the end when we. Serialize this algebra expression is just a query language expression, in this case. In this case is sneak were query language expressions. Nicole is a. It's a streaming data language query string query language that is based on SQL and. An SQL.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So that's that. Was it about ontology based streaming data access?

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And I will now explain how we have applied this in the sensor grid project, so this component.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Here.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Is part of the sensor grid architecture and it's called the semantic integrator there. So it's part of a middleware we have down here. The data sources which are the sensor network databases and we have up there. The application services that use our semantic integrator as a centralized data source will centralized and distributed data source because they just ask queries then and the semantic integrator decides where to push down those queries.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So this is a typical interaction with the semantic integrator or I QoS. It has three interfaces. And the typical workflow is a is the following. The client asks to integrate two different data sources using this integrator separation, it passes the list of data sources that it wants to integrate, and the mapping document. And it returns the integrated data source once it has integrated data source, the client can issue a query over this integrated data source using these partial stream language. And then I continuous queries created and once we have this continued continuous query created, we can just pull data from it every time we need. We can also use a push based mechanism although it has not been implemented.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So well, this is just what I said before the typical interact.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
With iqs. And this is just an example of. Of a use case we had in sensor, we wanted to integrate two data sources that expose wave information. They have one of these sources has this schema. A table with some columns.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And we use the term R2 RML mapping to define the mapping between the tables and the ontology.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Like I said before, and we just go through the different interactions that I said first.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Integrate us the resource it creates a virtual integrated resource that can be queried using using Sparkle Stream.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
We we can issue this queries. We can use filters. Any sparkle construct that we want and then we just. We just pulled the data.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Afterwards and their results is it can be depending on which kind of query it is. For example, if it's set query we get bound variables as a result. Otherwise we get RDF.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So using this lesson, this mapping based query approach is very simple. For example, to query other kinds of data. For example, if we want to look for sea temperature instead of waves, we just change the mapping or add a new mapping like in this case.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And we will.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Get the results. Also. If we look again at the of the ontology that I mentioned, the sensor network ontology. That has this this complex model. It can be in fact more a bit more complex than in the previous example. This that I mentioned, because for example, an observation can have a sensor output, which is the result. This can have value. The value can have units of measurement and the actual values are represented at this level, so the mappings could grow a bit more complex, but the.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
It can be.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Supported and even more complex query RDF results can be built.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Using construct queries but well.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
This is just more of the same. This is a typical result of pooled data from our system. Just RDF data of observations, sensor outputs observations.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Alias just like like is represented in the.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
SN model.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
So as I said this, this system can be used by high level applications like in this case. This mashup flood risk application the deployed by the University of Southampton. In this case, we. We have this red spots which represent wave Heights that are. That our sample every 10 minutes. And we have lots of deployments over the coast of.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
South England and in the case of the Swiss experiment, it's a little bit different because in. In sensor grid, the underlying data sources they use streaming query language which is. This is Nicole that I mentioned, but in the Swiss experiment they use. They don't have this query language, they have a web service interface through their GSN streaming engine. But as we have an algebra, we can just transform the algebra expressions into service requests that are sent to this GSM service. And so the system works pretty much in the same way. Do we just need to add some kind of wrapper in the?

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
8. And we have another application that uses this.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
This service, so in the end we have. I have presented this ontology based streaming data querying. We will use sparkle with streaming extensions to access the sensor data and represent them as represented as observationes in terms of an ontology, we can allow users to add new sources in a very transparent way using these mappings. And we use this query translation mechanism that I have explained it that allows to integrate heterogeneous data source using ontology based approach and that's. OK. Questions. Your model looked like if you have used that, you see sense observation. Amazing model is that case. Yeah, just see is sensor ML and the observations and measurements model. They were the basis of the well not well. One of the sources of of inspirational of the SSN ontology. It's yeah, that's the case. The only way to group like system that we see the main idea was just to to move their observations and measurements model into into our so so you have just. Other than that, you can reuse. He's been reused by lots of people now. Yeah, yeah, the SSN ontologies used bye bye. Good number of projects now. Yep. But that means that was the main idea of of Samantha Symmetrizing the sensor data, because the main idea, OK, because what you're doing is, as I have understood, we have sensors which are stupid and now you are semantically correct. And what was the main idea? Why? Why do you care? Yeah, that there are several motivations for that. One of them is one of them is the possibility of integration and Inter Inter probability because there are heterogeneous models, nobody understand, understand them. So we have a model that more people can understand. So that's something. That's something that is useful. Another thing is that some kind of queries that we can made on them. For example, if I want I don't know the temperature values in this region, but there are several kinds of temperatures, so there are already models that deal with this. For example, we have this sweet ontologies that they have relative temperature, all kinds of temperatures in a taxonomy or ontology model, so we can do more interesting queries with that. But you think about queries and not about these continuous queries when you would like to. As you said, this saved value right? First slide was with this. If you go to the store or there is like they have a example in order to. To detect some less, let's call them again situations. Obviously, you're doing good in spring. I hang up. I don't know what engine you're using for. For patent protection. Debate.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
On streams, let's say which engine you're using for your processing. OK, so for example, in this case we're using the various in this Disney query engine. For example, doesn't have the complex event pattern matching mechanism. It works with the normal query stuff and Windows basically, so we have that support in GSN, which is the other other engine that we have used in the other project. It is pretty much the same thing, it's windows and. And that kind of support. So complex event no no. Could be seen as a new type of data source. I mean whenever you have sensor data sources that I mean in general they are quite thorough genius in general there. So what you can see this as a data source provider. I mean, what we're doing is the transformation into this observation or measurement model. So now I mean you could plug in your or compressive and processing techniques afterwards. So now you have a box that is generating data by already, like in a very much passed away. I mean, so it's already. Already like I mean. That said, you should probably think about how you can. Because my group is starting exactly that point there are there is data which is somehow there. Let's process it. OK, so following up on this but do you do you actually? In this prayer massage instead, do you actually actively query, or you're expecting the sensors to send you the data? When it does make sense for some for you that you have 3. Sorry. So the question would be, are you when you stab Lish appear in this one? Are you doing active queries or are you actually telling when you do the composition and you turn the sensor well? If you find any of these, let us know. Otherwise, don't bother. Yeah, yeah, we work. We can work with the stream stream query engine two ways we can. We can interact with them with pull and push based approaches. So in the pool base we ask in the push based they tell us when they have it. I think then you are getting closer than to the CP as well. There's people working on stream processing for this kind of thing where you basically you turn a database consistent upside down. So when the data is their property, so that were located, so query actually there was one thing this so you actually notify. Yeah to some extent. I mean we're closer to just doing that worries. I mean, it's really what we do. Generate the queries and we instantiate the processing. It was presented. We don't see the data source that is now provided off that type of query. I mean, there could be multiple data sources or handling exactly the same data source, and they're providing you results if their queries are matched so they could be just sense in the sense of data, so it is not actually. I mean, it's not exactly the same as it is running in CP system, but I mean we are defining predicating those those queries over there. And besides in CFP the patterns it's much more complicated to manage so. This is different. Evaluate the complex. This is really a retaining a breeding season for you can do really anything. Last one would be. Regarding performance, so I mean I don't know the kind of queries that you been through, But the question would be how does this work when you actually put in the data together across distributed sets? Was the performance that you are you hitting a bottleneck or because you think about doing joints across different datasets then it gets a bit tricky so I was just wondering whether yeah yeah, in terms in terms of in terms of scale. Well, in terms of performance. We're working on on the form on quantitative quantitative evaluation of performance right now, but what can I tell you now is that for joints, it's really really complex because in streams. And especially with this query engines which are not commercial at all, so so we really have problems in most of the cases we do unions. Which is much more easy and efficient, and it works quite fine. But when we have joints, for example, if I want to see whether this wave from this data source is higher than the other way from the other data source, there it gets complex. And if you go to the peace and really should have at look, look at the continuous query, the database community so we're not doing that in Spain, right? You're doing complex in processing, but for those guys think they really optimize alot of things, pipelines and whatever. So if you want to go in that direction and have a look at the other dealer, Frank Streambase is the best one. String bass is the best one. System string based images which is based on the database knowledge isn't doing this. Yeah, that's one of the reasons that we rely. On streaming streaming engine so we can change this streaming engine by another One South, so yeah. That sounds OK with me now. Or the main world that we have been doing is when it is also related to physical sensors. So I mean that there's a difference between these three main data, Indians, database oriented and the sensors themselves. I mean which is the physical device as well. So part of the work that is not presented by us because we are not doing it, but I mean it's it's funny that. I mean some query code is compiled from the sequel and it's sent into the sensors and the sensors are collecting that information out from there from the query that we generate. You compile gold and you identify the code in this. Yeah, the code is run by the sensors themselves, so so that's a different. Are a little bit different when you have really like streaming query engine, where I mean the the data is originally really in general stored in the in the database, so that's that's why we have come into into this view. And I mean in fact the stress test that we are currently running are going to to be mainly focus on the on the physical sensors again, but I mean that's that's one of the one of the things that we want to see. OK, thanks very much. Almost half an hour behind, but anyway, it was really nice. Thank you very much.
