[0.0s - 29.0s]
So hi everyone, my name is Jan and I'm going to present you picked up the ocean. It is a project on exploiting oceans of data. So big data in the maritime domain.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the main objectives of Big Data Ocean are first of all that it will provide a multisegment platform that will combine data of different velocity of different characteristics, different variety and volume using an interlink trusted multilingual engine and in the end big Data Ocean is going to provide a very big maritime related repository that will deliver, among other services, an API's to different numbers of stakeholders.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Picked up the ocean has started only some months ago, so it is a European project that is for 30 months and started in the 1st of January 2017 and houses for very interesting pilots. I will introduce you these 4 pilots that we have in the project that we use in order to collect the requirements and validate the platform. The first of the pilots is vessel for prediction and proactive maintenance. So the goal of this pilot is to predict the damage of equipment vessels and do proactive maintenance of this equipment and the vessels. We have two companies that are ship owners that provide this pilot, wasana clients and Finikas Shipping Company Reserve to Greek shipping companies. The second one has to do with Marie protection. It is the forecasting of oil spill propagation in case of accidents in the sea. That means that the how we're going to improve the effectiveness, how we're going to improve the action in case of accidents at the sea and the owner of this pilot is the Hellenic Center of Maritime Research. The third one has to do with maritime security and anomaly detection. This is pattern recognition of ship trajectories in order to identify some emergencies at the Ceann again, be able to act proactively and efficiently. And the company that provides this information and also the data sets is called marinetraffic, with provides positions and trajectories of several bases around the world. And finally we have a pilot on wave power wave energy and this has to do with how to find the best locations, how to predict the equipment costs, or the environmental costs in order to enable the. Production of wave power. So the important thing with these pilots is that all of them provide data and also consume data. Data that are maybe proprietary data that may be open and some of the pilots provide data that can be used as inputs in the rest of the pilots so.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
A very short overview of the vision of the project and also an illustration of what we provide an what we expect. So we have on the bottom side different kinds of data with different characteristics. As I said, so we may have some static data like historical data structure, unstructured data like a social data. We may have data that are coming from ships that are coming from IoT devices from sensors, so we're different. Velocity also we have of course big data with the data that is gathered. For several days or several years in the platform, we're going to provide several components and several services that integration, visualization, analytics, and on top of this several services and APIs for different kinds of stakeholders like public authorities, marketing companies, NGOs, scientists, of course, energy companies, local communities.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So what we offer or what we plan to offer first of all, maritime related data sets for downloading, but also the platform with Arlo purchasing this data sets. Our vision is to provide the biggest or a big marketing data repository for all these data sets and also APIs and services that from with different stakeholders will profit. And with the stakeholders can download for free or purchase and the designer for building such services. On top of this picked up the ocean platform.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So we expect, of course, maritime related data sets, vocabularies, ontologies or so data in structure format or so unstructured data. Also maritime related services or use cases for analytics visualizations of this data and finally, maritime related organisations that can act as early adopters of the big data Ocean platform. And we're actually. In this phase, now that we are approaching several other stakeholders that may use this platform or may provide data and services for this so.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The list of all the partners that are involved. In this project. Anne.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Some contact information the website. And that's all for myself. Thank you very much. Big data ocean.
