The scheduling problem, I hope you know what means NP hard that will be completely different course to explain. The web will be much slower. So second thing is that with enough locality we can have a cheaper search engine. I'm here, we put the fraction of pages downloaded so if you do random so basically breath first. This will be basically a power law inverted power law. Very few good pages, many many bad pages. This is using no historical information, so the only thing you can use is what you know in the current crawl. OK, we had a friend that allowed us to use their computers and he wanted to crawl the Greek domain. You know the web is only 21 years old. Users, so this is like a typical software defined loop applied to web design and a crucial thing that usually does not cover if something called findability. One problem with more data is privacy. A particular person, but the group of people that is doing the same. Officious so the new frontiers, what our problems today. So the real problem today is the front end and user experience, so people will switch search engine because you have a better user experience because we really know how to solve the basic search problem. Or 8 whatever you for people wake up and say OK, I need to travel to conference and I have to search for my ticket for the train schedule for the hotel for what I had to see there. And then we go from something called information retrieval to information supply. So I already showed you this on Tuesday, so this is a typical web search engine. The freedom if deciding the number of data centers, how to assign users to data centers and how to assign the index or basically data to data centers. Suppose you have 20 billion web pages. So this will imply this will be enough to have this. So basically what I'm saying is that each server can answer 1000 queries per second in their own index and then we have to merge the 10,000 answers to get the financing. What happens if one cluster phase? But then, if you especially now when I said in one month we got 100 million servers or more. Depends on many external factors. So one for design choice can affect performance of everything else and I will give you examples. Fast, high capacity, dependable and scalable. The index depends on good calling, so you have a good index, but it's because you have good pages. And if you do distributed calling. Quality metrics and implementation issues. So basically the best one was a link analysis metrics or kind of page rank URL DEF also work quite well. So basically crawling shallow pages 1st and crawling the pages later. The thing is, the main open problem today to use all this. That works. The probability of finding what you're looking in the cash. So when you have a myth. So if you have a 30% hit ratio. That will increase the capacity. So caching helps to make queries local. So what we can cash in web search while we can cash card results already mentioned that on Tuesday or we can cash. These are called posting leave. Do the side online. So if I said Tuesday what you write is not what you want, so please write about what you want and the web will be better. So what happens if you do caching of queries of answers? So basically we will appear once in your day in your query set. You can do much better because only 5% of the terms are unique, so the infant cash will have a 95% hydration. And here's another paradox. First we tried the static caching of the index. But they are not too large. Because if they are too large, they take too much space in the cache. And then you want to take the small things that have more value and then you use this realistic with the classical realistic. Divide the frequency of their term in the queries by the frequency of the term in the documents. The optimal point using compressed index, which is there one this in practice is that 30% of the memory should be used for caching results. You have to use 70% of the memory that should be local for the answers and 30% of the memory that should be remote for the index. And now your question could be OK. A static caching queries change. That's called EFI but basically split the cash into two parts, one static 80% and one dynamic 20% that uses LRU. You feel that the three term queries are more frequent, so these are the misses. So this is an example where if you analyze something alone, you find 1 result. So this doesn't work so less, and that's why I wanted to put this important to consider the interaction between the components. So many queries are local. The answer returns only local documents. So one problem is to predict if the query is local. But if this contacting Coblence and the guy can decide if you are from covering for not. MMCC, I'm not from here. We will need to have two priority queues because basically we have to to have a priority of websites and then a priority of web pages for each site. But if the second index is required, the system is less efficient becausw. You have to wait for the second search. That's too expensive, so better. Queries that are predicted to need the second index, but when you get here, they doesn't ask for them. We don't need the second index. But when we get to the first of the fifth or fifth, come on, we need the second index. If the system A is twice faster than 15 B because that's the first index, but 15-B cost twice the cost of system A because it's much larger. In the centralized case, we could do 29% faster at 20% extra cost. 15% answer at .5 extra cost. The sequence of page requests. That means page time that optimizes the function of the volume, quality and freshness of the pages. We don't want to starve. From the centralized system, we can go almost to 80%, but this is different search engine.