[0.0s - 29.0s]
So before starting the material that was supposed to talk, now I will finish my first part. It will try to do it in 15 minutes. Basically was the second problem. The second difficult problem? The first was ranking, the second was calling.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Phone calling for NP hard. The scheduling problem, I hope you know what means NP hard that will be completely different course to explain. On one of the reasons is that there are many different goals, but I will explain in the next slide that also many restrictions that already pointed out. Not Tuesday. And for that reason is very hard to say. How to do an optimal color so that to the final team ality it's very hard and also is very hard to do benchmark and I will explain you that too.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So these are the main genetic goals of Kroner. This was in the speech. This is one of my students. Color Castillo. So basically you can see that there are three goals. Quality already mentioned this on Thursday. Freshness and quantity. So basically quality. I want the best pages in the web freshness. I want the last content of those pages and quantity is I want all the pages in the web. Of course that's a infinite number, so as big as you can hear have. The search engine crawler have to focus on the 3G, but depending on other applications, maybe you have to focus on only two, for example, a mirroring system is here. A good mirror has to have all the pages, but should be the last copy. Or if you want. To archive. Part of the web. You want the best pages on as many as possible. Doesn't matter if there fresh because you asked. You want to have a snapshot of the web and finally things like quality and freshness here will be focused. Crawling personal crawlers. News will be here. If you want to have the most relevant news should be the best ones, but also should be the fresh ones.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So this will be the idea crawler for power. If you have your connection, this is the Internet connection. So you have a connection of B star bytes per second. I would use bytes per second and it says the bits per second, which is the standard just to make some computations easier. And then you have some time. I suppose you have to crawl these 5 pages. We want to be 5. So this is the best solution. Will be OK if I know the size of each page and I can ask that to the web server. So before crawling a page I can ask for the metadata for web page with the HTTP request. I can assign. Bandwidth to each page such that all of them finish at the same time. 4 perfect partition of my bandwidth and it's finished their star. So bandwidth times time. What is that? If I multiply the units, what happens when I get? The size of the page. So basically this is the size in bytes. Of the page. So here you can see that P2 and P3 of the larger largest pages, and that's why they get more bandwidth, so this will be the optimal thing.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Well, what happened in practice? Something like this, but even worse like this. So here I have all the lines straight, does not turn the web on Internet. But let's assume that we get straight lines. So the first thing I forgot is that P1 and P2 are in the same server, so I have to be polite. That means I cannot request them in parallel. And for example, I have to wait W seconds between these. The ending of 1 request and the next so we don't overload the server. And also forgot that before MP5 were also in the same server. So I have to wait the same amount W to star. Download the P5. So what happened here P1 NTH? I cannot start downloading P2 because I have to be polite but I can. Give more bandwidth to P3 because now we have bandwidth available. So I would like to give all the bandwidth. To that page, but I forgot one thing that I have a lot of bandwidth. Not everybody has the same bandwidth. So this is the maximum bandwidth. That we can get for P3. And this will be. At best, the bandwidth of P3, but if you have a saturated connection between these two points, that will be much lower, so this is the effective maximum bandwidth we get. So we lose. Some capacity. On the thing here. We lose all this because for P2 I cannot have more than this because this is the maximum bandwidth I can give on this server. So then we take the double star instead of the star and basically all this is wasted resources. An here you see why it's NP hard problem, because basically you want to put to assign pieces of this surface to different pages. But you have multiple restrictions and you have conditions that change every second. Because this line is not like this. I mean when you download something what happens? This will be launched like this. And then forever failed. Or server had a problem, so this will be only like very. Like random movements there.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
We'll skip to this. So basically how we will solve this problem, we will have two schedulers. One will be the long term schedule that will prepare packages of pages that we want to crawl. So basically this one will take care about quality, freshness and quantity and decide OK, the next 10,000 pages to crawl are this. And it will send the packet will be a task to the short term scheduler. And the short term scheduler will. Work on the other restriction. Will take care of colitis. OK, how we crawl these 10,000 pages in a polite way? So 10,000 is just a number could be small, smaller could be bigger, but cannot be too small, because then we will. We will make more restrictive. The work of this scale. While this is clearly is the real color, the color will be basically will be a multithreaded parallel system. So that means many process processes in one computer and also using many computers and will bring new pages. Or change it pages to hear this module will parse. The HTML will extract all the text, will send that to the indexer. But also will send a new link. All the links that finds to the feeder and the filter will take care of fending new pages to the manager. So basically the Cedar will keep a database of pages, so some of the pages have been already crawled. On some pages have never been crawl and that's what's called the frontier of the crawler, and basically because you're calling bigger and bigger and bigger, the frontier gets bigger, bigger and bigger. And now the problem is OK, I crawl. A page but already crawled and I want to refresh it. Or I crawl a completely new page, but I said Tuesday the only way to get a new page is to crawl on all page and find a new link.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So this is the basic architecture we will get these slides later for will not. Get into much detail, but here are the main questions. So how have I seen the content? What about spam quote about duplicated URLs? So for example, some size use more than. One name for. Them so you have to basically take away duplicated domains and so on, and this is what I said. Different tier of pages that I want to cry.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
We will need to have two priority queues because basically we have to to have a priority of websites and then a priority of web pages for each site. So basically we are not only discovering websites but in every website where discovering new pages. And the first crawlers were breadth first search. So basically try to cover as many websites as possible and then going deeper. While this works because this is intrinsically polite. Very unpolite will be there first search go to a fact try to correct collect everything there.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So the former problem. We'll be fine. The sequence of page requests. That means page time that optimizes the function of the volume, quality and freshness of the pages. So this function is a hard problem. Has abounded calling time. We don't want to starve. Fulfills politeness and also maximizes the use of local bandwidth. So my bandwidth and also this implies also all my resources, all my computers. Many socially very important must be online so we can use historical knowledge. Or you can use. The knowledge that we could recollect.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
At every moment. So as I said, this was the first artist expressed first. Did this work well? But then some people said. When they started using link analysis OK, Why we don't try to collect the best pages 1st and we can use Pagerank as a first approximation of this and then you have to compute Pagerank for new pages. So you have to come up with a list except on how to compute that based on what you know. However, another approach. If larger site 1st and this comes from the backpack problem the knapsack problem. So basically you want to collect all these pages. But the worst thing that can happen is that you get at the end of your call and your stack with a very large site. So both you get National Science Foundation awful outside. You will have to take a long time because you have to wait. Some seconds for every request, so you don't want to wait to crawl large sites. So it's like when you do a trip, you put first large things in the backpack and then you fill the holes with the small things. So the idea will be OK. Let's try to bring the life size 1st and then every time we have to wait you put a small site. Or a small page. So basically you fill the holes the same idea, yes? Felt that their consequence of the optimization strategy, sorry. As a ristic, yes, can this be? Create inferred from the optimization strategy from the optimization function. OK, first the function itself is a difficult problem to define. And second, I said was is an NP hard problem. So even if you can do that, will be infeasible to use it because will be exponential. So you need to use everything's OK. So these are these are basic 3 three basic strategies for the long term scheduler and then one question is OK. Can we use partial information or can we use historical information? So if you did a crawl in the past, you can use that information to estimate the patron now. This is a bit theoretical yet because in a search engine you cannot say, let's stop calling and let's crawl the web again. Because you can't say OK list. Delete the index and let's start calling the Weberian with. That takes a long time, so basically. Crawling today in search engines, this is a permanent process. You always crawling. But you can use all the history in your call. That's why there's no benchmark for Revelation. Suppose you have two albums. Well, you need to try them with the same page page collection fine. With the same computer. With the same network connection and then with the same Internet. That's the problem. OK, you say, let's try them in parallel with the same computer from the same computer. But maybe one was smart enough and the algorithm already knows what the other is doing and they interfere themselves. So the only way to compare fare fare comparison is to simulate the web, and that's another problem, right? But you can do it. This is in fact this is easier than than trying to use the real Internet. Of course you can always say OK, I will try. Both algorithms, two nights that are similar but you will never find the same Internet because it's not. That's not enough. You need to have all the servers up. You need to have exactly the same Internet connections and so on. And that's never true.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So how we can compare to two crawling algorithms? We can do this, so let's put in the Y axis the fraction of Pagerank collected and we will use here page rank as a measure of quality. Although we know it's not a matter of quality. I'm here, we put the fraction of pages downloaded so if you do random so basically breath first. Will be like a line. If you can do very well will be like this. This will be basically a power law inverted power law. Very few good pages, many many bad pages. OK. And you can do very bad. You can collect the worst pages 1st and then the good ones. A good news. This is also NP hard problem. Bad news, Murphy's law. I'm sure this is easier than this one. So if you have to come up over it sticks to collect the, but why? Because you have more bad pages than good pages?

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So this is some results we had in a paper on 2005. This is using no historical information, so the only thing you can use is what you know in the current crawl. This is the optimal color that knows the page rank in advance, but it knows the page rank from the collection. And your feedback first. Is good. That's why most colors at the beginning work well. Buckling count for buckling counties. Let's scroll the page with more links to that page. Which should be similar to page rank and the answer is not. You get like random. This is partial page rank. You recompute the pagerank every time you get a new page. So it's not only bad, but also takes a long time because you have to be pretty compute Pagerank for every new page. So better to do it in batch. So for example, wait for 10,000 pages and recompute Pagerank. That works much better. And this topic or pick was a proposal from French researchers is some kind of local patron. And they would think is that you need order one time to compute it. Locali for every page. So for every new page is trivial to update and good news that works quite well. If you have any historical information then you can do much better because you know a lot about your collection and you see here that different combinations do quite well and particularly this one which is historical page rank that's very well or peak also that well and so on. In the previous one we had also large size, first is. OK OK too.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So OK, this was simulating the web. So we simulated about. 200,000 websites. But now you have to test this in practice and for random reasons we choose Greece.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, we had a friend that allowed us to use their computers and he wanted to crawl the Greek domain. So these are the real. Life so you feel that are very simple.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
After the previous one, because here we.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
I have some information on the collection and you see the two best our Pagerank together with breadth first or page rank together with large size first. So combination of these things did. Quite good. And you see, this was one computer in four days. You could crawl the whole Greek web, which was a few million. Our page is only one computer.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK, two.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
This first part. You know the web is only 21 years old. The real web? The idea is 22. So depends on who you ask. And there are a couple.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Things that are happening today that I would like to mention, but before just to give you a flavor of something I think is important and people forget. If that there is a crucial relation between search engines, an web design. But not only. Becausw you want your website to appear high on the rankings? That's called search engine optimization. But also be 'cause the only way that the person will find the site. Is that the search engine finds the site? And many sites are not index indexible. So if you have just images, no way to index it. If you have wrong flash, no way to index it. If you have a nice audio presentation, usually not indexable, and so on. So many sites don't know that and don't use HTML. HTML is the best language for the web is the standard for the web. For me, using Flash is like using PowerPoint in the web. OK, if you want there are nicer, but more heavy, slower, less indexible and so on. And why is this important? Because the only way to know what the person wants to do web mining. So if you want to do this ability you reducers and if you want to do web mining you need to have. Users, so this is like a typical software defined loop applied to web design and a crucial thing that usually does not cover if something called findability. And there are two forms abilities for people that then there's a nice book by. My memory. OK, will remember. If the Co author of the Polar Bear Book, the Information Architecture book, one of the one of the authors of that book, the Web Information Architecture book on Find Ability for people, but also find ability for search engines really important.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
OK, may not be in problem. Using more data from users, these are problems today for any new Cameron in the search engine. Business is our users because most of the problems today are solved by what users do. And if you don't have the building, you cannot do so. It's a cold start problem. One problem with more data is privacy. But then if you look at. What people is doing and not. A particular person, but the group of people that is doing the same. Then you can apply contextualization and then you can apply wisdom of crowds to solve most of the problems and you don't run in any.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Officious so the new frontiers, what our problems today. So the real problem today is the front end and user experience, so people will switch search engine because you have a better user experience because we really know how to solve the basic search problem. And also basically people don't wake up every day saying I want to do 10 searches today. Or 8 whatever you for people wake up and say OK, I need to travel to conference and I have to search for my ticket for the train schedule for the hotel for what I had to see there. Which classes I will have not attend and so on, right? Basically 1 interesting problem will be implicit search. You go to your computer and you see exactly what you're thinking. I will read your minds called. That's not possible, but if we know the context, you can approach that. So if we know what you're doing, you can do search for that person so that we call implicit search. So like. A smart assistant. Not like clippy. OK, if I'm talking about smart sisters, mark means. Be really sure that you are doing that and then really help you not bothering you, because if you bother someone some user they will click off.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And then we go from something called information retrieval to information supply. And basically. The need is encoded in what you are doing. And in many problems you can do this. So travel is a typical case. So for them. But if I know a little bit about you, I can propose travel based on people that did things like you.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So. Oh this summer baby roofing so this is Monday. This is today. This is if you are interested in the part of the user checking the web. This tutorial we have done it several times with Dual Mac. How the users impact search engines mean as I said now it's a really large impact of users. Without users you cannot do spelling correction, query assistance, query reformulation and so on. Some conferences that are in this topic. If you want to go to Barcelona where organizing if you are. An two years ago with it I was one of the organizers of of the last years IR, and Peter was also there an with many of the professors. That course. We did this book. So here you will find information on other topics like evaluation. More on web retrieval. More on structure, retrieval and so on. Yes, already published this year. So just appear like 1 two months ago, so it's quite if new. If it's still hot. And of course my book. I left some leaf left with a special price outside. If you are interested in having a copy, this is double size of the previous one, so more content. OK, so let's go to. Now you have questions and then we go to the. When I was supposed to talk. No. Yep. Can you speak louder please? OK. Yes. Locking is not the problem is understanding. The information supply yes. In your kitchen. What do you expect from companies? Turn light. Advertise. Pushing information that search engine delivers information and it would be done. I think that depends on the yeah. So that depends on the context. For example, today depending on your query. Many people don't click on the on the what we call algorithmic results. They click on the Earth because that was, for example, an offer for a ticket airplane. In that case, we can say that I was information for them. So this distinction between information advertising depends on the context, so I will say for some cases they will think it's advertising. In other cases they will think this information. However, the important part is that. Whatever you get should be independent of how much that person is pain, so you should split very careful. What is real advertising from for this not advertisement? Otherwise, then everything falls down because people will not believe in the ranking and you know all the web is about trust. One website that one mistake with you and you never come back is not second, there's no second chance. OK, so let's go to. Any other questions?

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Trying to say. OK, I have only one hour so questions no. OK, let's try to do this in one hour. So this second part is more research oriented, because basically this is the work we have done in the last four years. On trying to think what will be the future architecture of. Search engines OK.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So we'll bring the challenges and then we will go through all what we have done in the four main problems, crawling, indexing, caching and query processing.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So I already showed you this on Tuesday, so this is a typical web search engine. Is the current centralized. Architecture.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And now we want to switch to a distributed architecture. Phone this is. The initial. Architecture we saw in search engine so basically centralized on all users goes to the same sites. Replicated means that basically users are partitioned per site. For you have one in the US1, in Europe, one in Asia. But we want to go to something like this. Completely distributed where users in the same region may go to different servers on the same site, so basically. The freedom if deciding the number of data centers, how to assign users to data centers and how to assign the index or basically data to data centers. So we have to solve all these problems in the architecture. Of course, if you want fault tolerance, you want to have. A few number of data centers, so there are some. Qualitative requirements are difficult to put in a formal problem.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So there was a question about this. Who was the person that asking about peer to peer? OK, this is this is this one the only thing I have from peer to peer, but This is why we are not using peer to peer. So the two other possibilities. Our first was called Federated Search. And that in many books and in many papers will be called very careful distributed web retrieval. This is called a student retrieval because basically you are searching. In many many servers. But I prefer to call a further third, because basically in this case. These are all different databases. There are different providers. So the only thing you know is how to query them, but you don't know too much about the ranking about that internal setting and so on. So basically here there is no explicit data partitioning, so the data is already partitioned. Every size is completely autonomous. Every side uses their own algorithm resources. And they've not indicated network. So this is good when you don't control anything. But of course the search engine can't afford that. Can't afford to say. We don't have control of two or from our search engine. But whatever in peer to peer or peer to peer is the limit of distribution for every computer searches their own data. One problem they are not always connected. So suppose you want something. We get the answer and you find out that we cannot get to the answer because within a computer this power off. So that's a problem. It's very local system and is completely autonomous, but again we need to control everything we have. Quality of service requirements. For example, we have very faint no query can last more than 500 milliseconds. You cannot fulfill this here because you don't control that. So. Music. Overall. Doesn't matter, we have the same problem. Oh, you mean OK, you OK? Doing a favor from 4 different from the search engine. OK, if you are saying that we can solve this search problem. Basically with many many servers all around the world. Wait until then, I will show you that really the optimal if, if not that much. So basically we don't need self service. The optimal will be like 20 and that's not real really peer to peer. So when you start calling it peer to peer. Because basically I can say that anything that interconnects on everything interconnects is like a peer to peer network. But then I would prefer to talk about this is distributed system. In that case. OK, so it depends on how. When do you put change names to this?

[841.0s - 870.0s]
OK, so let me give you an example of the motivation for this, and then I will have to go a little bit fast over the results. But basically you get the concept. Suppose you have 20 billion web pages. If you apply a state of the art inverted index techniques, you will get about 100 terabytes of sorry about say 20 terabytes of. Index, so let's say 1/5 of this, you can put it in 20%. So let's assume that we have 10,000 pieces, each one with four gigabytes, and with about half of the memory for the index. So we put the whole memory or the whole index in memory. So this will imply this will be enough to have this. And then let's assume that we can answer 1000 queries per second. Remember, we're using document partitioning. So each. Server has to answer all the questions, all the queries. So basically what I'm saying is that each server can answer 1000 queries per second in their own index and then we have to merge the 10,000 answers to get the financing. Now suppose you're certain you have 350 million queries per day. That is about 4000 queries per second. Of course, this will be the optimal that the whole day you get the same load. That's not true. So let's suppose you get double load 8000. But we want to have some fault tolerance. What happens if one cluster phase? Let's say the margin is 3, so we have another cluster for fault tolerance. And then we get the factor of 12 for 12 will be 120,000 computers and this is really roughly the size of search engines. Today we're talking about hundreds of thousands of servers. More than many countries. So this will be some cost for let's say 100 million. But then, if you especially now when I said in one month we got 100 million servers or more. Basically, we can get to 1 million computers. This doesn't make sense, right? Especially with the green movement, I mean you have to be ecological use less energy and so on.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Pho. The question is our question. Two in the start was can we have a cheaper distilled assertive system in spite of the network latency? That's the main problem. Internet is slow in practice, low for many things, and the answer is yes. And basically will go through over the main block of this solution. Basically it's about caching is about this protein locality. And it's about something I find very interesting prediction mechanism. Try to find in advance what will happen.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
So I will go 5 in some flight, so this is very important. Is it still the system? Depends on many external factors. That are not independent. One very important factor the programmer. The person that said mistake in one part of the code and that's reflected everywhere in the system. OK. And everything doesn't work and you don't know why. For 4th, when you find the program you want to kill it. So one for design choice can affect performance of everything else and I will give you examples. When this. Dependently affect?

[928.0s - 957.0s]
The system, so these are the challenges. So it will be the same as a search engine. Very good results. Fast, high capacity, dependable and scalable. OK, and the comparison will be. I want to mimic the centralized architecture. So if I have the same answer of the concerning, that's fine. I don't want to do it better, I just want to mimic. That, but if possible, using less computers, then that will mean less money.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
For calling families often calling. The index depends on good calling, so you have a good index, but it's because you have good pages. And if you do distributed calling. There are some advantages you are closer to data. You're closer to to the website. You use less network and then also you do it faster because there's less later.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Just to give an idea about this external factors, these are all the factors in a color. And here are clustered by politeness. Performance. Really, external factors like people and change of the web. Quality metrics and implementation issues. And everything is interconnected.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So we did some experiments on what was the real impact of this TV calling, so we decided to crawl eight countries in eight different regions of the world. From four countries. That were in each one of the regions. So you have Brazil for South America is paying for the American insula and Turkey. For the. That region.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Hope there are no Greeks here. Yes, I'm Turkish, I know. So this is the latency measure latency. And if. The web server, so this is percentage of web service, so you see that this doesn't go to 100 because many web servers are not working, so this this is the fraction of web servers that are not. Answering a reasonable time. So here you see like in Brazil, was the worth .3 milliseconds, then their worth. Uh. Well, I guess you don't see Turkey. OK then. Or this was from Turkey, so from Turkey? Don't see this line this line here. So from Turkey, Turkey with the fast then Spain is in Europe then the US and then Brazil further away because to go to Brazil you have to go through the US. And here's a note I'm again download from Turkey, faster than Spain US. And.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Buffet. Yeah, somehow.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
The data. But then we checked OK if we can do this crawling fast. How we can exploit this? And one thing is to improve relevance. So basically we can call fast good pages from the local context. We can answer better local queries. So for example if you're coming from Turkey we can answer faster and better Turkish queries.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
And then we measured that and the answer was. Positive, so this is the average possible rank one of the measures we use in web search to measure the quality of the results. This is by using a training data. And then these are different checkpoints in the crawl and you see that distributed crawler. Gets better the best answer than all the other centralized. I. Crawlers in each of these four countries.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
And then also we changed the calling order here if more related to the first part of this of today. So basically the best one was a link analysis metrics or kind of page rank URL DEF also work quite well. So basically crawling shallow pages 1st and crawling the pages later. Out of here you see again random random is not so good and decreasing page rank is also not so good. So this shows that yeah, let's do this color calling.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Is better.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
And then we said, OK. Instead of. Using the time we gain to answer faster, let's use the time we gain to do better ranking. So suppose you save 20% of the time because you can answer faster. Then let's give that 20% to the ranking. And this is the result. So basically this is the complexity of the ranking system where you think we were using like a composite machine learning system based on boosted trees. So you can there you can. Say how much computation you want to do before outputing the result, and here you see that the position 20 improve more than 10%. If you use that time to do better ranking. So here even we can say OK, we can do the same thing same time, but we can do better answers.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
So that's about crawling. So let's go to indexing in. The thing is, the main open problem today to use all this. If you don't want to use document partitioning. So how you can do for example? The full index. In linear time in this stupid fashion, maybe that's not possible, but maybe there are some solutions to do it better than today. So 1.1 possibility is to mix the partitioning. For example, to use term partitioning at the server level and to use document partitioning at the data center level. That works. This is also related to collection selection. So collection selection is the problem in Federated Search. Of choosing which databases to use for your query. So for example, now that you're crazy in German, maybe we just need to search in Germany. But sometimes that's very hard to know with only one word, that may mean different things in different languages. But many times you don't need to hit all partitionings and that's also interesting problem.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Web search.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
I would have kept this and go.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
For caching, if I don't have time. So caching caching this is related to the standard search engine, but here we will mix it with the distributed search engine, so I will assume that all of do know what's caching, But basically you use a fast memory to keep things that you need often. And basically you would like to measure the hit rate hit rate means. The probability of finding what you're looking in the cash. So the best will be one or say, 100%. Hit rate an myth will be that don't find it and so on. So when you have a myth. You have to bring the new object to the cache and replace one, and there are many policies to replace one of them by another. Sometimes you may decide not to replace anything because maybe this is not too frequent and I will get back to that in a few minutes.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Phone football if you have a search engine that answers 1000 queries per second like the previous one. So if you have a 30% hit ratio. That will increase the capacity. Of the system to 1400 queries per second. If you don't get it homework. So caching helps to make queries local. Suppose all people in Germany is asking about something new that is in CNN. If you cache CNN here on Akamai, does that then looks like CNN is in Germany. And that's the day of catching. This makes things local and makes things faster.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
So what we can cash in web search while we can cash card results already mentioned that on Tuesday or we can cash. The lists in the inverted index. These are called posting leave. Also, you can do the static caching so you precompute it, or you can use dynamic caching. Do the side online. But basically this will make everything faster. An one problem is how to define how much memory for a static for dynamic, how much memory for query results.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
For posting live. So this will need architecture so you have front end. The query comes if you find the heat in the resource cache. This will go right away to the user if you don't find it then you go to the index cache and then you have to solve the query but will be faster because you have part of the index in memory. If you have the whole index in memory this is better but not always powerful, especially distributed.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Retrieval now for the next experimental show. I will use queries from the UK and I would use the UK web collection that we. Giveaway for the webspam challenge? Together with the people that don't have Milano. And here I have another example of local relation. So in this data set, the correlation between the word distribution in the text and the word distribution in the queries is small if .4. So if I said Tuesday what you write is not what you want, so please write about what you want and the web will be better. Again, here you see that the power law of the text is more biased than the power law of the Quaife.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
So what happens if you do caching of queries of answers? Well, bad news. I felt this on Tuesday 50%. In this example, and this is almost true always true. Are unique queries. So basically we will appear once in your day in your query set. So if you have an infinite cache, the best you can do is 50% hydration. Because they don't repeat. However, if you do index cache. You can do much better because only 5% of the terms are unique, so the infant cash will have a 95% hydration. And here's another paradox. People is writing 50% unique queries. OK. But the unique terms are only 5%, so they're using the same words. But combining them in different ways, so this is this is the diversity of people thinking. Or not thinking.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Off OK so. First we tried the static caching of the index. I had some paper on this, but this is again very similar to a knapsack problem. You want to put in the index cash things that are frequent. But they are not too large. Because if they are too large, they take too much space in the cache. So you want more things that are frequent. Or another way around this is a weighted knapsack problem. Different from the one in crawling, so it's like when you're traveling. So both you have to, there's a fire and you have to run away. You take the smaller things that have more value, money and so. He

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
And then you want to take the small things that have more value and then you use this realistic with the classical realistic. Divide the frequency of their term in the queries by the frequency of the term in the documents. And then this is the value. This is the size. Which I know you least recently used. LF you least frequently use. And also dynamic version of this static.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
And these are the results. This was in 2007 figure paper. Dynamic caching for static caching is really really good. I'm much better than dynamic caching. Even better than the dynamic version of the same artistic. So you see, here is like 20% or more hit rate. So it's good to do static.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
However, we have the problem of combining them. So this is the real curve. This is the hit ratio in. The index cash, remember infinite, will be 95%. This is the in the answers cash. Buffing already to 50% that will be in the. Infinite case. So you would say, OK, let's. Split here, let's say OK, we use very little for the answers on all the rest for the index, while not quite, because the way it is not the same. Taking something from the answer car is really fast and you have the answer ready. Taking something from the index catches lower and you have to still compute part of the answer. So the real solution will be to the right and you have to find what's the optimal point here.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
To the right. So we did some experimental setting using open source collections or anyone can. Duplica

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Our result. We

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Tried many versions of whiskey.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
And if so, we try full evaluation, partial evaluation, compressing the index, non compressing the industry and so on. And these are the result. So for centralized system. Here are the four possibilities. The optimal point using compressed index, which is there one this in practice is that 30% of the memory should be used for caching results. So basically what I'm saying.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
Even in this graph, the solution was here.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
However, in the distributed case, you have to send the query to the remote system that.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
It's a long time. On the solution is exactly the opposite. You have to use 70% of the memory that should be local for the answers and 30% of the memory that should be remote for the index.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
And now your question could be OK. A static caching queries change. How often you have to recompute? The solution, well, not really often because we took window of three weeks, six weeks and 15 weeks for a whole year and compute the correlation between the query distribution of those windows and the correlation was always larger than .995. So what is what is this sign is defined at the background of queries doesn't change and bursty queries. I really small compared to the whole volume of quiff. OK, the volume today is about 1 billion queries per day and maybe birthday query will be. Less than a million in that or maybe 2 million 10,000,000 but still 10,000,000 compared to 1 billion is nothing.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
So you can use this and compute it every month if you want. For the next question, well, OK. We did improve the system, but it still. Within get 100% hit rate and. Quite well. You have to get the idea that just to get the concept exactly, but it's not exactly like this. Caching results basically takes the first part of distribution. Catching the index takes the next part of distribution. But the truth is that really this is not contiguous, because we want to cache small list. So basically this is not really like this, but more less like this. And this is our problem. You have cash pollution. Basically, sometimes. You put in the cache something or you should put because will never be repeated in the next, say hour. Or the next day and then shouldn't be there.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
So the question was. Can we filter out queries that will not be repeated?

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
And we got this. Idea? What we call admission control cash. So this is like the discotheques will be guy in front will look at your face and say no. Yes, you will come back the same. One problem is that we have to do it like the guy in the discotheque without knowing anything about you. Because if we execute the query. Basically, we're doing exactly what we don't want to do. We still need to do a dynamic part because we will have bursty queries, we will do mistakes.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
And for the.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
If. We use two kinds of machine learning, one using only features from the query for basically things like how many words in the query, the length of the words and so on. The FTF of the words in the collection, the IDF of the world in the collection and so. So this will help because basically saying that requires frequent that the term is frequent or not. But we also use this another feature. Let's remember if we have seen that query before or not. So for example, we have seen that query once per day, once per week.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
Cancel. We tie with two different collections, 1 old collection from Alta Vista and also our Yahoo UK UK sample and we compare with the state of the art. That's called EFI but basically split the cash into two parts, one static 80% and one dynamic 20% that uses LRU. I'm.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
We got this results. Basically we improve. The state of the art, like by. 3% here and also 3% here, but Supersense still a lot because that would imply like 5% more throughput in the search engine. Interestingly, here there's an example where the best case is the one that use less memory. We only need to remember 1 bit. If to know if we have in the query before or not, that's the threshold. It's a unique or not.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
Another idea. That people propose is to have a permanent index. So before going to the real index, let's have a small index here. And basically I would have killed most of this because this was a negative result. Sometimes you can publish negative results. But why some people propose this? And this analysis without considering caching? From something, let's take the original distribution and let's see what happens. And in that case works. However, no search engine today will not use caching. What quiet? This is different, sorry.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
I want to HHI, that's a mistake. So basically the people. That probably the 1st paper on this took the regional distribution. This is original distribution. OK, so you see 2 words are more frequent, one word and three 3 words are next, and so on. Caching will take care of almost all these queries and the real. Distribution that hits the search engine is completely different. Here. You feel that the three term queries are more frequent, so these are the misses. So this is an example where if you analyze something alone, you find 1 result. Now when you put it in the whole system to find something completely different. And the result and I this was our intern in our lab.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
I have paper again in 2008. I will skip this.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
One interesting thing is that. This is the term distribution. Before cashing and this is after caching so caching doesn't affect distribution, but does affect the number of words per query. Yep. A simple question, yes. Every word. Um? Forecasting you can consider that different, different if because still to solve that problem you will need to have the list of those two words. But then you need to have also proximity information and then it's more complicated. So one solution could be for example to you could cache frequent toward queries. And in that case you can. You will have that in the in the answer cache. For some of them that United States. That would make sense. So you have to decide for some queries will be one entity, for other queries will be separate entities.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
So we'll give you the result will skip basically how you prune this. You prune the lift and also you can prune the words you get. You get this until IDF instead of whole index. You get only this this by the way, it's a good idea for mobile industries. So if you want to have a real distributed index, this could be a good idea, but not for a sense.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
Search engine. I'm the result with. This doesn't work. Quiet because caching it's already print index. Caching is in some sense of being index. So this doesn't work so less, and that's why I wanted to put this important to consider the interaction between the components. No.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
Locality. So many queries are local. And then one possible definition will be. The answer returns only local documents. But this is very tough definition becausw. People don't click in all the documents, so a more practical definition will be the user clicks only local documents. For example, we have a query that has a lot of spam. This will never be true. Because there will be many remote documents. But because people are smart, they may not click there and then that will become a local query.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
So one problem is to predict if the query is local. So now it's the famous discotheque. But if this contacting Coblence and the guy can decide if you are from covering for not. Just looking at your face. OK, some crazy. Some cases really hard. MMCC, I'm not from here. So this is also interesting in a centralized search engine because there are some search engines that use more than one level of indices. So you can have a fast index that is used most of the time and then a slow index for things that nobody wants. OK, and this is much.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
After and then. Usually the first index is enough. But if the second index is required, the system is less efficient becausw. You have to wait for the second search. Well, one solution is OK, let's search both in parallel. But then that means that all both systems have to answer all queries. That's too expensive, so better. Predict which one you have to search. You have to search only on the 1st index. On this case you have to search in both images and this is similar to a small collection selection problem.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
So the idea was to predict this so. Here preferred attention. So suppose you have a predictor this predictor we want to define all the queries will go to the first index. OK, and here we have a festival that will say. We need the answer from the second index. And that will happen. F. Fraction of the time. OK, so the predictor will predict F and of course will make mistakes. There are two types of mistakes, false negative and false positives. So false positive, are they? Queries that are predicted to need the second index, but when you get here, they doesn't ask for them. So basically you wasted your time searching those. Quiz here. But the result was not dead. What's coming with this? This is extra load in this system, so the first positive makes your system more expensive. OK. So what about the false narrative? The false negatives are the one that the predictor faith. We don't need the second index. But when we get to the first of the fifth or fifth, come on, we need the second index. And then in that case we'll have to do it sequentially. We will tell the predictor that did a mistake for the political learn. Sometimes it's human. You have to tell three times. To learn that joke. And then go through the 2nd system and then you merge the solution so these queries will really really fast this one with false negatives will be slower. So there are three times, so fifth free speech. Green fast blue middle. Purple slow now this could be the remote index. So it's the same problem. So the same solution works for Essentialize index with 25th or a distributed index with a local an remote index.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
Forwarded the analysis. So this is analysis of the tradeoff. Basically, tradeoff is it is worth to spend. So much money. To get this improvement. Like the features that used this prediction. What feature is let you do the prediction without looking at any information? Think I don't have the features here, but I can send you the paper, have all the features we was at 2000. Hey babe. So the feature is basically where the famous before query length works in the query TF in the collection of the query. So basically things that you know in advance but not by executing the query. So by this this paper has an interesting story. I mean 10 with working on this paper, I will explain the problem to the intern. The Internet here have the solution. Now that this is very nice, but Judy understood that we cannot execute the query, we had all the features of the answers. Good thing that we got another paper because we did improve credit score with that for sure. Got two papers, one with the wrong understanding and one with the right understanding. So depending on what you want to do that helps. Yeah. Feature now that you can get results as you type, yes. Well, I don't work in Google. They would not have the expensive index, so this included. It depends, I mean if. Was it the way we do, yeah. Call words already typed with it. In here you have to wait the the everything. But remember basically. I think you're confusing you mean when you say one word you already have the solution for that one word. Yeah, but this is not what you want so. If you have if you type your characters and you get the result for Mrs. Stupid, but. Is it just is easy like bragging like I can do it fast? But it's not what I want, so why you show me that to me? Now would be more interesting to say. Suppose you finish the query and you can get the answer right away. Once the solution is to get the answer you have and I will get back to that and then improve the answer. So because if you use things like. Like so the technology we can you can use today to update dynamically the page. Most people will not notice will change one result right? So you can. You can put the one result and then you can change 2 results and then do it better. So with Ajax Ajax you can do that. That's a problem with things like Ajax. Are there really finding everything? Because the concept of page view doesn't make any sense anymore, so how you define page view with agents? The time you see it, how many things happen in the program? OK, we're not going to the details, but basically we could compute. If the extra cost.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
In this system. Was worth the improvement in time. OK, he was idea.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
On, uh, you can find the paper the all the all the features we use are around 20 features that come from came from the collection on the queries. These will centralized case. So random classifier did point 71 an hour solution of it almost .79. Very high precision, low recall. Here we're using the whole UK. You get collection only English queries, and we divided the index in 30% top page rank and 70% both on Page 1. They threw the case. We use 2 languages, English and Spanish UK ANTILLA and then here we improve more 2.78. Very high recall because the difference of language not so good position.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
But the question is, is this worth it? So what we got in practices, but basically that. If the system A is twice faster than 15 B because that's the first index, but 15-B cost twice the cost of system A because it's much larger. In the centralized case, we could do 29% faster at 20% extra cost. And these two cases even better. 15% answer at .5 extra cost. And in both cases the trade off is worth it. So it will be good for the search engine to do it because what is mean quality means doing faster. It means that you can improve the query throughput because you can answer more queries.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
OK good, I have 15 minutes for the last part. And the last part is, let's put all together. Because they want to see again paper 2009. Um? Just just encourage you. This paper has an interesting story. With a midwife to two conferences was rejected. And then we want that we got the best paper award. So you know reviewers are random. Sorry. Quality work, by the way, I'm talking about good conference, all of them good covers what in really the second rejection had excellent reviews but was rejected. So we knew it was good, but one person did like it. So you know. In CR, Peter knows everything is about evaluation. Someone said no, I don't like the valuation. Doesn't matter how good idea. By the way, the page rank paper was rejected in Figure 2. And then they faded to the web conference. So one of the top ideas of this century. Well, nothing was rejected. So some people that rejected the paper claimed that will keep rejecting that paper because the evaluation was not right. And they're right. Devolution was not good. But sometimes you have to go over your valuation and thinking idea. OK, so. Let's use a star topology. So the search engine. Is in charge of managing all the datacenters. So let's put five datacenters. For in Europe we put Germany in the middle largest collection, largest query load. And the good thing about star is that the worst you can have is 2 hops in the network, so latency is not more than double whatever you get in the network. Of course, this network could be a private network, so we connect our data centers that will be much faster than using the Internet. And of course that's the right solution. Let's say the local queries. Are the same everywhere and is a fraction X. Although this is not true, for example, in some countries local queries are 5%, in other countries are 50% depends on the language depends on where the information is and so on.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
So we'll skip this.

[2523.0s - 2552.0s]
So now we want to compute the value of the search engine, the cost, the real cost. So we did this model where we computed the. Both two things. How much was the bandwidth cost and how much worth there? Energy cost basically the biggest building for a search engine is power. But for their condition, not for the servers.

[2552.0s - 2581.0s]
So we did this model we got. I got function and then we compute what's the optimal number of data centers that you need depending on the ratio of energy unit divided by bandwidth unit. This was in 2007. This was in 2008 for basically the line is moving to the right bandwidth getting cheaper energy is getting more expensive. And here you see the solution. But basically, depending on the number of local queries. The optimal number changes from one to say 12 sites. So that's that's worth. What I meant when you will need to manufacture. So in Europe you will need 12 places. To do this optimally? Now the question is that this depends on the locality. But good news locality. Can be tuned for example caching increase locality.

[2581.0s - 2610.0s]
So we said OK. What we can do to improve locality? And also we need to predict if we need to send the query to remote site. So this prediction scheme very simple. We have a score to know if there are better answers outside the local server and we use caching we use. If it G of replicated frequent documents. So basically if what people is clicking is locali does it like local queries? So everything that they are used a lot in the country will be local. And also we say OK if we cannot improve the system, let's have a factor epsilon of the lock with respect to the centralized system. So basically a factor epsilon of. .3 will mean three of the results of the top 10 can be different, but the other seven should be equal to the centralized system. OK.

[2610.0s - 2639.0s]
And this is the fraction of local queries. So this is the real locality you see is very low, from 10% to less than 5%. Caching improved this to more than 20%. Then caching documents improves another five 6%, and then if we allow less and less answers. From the centralized system, we can go almost to 80%, but this is different search engine. So basically we want to be. We want to be around here. But here we show that basically we can go from 5 to 40% locality by using different techniques to improve locality.

[2639.0s - 2668.0s]
And then too. To get the result. The first is all we got, so this is the power cost. This is the bandwidth cost. You see bandwidth. If nothing is mostly power. I'm here to feel that. With a lack of 30% we can do something cheaper and now we have improved this numbers to have something less than one here. I'm.

[2668.0s - 2697.0s]
His wife, another paper published last year. By another theme in my love that basically show how to improve.

[2697.0s - 2726.0s]
This idea by more than 20%, and then if you improve more than 20% you get these two numbers down to one. 4 left on one.

[2726.0s - 2755.0s]
And what is the time?

[2755.0s - 2784.0s]
So this is the.

[2784.0s - 2813.0s]
Experimental setup of this improvement solution. 1 interesting thing about.

[2813.0s - 2842.0s]
The solution is that uses linear programming. So both of the problem of. Predicting if I have to send the query to remote server but with a local linear programming problem.

[2842.0s - 2871.0s]
And these are the results. Basically we did a real experiment. So right now we have a prototype of this search engine running in four different continents in four different countries. Ann, you see? We can get to under 400 milliseconds. For any query.

[2871.0s - 2900.0s]
So the conclusions of these research still we need to integrate everything. We haven't done. The Machine learning prediction this system so that may improve things. We haven't done. Active learning for that prediction and so on is that caching is crucial, caching makes. Basically, search engines to be really fast and scalable, and that's true for the whole web. If you didn't have a browser cache, if you have a proxy cache. If Akamai, dinophyta, etc. The web will be much slower. So second thing is that with enough locality we can have a cheaper search engine. An many very important use prediction. Tried to get in at Banff. What will happen and then you can prepare to do it better?

[2900.0s - 2929.0s]
So questions. Today I finish early to have time for questions 7 minutes. No questions today. Lunch problem. Could be in the first Part 2. OK. What are your expectations for cross lingual retrieval? Cross lingual, will you talk about that, Peter? Would you talk about cross lingual retrieval? No no. So. I think depends on the context of the third, so most of the time if you bring results in another language, I don't understand that. That is not very helpful. I don't believe in translation for. Depends on the text. Sometimes the translation is readable, sometimes it's like a joke and their examples of both cases. So if you can search in another language and bring translator results in your language, that's fine, but that's a tough problem. It's not only IRS NLP problem. A lot of people in other people tried to work on better translation. And you can see how the statistical translation works. It's still not good enough. I mean depends on how you want. I mean if you want to understand the concept, yes, if you want to have a text that you can copy and put in your paper now. So now in medical system I think would be a very interesting legal system. But the cross domain, not an open domain. Not the person behind you. Police said it's also about findability, and he said the flesh of course, is not significant ability. What is was about pages? I mean, are there more and more techniques coming to make Ajax invisible? Or is it still chop problem search engines? All. So I mean the point of Ajax. Is online indexing also the content will will change every time you interact with the program, so. There is no solution for that. I mean, you cannot really index online because you cannot capture what, so you can't mimic the people behind the screen so that. I would say if you are doing you want to use Ajax, you need to be sure that you are doing that because the interaction needs that, but not because that's a way to show information. The information should be static. Unless the best way to not even the non dynamic if you want to be found have good static information. Now do. Question about the tradeoff between effectiveness, yeah? Doing something there actually I'm interested with your regarding the cost for getting or for retreating distributed information, which brings different entry points for your phone. What to take in your ranking method. Well, the best example is the one that I show for crawling. So basically you can tune these two things. How much time you spend and how much affecting this. You get an we have machine learning techniques where you can do that. For that you need to have machine learning technique where you can say if top computation and you get some result. Because if something needs to look kind of get that. President and how you measure the cost. Or their real cost. Oh in the third turn into Cafe phone my phone. My example basically is down to power, so that's easy to mention to measure and. And there is the worst. I think 2 papers in the last figure, like one month ago on Power Aware search. That's important in mobile two, so if you have done your battery battery problem, maybe you want to search faster before your battery goes out. Atlanta Energy customer and. Retrieve the time. Yes, yeah. With your time, I think most people is happy with that. Now, if things get really bad because you have to scale and then you get to want a second and third time, then you will have to work on because basically people respect something that is what they really get every day. So maybe we were faster in the in the in the beginning you would expect even that. So and also your own patience is a cultural thing, so depends on the country you want things faster or not. Yeah. Oh God, I need to content pages like PHP, other index everybody. The search engine of. Well, it depends. If they are there they can be generated through link, yes, but but I said on Tuesday you don't want to generate all possible dynamic pages if you generate for example, four or five levels deep, that's good enough. Now the other partner will be OK. Can we extract all the information from the farms? While you will get dynamic pages and answer? I guess we can from many sites and also we can get agreements with sites to get like a static version of that database to be able to find which will be the URL that generates that dynamic page and that case will be faster and better for everybody. Yep. There's more information that is web based, like audio faor like Cyclops. So is this something that always liberating and pretty straight is? But then there's some risks associated to that, that that you might actually be falling into currently, like the fact that this information is not really available. Baby, but if it's in the web, why is not really available? For example, a page that would be mentioned by Cikot, but it would be wrong you stupid mentioned by itself, OK. Well, you have to handle all these cases because this is the one cases of thousands of. Inconsistencies that you find in the web by crawlers by in effect and so on. But I think the important part of your question is for somebody who was the 1st to call RDF microformats. Basically the languages of semantic web and we're using that to create like. A partial structural view of the world, and then we'll combine current techniques with semantic search techniques to improve some queries. You can't improve all queries, but if you know the context, if you know the task, you can do much better and then you will get more. This one boxes result. So where you have the 1st result is something that is already from a template that is tailored to the task that you are trying to solve, like traveling or like man exchange or. Computation so. Yeah, I think that's the direction. OK. Last one. The most. Events are fun. Searching for a current event, or is it combined into the. There was also a paper that says if I'm searching for a recent event, is better sometimes use that result search with the last tweet and not to go to the surgeon drive. So how can you combine these things? Yeah, well one thing is to do faceted search so and you see in some search engines that you can say give me only news, give me only Twitter and so on. That's the easy solution. And much harder is to combine the rankings because basically if so, instead of trying to combine the ranking will say let's try to find the intention of the ranking and in that case I will have only two intentions. Is your query temporal aware or not? And we are quite simple aware I should give first Twitter results or news results and then the rest and this will be solution. So we had a survey on temporal information retrieval. In a workshop in the last DAB conference with some other people. You can check there. OK. Coffee, break them and both.
