I view the semantic web as a great opportunity to provide new functionality for E. Science in general for bio medicine in particular, which is as close said as my primary area of work. And suddenly we had small focused meetings. Basically the failure of the expert systems industry basically provided impetus for us to understand why. So if I will, I think some of the things we learned was that rules don't scale when building intelligent systems, and I know that it's going to feel controversial to some of you that cognitive tracked ability matters. If you will intelligent behavior or some kind of advice. The rules would be interpreted by the inference engine. It had put together about 80,000 orders. Is going on the web today. Ways of trying to make rule based representations more tractable to figure out how to come up with abstractions that will combine rules or relate rules to one another. In 1986, Winograd and Flores came up with him out with a book, which probably was more influential than anything else in changing the attitudes of people in the Knowledge Act. Lately it's been 26 years since the very first bath Knowledge Acquisition Workshop. Given the state of some of the people in those photos, few of us remember actually what was going on, but. The first web server in North America was installed at Stanford at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Laboratory, and it's been 12 years since that Dog Stroll seminar that Nigel alluded to as well, which I think brought many of the AI people together to think about what the semantic web would be like and also just incidentally, I keep on being reminded that 2012 is the end of the Mayan. Grattan, Flores were very clear, saying that we can we communicate in print media. Who has his or her own copy of the inference engine? Who applies that inference engine to the published propositions in the rule based or knowledge base and derives some information out of it? Question 30 is case 168 a compromised host? No, how many days for how many days has case 168 had abnormal neurologic signs? There was first a rule that said if there are two positive cultures that grow from us sterile, a site that is ordinarily non sterile, then the culture is significant. New rule get added to the knowledge base if an infection. Actually the same and Clancy points out very clearly that the meaning of the symbol depends on the rules that conclude values for those symbols and what people understand about the rules that the symbols themselves don't have a grounded meaning. Significant could mean that a culture was taken from a site that what was ordinarily non sterile, and so it ought to be taken seriously or causing a significant culture was one that ought to be treated and his trip with his treatment was simple so that even though the wasn't clear whether it was really an infection there you would call the culture significant because it was not a big deal to offer therapy. So we communicate in knowledge media in the old fashioned way. When we have one inference engine, one in one rule base or one knowledge base with some other kind, and we're dealing with a stand alone system. So on the web we have a situation where anybody can say anything about anything where users need to understand what agents do with what resources they do it. It was a different kind of IAI. Quantitatively, we just thought about the size of the web and the way the web is growing. The idea of having distributed knowledge anywhere in the world, and this enormous problem solving space at the web offered. The web was a place where anybody can say anything about anything. When you go to the Obo Foundry website, actually you'll see what the Obo foundry principles are. They want some sort of shared syntax and they're willing to accept OBO format or OWL. They want explicit versioning they want delineated delineated content, textual definitions of terms in addition to perhaps logical definitions, they want the ontology to abide by a set of predefined relations. So what does it mean for us if there's no settled science? I think it's a feature that the web allows us to represent alternative theories, and those alternative theories can be very important for us. So on the web, I think we really need to encourage the use of standard ontologies whenever we can. It was a vision of personalized agents that could book flights that could shop for clothes that could manage our smart houses that could floss our teeth. So what have we learned from the winner? Leukopenia means the patient is immuno suppressed immuno suppressed means there are compromised host. Patient has pseudomonas. Not very exciting application actually in retrospect, but one which could be understood in terms of juristic classification with feature abstraction, heuristic match and solution refinement, and what the juristic classification approach did, was suddenly get everybody excited about thinking not about rules, not about frames, not about individual knowledge representation pieces, but about about patterns of reasoning and how we could use those patterns of reasoning to build systems, and we called. Classic person to classic book an basically these problem solving methods provided reusable building blocks not only for thinking about problem solving for so not only for modeling problems but also for actually building code that could implement juristic classification we could implement. A whole bunch of problem solving methods that the community spent most of the 90s trying to understand fault diagnosis, constraint satisfaction planning, design scheduling, sequence alignment and so on. And maybe there was a problem solving method like classification that could do the sorting of the closed task pretty well and the idea would be that for anything that you wanted to automate. A future work, but frankly, I don't think there's really much need for that. There's not much call for that because really all the tricky modeling is taking place within the web services. On the web of beginning to articulate ontology design patterns and it's really exciting to see hold workshops and conferences in this area were beginning to see the choreography and orchestration of web services. So I think in the last AI winter, if you will, we learned a lot of things. What is Gartner actually say about us? Maybe someone in this room actually had the money to buy their report, in which case you may be able to provide more insight, but I think it's very interesting to look how they categorize web technologies, and some of them they viewed as being on the rise Son at the peak, including the semantic Web when I don't understand semantic web, is at the peak, an Web 3.0 is sliding into the troft. Obviously there's enormous uptake of semantic technology in the industrial center and industrial sector. Certainly the the buzz, but RDF certainly the buzz about schema.org, which is absolutely incredible and people were providing demos of all kinds of great applications, which I think was a real shot in the arm for all of us who do worry about it getting a little bit colder out there.