[0.0s - 29.0s]
This is really a really tremendous honor to be here. I have a lot that I like to talk about this morning. Alot looking forward and a lot looking backward is close suggested when ABI called me in the summer saying what do you want to talk about in five months? I wasn't sure at the time except it was the end of June and it was already the hottest summer on record in the United States and the weed in the corn crops were dying and long before this massive storm hit the Eastern seaboard last week or the week before it was clear that certainly climate change would be on everyone's mind like I guess except for those of the. Presidential candidates and I was also thinking a lot about the AI winter. At least the most recent AI winter, which for me was 25 years ago when students are asking me about it, and I've certainly felt like, tell us about the war Daddy. That there was a new generation of graduate students who had not really lived through some of the events that I had when I was primarily doing AI, and that I think actually bear significantly on the work that we do in the semantic web. So what I want to do this morning is do a little bit of retrospective discussion of where the field has come from, particularly in its semantic technology history. Talk a little bit about. I think those conferences that Nigel alluded to last night during his after dinner speech, which I think cemented a lot of our thought. About intelligent systems that actually bears a lot on the semantic web and then talk about some of the predictions that people have made about this magic web and how we can learn not only from those predictions, but also from some of the previous work that's been done in intelligent systems. So first.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
By way of Full disclosure, you should know from my background I'm primarily approaching this work from an engineering perspective. I don't pretend to be a philosopher or logician. I view the semantic web as a great opportunity to provide new functionality for E. Science in general for bio medicine in particular, which is as close said as my primary area of work. And I think like a lot of people in this room, I was heavily involved in standalone AI systems, and for me the semantic web offered all kinds of opportunities.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
12 years ago was an opportunity to go to Sardinia, which was kind of interesting and I think some something in some sense now that we are entering the second decade of ISWC conferences, it's really a good time for retrospective analysis.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And at the same time, there's a lot of numerology. By 2012 it's been brought to my attention. Lately it's been 26 years since the very first bath Knowledge Acquisition Workshop. Nigel showed you some photos of some old Banff workshops. Given the state of some of the people in those photos, few of us remember actually what was going on, but. I think those workshops for a very important foundation for work in artificial intelligence as related to expert systems 25 years ago was the first European Knowledge Acquisition Workshop 25 years ago. Also was the onset of the AI winter, which I alluded to earlier, and I think first of all I should say before doing anything else I should make a plug for the special issue of the International Journal of Human Computer Studies that Enrico Motta edits, Enrico is putting together a special issue which I believe should be a new stand soon. Which will be a retrospective analysis of the Banff workshop San, the legacy of the of those activities. I will say with great pride at least, this is what Stanford Stanford believes that 20 years ago. The first web server in North America was installed at Stanford at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Laboratory, and it's been 12 years since that Dog Stroll seminar that Nigel alluded to as well, which I think brought many of the AI people together to think about what the semantic web would be like and also just incidentally, I keep on being reminded that 2012 is the end of the Mayan. Calendar, so again, I'm really delighted that Avi asked me to give this talk this year.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So the semantic web really for those of us who were doing AI research at the time was this incredible opportunity. It was a different kind of IAI. Quantitatively, we just thought about the size of the web and the way the web is growing. The idea of having distributed knowledge anywhere in the world, and this enormous problem solving space at the web offered. And qualitatively it was quite different from what we were used to as well. The web was a place where anybody can say anything about anything. It's a place where anyone can. Access any resource at anytime and we really, earnestly believed that the methods that we were applying to intelligent systems at that time 25 years ago. Well, 2012 years ago would have obvious ramifications as we began to transition to this new kind of knowledge medium, and then many of us were captivated. I hate to say.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
By the Scientific American article, which in many ways to find our field an which we still site probably more than any other semantic web publications since, but at the same time the kind of vision that Tim and Jim and Aurora laid out was really quite remarkable. It was a vision of personalized agents that could book flights that could shop for clothes that could manage our smart houses that could floss our teeth. An those agents have not quite arrived yet, at least the teeth flossing agents and I think one of the things is is we're thinking about is the way we thought about where we were going to 12 years ago and where we are now and would immediately comes to mind is something which I thought was a joke until I realized that the Gartner Consulting Group actually uses as the basis of actually the.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Quite a lot of money and it's it consultation practice which is their research hype cycle, which I imagine many of you have seen before. But this provides the basis by which Gartner summarizes for its clients where they think new technologies are going, and you can see that there is the upslope of the technology trigger and the peak of inflated expectations that are off of disillusionment. The Slope of Enlightenment in the plateau of Productivity I. I'm not exactly sure where we are as far as the semantic web is concerned, and I'll get back to that. Toward the end of the talk. But when I say first is that as I thought about the Scientific American article, and as I thought about Gartner's analysis of ITI couldn't help but think about where we had gone in AI.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So back in the early 80s there was more hype than you could ever imagine. I business week, Forbes all the lay press. We're sort of talking about how the expert systems technology that was coming out of industrial laboratories that it originally derived from academic laboratories was soon going to become such a common commodity that it would change the way we live in the world. That every process that involved any kind of knowledge would all be automated be accelerated would be obviously aided by the kinds of technologies that. The artificial intelligence community was promoting at the time and to give you a sense of what that hype was like. My most salient memory as a graduate student.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Was going to HK 85 in Los Angeles which was billed as the largest event in Los Angeles since the Ellee Olympics of 1984. Which was an event that had some scientific content, but people really don't remember the science that was discussed there, mainly there.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
For the trade show. This is not the trade show for Chicago 85. This is the trade show for the Consumer Electronics Show, but it's about the same order of magnitude. And I remember being bused to Beverly Hills, where Intel Corp had a outpost on Rodeo Dr serving these graduate students with no money to spend at all. All kinds of ice cream treats and everything to just bring it, bring up the idea of artificial intelligence and expert systems and how it was going to change the world and try it obviously to to change the opinions of people who might be making decisions at the time. Doug Lennick claims he gave a tutorial and earn enough to honor honorarium to buy a new sports car. I don't deny that and I asked him to tell me a Lil.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
About triple AI's initial earnings. Because of these conferences and he showed me this. This graph which shows triple AI founding itself from our 1980 and basically earning over $1,000,000 in just five years on the basis of money coming in from his conferences. And it was just this was just an unbelievably heavy time both to be in Graduate School and also to be in the intelligent systems industry, which was sort of taking over Silicon Valley at the time. And then we all know what happened next.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
I actually don't have the numbers for triple AI. After all of this, I don't know exactly how fast decline was, but a multimillion dollar industry building list machines and software for building expert systems just died, and this was the AI winter, of which we now speak. Now obviously those industries thought the winter was a time of enormous gloom, but I think for those of us in academia, it was actually. A good thing.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
It was a good thing, because actually none of us wanted to go to academic meetings that looked like the Consumer Electronics Show. And suddenly we had small focused meetings. Basically the failure of the expert systems industry basically provided impetus for us to understand why. And it opened up a lot of opportunities for smaller scale conferences and workshops where two things were going on, one the vision of a I had not disappeared, and I think all of us who participated in those workshops really were latched on to the possibility of the promise of artificial intelligence and at the same time being able to look out and see a floundering expert systems industry gave us a lot of pressure to try to understand and academic sense. Why all this was happening, and probably the greatest venue. That led to a confluence of people coming to talk about these ideas.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Is Banff where Brian Gaines and John Boos originally created a workshop that brought together a lot of the people who are in this room to talk about problems of the knowledge based systems industry and why it was so difficult to build intelligence into machines? And I think a lot of the things that have come out of the Banff workshop influenced the work that we do here in the semantic web community, and I think that's really good. I think there are also a lot of lessons that were learned through the bath workshops and the equal workshops in the other kinds of. Settings that are focused primarily on standalone intelligent systems that don't make its way into our discourse here. What I'd like to do this morning is to talk a little bit about some of the things that we I think learned from the standalone AI experience that may bear on the way we think about the semantic web. And I will use this opportunity to sort of summarized.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
I think we're some of the salient things that we learned during that era. I think this is these are important things to talk about because I think they bear directly on the semantic web. There are also things that we tend not to talk about very much in our community, and I think it would be very helpful if you will to let me tell you what did happen in the war Daddy and review some of the things that were salient during the 1990s that I think clearly bear in our practice in the current Millennium. So if I will, I think some of the things we learned was that rules don't scale when building intelligent systems, and I know that it's going to feel controversial to some of you that cognitive tracked ability matters. That probably sounds like a platitude, but it's a real thing, meaning is situated and about to open up a can of worms there modeling problem solving. We know is very hard and I think something that we all can agree on, which I think really emerged from the work that was done in the K workshops, is that reusable patterns are really a good thing and I think what really unites the science that we do. Is trying to understand the abstractions that are important for the semantic web for artificial intelligence. Basically from managing complexity in ways which I think bear out significantly in the kind of work that goes on in this community. Now.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Well, let me back up a little bit. For those of you who are underage 25 an expert system as it was construed at that at the time of the original AI winter. If you will was viewed as having two parts and had knowledge base, which was typically a rulebase soul, bunch of rules that were meant to change together and an inference engine which most of the time was a rule interpreter which was able to interpret those rules, chain them together and generate. If you will intelligent behavior or some kind of advice. So generally when people were building these expert systems, they reviewed this consultation systems where you would come to the system with the problem you would describe the problem for the system. The rules would be interpreted by the inference engine. In outlook comes from recommendation and I'm realizing I don't have a pointer up here, so I will just take you late madly throughout this talk. Probably the most exciting advent in the expert systems world occurs around 19.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
80 when John McDermott created a system called R1. R1 was called such because John said that last year I didn't know what a knowledge based system. What about a knowledge engineer was? And now I are one. An R1 was initially installed at Digital Equipment Corporation, which basically paid for it, so some of you may remember a company called Digital Equipment Corporation, which also had the goal of trying to be able to come up with what was then state of the art computer systems which act like all the computer system at the time. Thanks, Ben, had to be constructed by hand. The idea of a computer that doesn't come out of the box is also kind of frustrating or difficult to think about. For some of us. But every time a salesman placed an order, there will be a list of parts an what are one would do would be to take that list, list of parts and figure out how to assemble them on the back plane of the computer. Figure out how to minimize the amount of cabling trying to put things near each other that needed to be near each other, and to make the best kind of arrangement that would then be a one of a kind manufacturer for the for the end customer. By 1986 two things happened. The system was called ex Con because Jack felt funny about the name R1 and it had really been enormously successful. It had put together about 80,000 orders. But it was beginning to show problems and in.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
John McDermott famous papers. He drew the number of rules in ex con overtime showing good news as you see, after a few years they were able to actually greatly reduce the number of rules as they understood abstractions that could allow the rules to be brought together and in work intelligent ways. But eventually the number of rules went off the chart as more and more systems were added and the number of rules never seemed to ask him to. If they just continue to increase and by the time the whole system was put out to pasture. It was unmaintainable because it was really difficult for the deck engineers to understand how rules related to one another, and they were basically stymied because whenever they added a new rule, they somehow it caused all kinds of unintended side effects, and all of the previous rules had to be reconsidered, and so I think our one is a good example of extremely successful commercial application that ultimately died because it became too complicated.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
I think in the academic circles, we certainly point to my Sen Ted Shortliffe's thesis from 1970s that was able to diagnose and make recommendations for treating infectious diseases, and my son was enormously complicated. My son was a soup of some 400 or 500 rules and Bill Clancy basically made his career showing all the things that were wrong with mice, and because although it was well maintained initially and had great recommendations to offer when it was a relatively small self contained system. As it grew, it became increasingly unmanageable and I'd like to think that we've learned from all of that. But then when I see.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Is going on the web today. I kind of grimace and I guess in some sense to Persia team feels partially responsible, but I see people creating these enormous rule bases and this is not meant to be read because I don't think anybody can read it when poking his eyes directly at the monitor, but we see increasing use of rules on the semantic web in ways which are very reminiscent for the explosion of rules and the kinds of intelligence systems that people were building in the 1970s and 1980s. I think some of the rules of some of the things that we learned about that experience clearly have to. Transfer over to us because we know how important rules are in the semantic web.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Layer cake. I want to pause and just I I put this slide in 'cause I know that I'm required to show it. So I want you all to soak it in. This is actually another required slide for all semantic Web talks and I'll get to that slide a little bit later in the talk. But fundamentally I think we have to really think carefully about how we use rules on the semantic web and to try to learn some of the lessons of the past 25 years in that area.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
We talked about rules. I think the other major lesson that came out of the AI experience was really not the importance of computational tractability, which all of us take for granted. But this notion of cognitive training tracked ability, and the idea of what we do really matters for people. When Daphne Kohler first came to Stanford, I asked her for an example of one of the most exciting belief networks that she had created, and she sent me this law.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
I'd. And I think we we are certainly in in the habit of extolling complexity, because I think many of us believe that one of our advantages and be able to work with the medium is malleable and is flexible and extensible as the computer is that allows us to create very large data structures and to perform really exciting inference on these large data structures. But at the same time, we have to remember that the things that we create are not one offs, they persist. And they need to be maintained overtime and I think everything that we create on the semantic web from well from.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Rules which obviously need to be understood not only in terms of the isolated rules, but the. Patterns with which rules are invoked are really critical to be able being able to build the kinds of enduring systems that are really part of our work. I mean, men.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Give us are working on. Ways of trying to make rule based representations more tractable to figure out how to come up with abstractions that will combine rules or relate rules to one another. And I think some of the visualization work that is being done in this community is fantastic. I think we need a lot more of it because I think there's going to be a tendency for our systems to grow in size, both in terms of the number of entities and in terms of their relationships, and we need ways by which developers and users and maintainers can all have a better handle on what's going on. I think one of the things that we like to do, for example, is to show the link data.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Cloud this is the other required slide for my talk by the way. And we look at it in terms of the achievement that we've been able to have by linking various datasets together and the promise that is going to happen by being able to extend these various data sources to one another. But ultimately our problem is going to be understanding what's out there. Being able to take advantage of what's out there, and I think for that we're going to need better tools that will allow us to visualize and understand those relationships. And I realize this is already an important area of work in this community, but I'm going to emphasize it. I think we need a lot more of it. We need this because unfortunately we sometimes have a tendency to err on the side of completeness or power rather than on simplicity, and I think in my own experience, working in the biomedical community, I feel really burned by this in a way because at a time when I was hoping the biomedical community would come together, recognizing the importance of semantic Web standards, I can point to the.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Of the open biomedical ontologies community, which initially decided we don't need that any of that fancy computer science, all we need is a directed acyclic graph, and they began to build ontologies. Some of the most important ontologies in bio medicine using a rather impoverished representation, which actually in it's very earliest forms neither had a semantics Nora syntax. It took several years actually for there to be a BNF, and I think over the years. The open biomedical ontologies community has gradually moved into. In a direction where they recognize the importance of standards where what is now what used to be called DAG format is now called OBO format and now looks almost exactly like Al. I think progress has been has been made, but I think it's important to recognize how many of my colleagues were turned off when they were frightened at the complexity of the standards that we were trying to promote. Anne, I think I know where this rooms need needs me to wax on the issue related to schema.org, I think there's a real issue in terms of being able to promote what we do in ways which convince people that is going to be tractable and useful.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So I've mentioned rules I've mentioned mentioned cognitive intractability. Let me talk about the situated nature, nature of knowledge and symbols. I'm not going to try to solve the symbol grounding problem today, but I think it's really important to emphasize how much the Knowledge acquisition community has wrestled with these problems and how I think we need to spend redoubled effort on trying to address them.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So if you will, again the traditional knowledge based system is viewed as this knowledge base, typically rules or some other propositional representation and some inference engine that operates on those rules. And one thing to emphasize is that typically we may spend a lot of time trying to have a very precise formal semantics for what's in that knowledge base, and then ultimately the inference engine sort of operates on those symbols and all of our formality goes away or be left with an operational semantics such that the rule base or whatever is in that knowledge based means whatever the inference engine says as it. Performs his procedures. What comes out is intelligent behavior. But the thing to emphasize is that for users to make sense of that intelligent behavior, they have to be able to do more than simply interact with the computer. They have to be able to understand not only the symbols in that knowledge base, but how those symbols gets translated into a problem solving activity, something that we don't really think about explicitly, something which is of concern because most people who develop intelligent systems or semantic web applications. For that matter, are not thinking about that in any direct way. In 1986, Winograd and Flores came up with him out with a book, which probably was more influential than anything else in changing the attitudes of people in the Knowledge Act.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Mission, Community and Winograd, and that was not the book No. Winograd and Flores made the statement that when we look at how people interact with computers, we should be thinking about how people interact with any kind of a system that generates symbols, and they went back to the idea of hermeneutics, the study of ancient manuscripts, and the idea that one really can't understand ancient manuscripts without really studying the context in which the symbols are represented. The ways in which sentence is relate to one another. Basically, the well understood mechanisms by which scholars try to. Decipher old texts, and by that matter, the same way you and I try to decipher, say, the novels and other kinds of informal literature that we read every time we are reading text. We're not just looking at sentences, but trying to understand why the author made that particular word choice while the author chose not to say something. For example, an aswer second. Guessing why the author said things were learning what it is that the author is trying to communicate, and when.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Grattan, Flores were very clear, saying that we can we communicate in print media. We have some sort of author who has a conceptualization of what he or she wants to communicate, who puts it down in text, and when we read that published text, we're doing more than just looking at the natural language as intelligent agents. We're trying to reconstru in our heads what it is that the author had in his head when those symbols were selected, and that the only way to be certain about the semantics of what's in printed text is that there be at least a moderate convergence. Between the way the reader conceptualise is the problem and the way the author conceptualise is the problem, and if that convergence doesn't work well, that may be why you don't like Stephen King novels, or I don't like Agatha Christie Mysteries because we may not be able to achieve that kind of harmony and understanding the conceptualisation of the author to be able to get the semantics that really are intended.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Well, the argument was made and still is made that that principle still applies when we build intelligent systems that when someone authors an intelligent system, we're building some sort of a knowledge base that's based on our conceptualisation of what knowledge needs to be represented and how that knowledge is going to be used and that the developer of an intelligent system has his or her own copy of the inference engine that operates on that knowledge base. And when we publish in this kind of a medium, we communicate by transferring our knowledge base to a recipient. Who has his or her own copy of the inference engine? Who applies that inference engine to the published propositions in the rule based or knowledge base and derives some information out of it? But the important thing that comes along with this idea is that the semantics of the terms with which the user has to deal are derived from the conceptualisation of the author of the knowledge base who created the propositions in that knowledge base in the 1st place. And this comes to bear very easily when we look at some. Now let's look at the Meissen experts.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
It was a classic example. So here's a very small transcript of mice and an what happened in mice and is this is 1970. A doctor would be at a teletype computer. Would ask a question. The doctor would provide an answer. We see. Question 30 is case 168 a compromised host? No, how many days for how many days has case 168 had abnormal neurologic signs? One for how many days has case 168 had neurological symptoms? 9 his case 168 had recurrent evidence of tender or in large salivary glands. User says why in this situation saying why is like saying WTF it's like. I have no idea. I have no idea why you're asking me this question. What did you really mean there? Now a couple things to point out. the Y facility in my son is really important because in order to understand symbols like evidence of tender enlarged salivary glands, the user may actually have to actually see the rule that concludes that value in order to understand why that question is being asked. So the. In this case, although Mycin touted itself as having enormously powerful explanation facilities, what was really happening here whenever a user said why was saying, I don't understand your symbols. Show me the knowledge base so I can understand what the semantics of those symbols actually are. An other questions which may not get the the Why answer up here are really issues where show issues where the semantics are really derived from that mutual understanding between the developer and the user. What it means to have abnormal neurologic signs is something. That the developer of the system takes for granted the user will be able to understand what is a compromised host is something that again is something that the developer has in mind and the user has in mind and allows the question to get answered. In this case, we know that a compromised host is a really sick patient who may have an abnormal immune system, may be an alcoholic, may have other factors which make them particularly susceptible to disease. I'm guessing some of you in this room looked at the term compromised host and thought that a compromised host with some kind of a server that had been hacked. Or compromise host was the organizer of a dinner party who got particularly drunk. I mean, compromised host coming lots of things and for the purposes of interacting with this expert system, not only do we have to know the sense of compromise host that was intended by the developer of the system, we have to know how compromised would the system be asking me whether the patient was a compromised host. If the degree of compromise was minimal, if it was a cough that was a drink every now and then, and those kinds of questions are not explicit in the transcript, but are there because there's a socially shared understanding? Of what that symbol means. A shared understanding between the developer and the user, which is not explicit in the dialogue or any part of the rule base that you can point to.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
John McDermott claimed the same thing happened in our one that as more and more computers were added to the ER, one knowledge base, the knowledge base grew and the exact meaning of different parts was different because the various part in a PDP 11 might be slightly different from a part in of acts and their rules might refer to that symbol by the same thing and again is an example of where the meaning is has to be socially construed and when it's not made explicit people can get into trouble.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Bill Clancy like to get excited about pointing out minor problems in mice and he talked about rules that include the value of a parameter called significant. There was first a rule that said if there are two positive cultures that grow from us sterile, a site that is ordinarily non sterile, then the culture is significant. If you have a site which ordinarily has some bacteria growing in it, like your gut or your nose, and you have a culture that's one culture. This positive, as probably a contaminant doesn't mean much. You get 2. Maybe that means a lot more. New rule get added to the knowledge base if an infection. If this infection that requires therapy and it's cystitis and pyuria or white cells in the urine is not present in the culture is significant. Well, this is a statement. This completely different from the original 1, where suddenly the term significant takes on a new meaning, meaning the absence of white cells in the in the. In the case of cystitis, suddenly the term has a new meeting. Anytime a user previously said that a culture was significant, the answer to that question may be different now that a new rule has been added to the knowledge base, even though the symbol is exam.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Actually the same and Clancy points out very clearly that the meaning of the symbol depends on the rules that conclude values for those symbols and what people understand about the rules that the symbols themselves don't have a grounded meaning. But the meaning can be determined only by examining the rules in context and understanding how the knowledge that they represent gets communicated and how people interpret the meanings of those rules. So in the case of Meissen.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Sick. There were a lot of rules that communicated information about the idea of a culture being significant. Significant could mean that a culture was taken from a site that what was ordinarily non sterile, and so it ought to be taken seriously or causing a significant culture was one that ought to be treated and his trip with his treatment was simple so that even though the wasn't clear whether it was really an infection there you would call the culture significant because it was not a big deal to offer therapy. And so we would just treat anyway, and then eventually the worst significant meant you wanted to treat because the patient was really, really really sick. And so even though you had no clue what was going on, this is better be treated as significant with patient will have a chance. Here is a whole slew of different interpretations which enter the knowledge base overtime. The symbol remained absolutely the same, and yet users, in order to answer the question is this culture significant? Would have to have some understanding of what the developers of the system meant. When that term was used. The good news is my son was an enormously successful system and although we can spend a lot of time quibbling about what a term like significant really means and wonder whether my son really got the answers right. If people didn't understand what that term meant. The bottom line is that although the semantics were socially construed and that although the semantics were approximate, the system did pretty well and I think one of the lessons that we're going to have this morning is that we should not get hung up over the fact that often our semantics are not terribly precise, but we can actually do very well even with that degree of imprecision.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So we communicate in knowledge media in the old fashioned way. When we have one inference engine, one in one rule base or one knowledge base with some other kind, and we're dealing with a stand alone system. We can see very clearly that inner operation with the system requires us to be able to decide as users. What did the developers really mean when they decided to create something in the knowledge base that would cause a system to ask me this question? And I'm going to answer that question, not on the basis of how I might answer that question in a vernacular dialogue, but on the basis of what I believe was meant by the question and why the developers of the system might be asking me the question so that I can make sure that the knowledge base will will interpret it properly, and that is something that we eventually took for granted in the knowledge based systems community. And it's not something that we take for granted on the semantic Web, and indeed when I think about communication on the semantic web. I'm.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
I'm not sure what to think. Because we're talking about a world where anybody can say anything about anything where there will be multiple authors, an multiple conceptualizations creating multiple resources that can be addressed by multiple agents, and I think we're going is really going to be an important experiment for us as we develop the kinds of agents that were forced for someone in the original Scientific American article how we're going to be able to make sure that our agents communicate with users in a way which allows him to. Makes the right constructions of what those symbols mean, and I think that's really going to be an interesting and important challenge for the for the web community, and I think more important, it will set up challenges of having us perform even better evaluations of our work, because I think in many cases, as was the case in mice, and although the semantics may not be precise, the actual effects on performance may not.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Feel that great. So on the web we have a situation where anybody can say anything about anything where users need to understand what agents do with what resources they do it. What are the socially agreed upon meanings of those terms and unfortunately you are eyes alone are not going to fix the semantics of the of the symbols which are agents are going to need to to operate. Just because a term is referenced by Uri doesn't solve the problem of telling us what was meant by the user. Who mentioned that you are I in the 1st place and I think we still have the recursive problem of just basically having too many turtles all the way down to be certain about what are what are terms mean and to be confident that we'll be able to have precise semantics when our agents operate on these kinds of resources. And of course, the open world assumption when we leave open the possibility of almost saying anything makes it makes our situation here much complicated. Now I should pause and say in my own community people have been very nervous about this situation and what's happening in the biological community in particular has been an initiative to try to overcome the problems of squishy semantics, and that's been done this effectively by what's called the open Biomedical ontologies foundry.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
So number very prominent scientists who are concerned with developing ontologies and Biomet bio medicine have proposed that there should be a collection of ontologies whose terms can be absolutely guaranteed to have precise meeting. And Barry Smith, who is a philosopher at University at Buffalo, and a variety of this colleagues, have proposed that there be an editorial board if you will, that will assure that biomedical ontologies that are admitted to the OBO foundry and get this Good Housekeeping seal of approval have terms that can be guaranteed to be correct.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
And if you go to obofoundry.org, what you'll see are a handful of terms of trouble. Handful of terminologies that have been admitted to the Obo foundry where. The terms that are at the top of that list presumably are the members of the foundry that had been blessed by the editorial board and below it are several dozen other wannabes where various ontologies are now vying for admission to the Obo foundry with the hope that they will meet the OBO foundry criteria.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
When you go to the Obo Foundry website, actually you'll see what the Obo foundry principles are. An most of those are extremely reasonable. Yoba Foundry wants all ontologies to have open content so that it can be shared. They want some sort of shared syntax and they're willing to accept OBO format or OWL. They want unique namespaces. They want explicit versioning they want delineated delineated content, textual definitions of terms in addition to perhaps logical definitions, they want the ontology to abide by a set of predefined relations. Good documentation this is all motherhood and Apple pie, basically. What is not on this list but with but is an unstated condition for admission to the OBO foundry is that the ontologies Enable foundry have to abide by the philosophy of Aristotelian realism. An I know, this group has had all kinds of discussions about constructivism and realism as well. The problem is, these are scientists who are insisting that all of their ontologies have terms that have unique values that have semantics that are defined by universals out there in reality. And I believe that this makes sense because in their view most of science is settled. I'm not going to go into the philosophy of science. I'm not really competent to do that, but there is a strong belief among the OBO foundry and this is I bring this up because this philosophy is extraordinary, pervasive in this part of the science community that only realistic elements beaten ontologies. What that means, for example, is that if you can't see it, it's not there, and it has led to concern about what it means to represent within ontologies, things that may occur at the quantum level, what it might mean to have an ontology, things that are postulated to exist but have never been actually observe. Herb, so there was a wonderful paper that Robert Hahndorf and Michel Dumontier wrote a couple of years ago, arguing that even though at that point in time no one had ever seen any evidence for Higgs bozon, it made sense to put one in an ontology, even though it was not real in the Aristotelian sense. And this kind of dialogue has perpetuated an in fact.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Great, a great paper by Gary Miller. Merola couple years ago really brought this to the four saying we have very careful that in science we don't really know necessarily what is real and this paper started an enormous debate, to which thousands of members of the biomedical community participated. Basically arguing whether I'm to our ontologies could be real where they could have fixed semantics, whether they would be invariant and the problem of course is between between us. We know very well that.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Not all science is permanent. There is still a large a large initiative to try to save Pluto.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Even though Pluto of course is now not viewed as a planet, but as a trans neptunian object, it's hard to tell a child that Pluto is a trans neptunian object, however.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
All of us as children sort of remember Triceratops is being one of our favorite dinosaurs, and I was I have to confess it even as an adult, I was demoralised. Recently when I was told that there's actually quite a bit of controversy in the paleontology community that tries Triceratops may never have actually existed.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Carol Goebel has met her mouth aghast. Because it is now postulated that there is this other Dinosaur which is not nearly as cute. Koala Torosaurus and the belief is that try Triceratops is actually a juvenile form of torosaurus where Taurus Taurus is the real species and triceratops is not. I'm not going to weigh in there, I'm intelligence, but suffice it to say I think all of us understand informally that science is not always settled an even in this area of science with this just. Enormous group of people who believe that we can come up with ontologies with absolutely rigid semantics. I think obviously there's certain problems there.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
So what does it mean for us if there's no settled science? Well, it means that we can encourage ontologies of all kinds, and our ontologies necessarily will evolve because science basically like the everyday world, is an area where our meaning is often socially constructed an we have to use that drink guide. The interpretation of our terms. I think it's a feature that the web allows us to represent alternative theories, and those alternative theories can be very important for us. Sometimes this. Is useful for like to be a wave. Sometimes it's useful for like to be a particle. Sometimes it's useful to be able to interpret human behavior and behavioristic terms. Sometimes it's useful to be interpret human behavior in Freudian terms. So like if some people will argue the latter, but we can have all kinds of theories and we can represent them on the web and we can reason about them in ways which I think are very enlightening and very helpful, provided that the end user understands which theories are being used and can buy into the semantics of those theories.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
So on the web, I think we really need to encourage the use of standard ontologies whenever we can. I think that goes without saying. I think it's also important. We don't say this enough that Providence is important not only for those of us who develop ontologies and web resources, but Providence is also critical for people who will be using web web resources because they have to understand from which those resources were from which those resources come, and they have to be able to understand what assumptions are built into the semantics of the terms to which they have to relate. When Inter operating with the semantic web. So I think that's really very critical and something that we often overlook. An I think we also have to accept the fact that our systems fail. They fail because often we miss communicate and that's OK. I think one of the major achievements that the web brought, I think to to the to the world, certainly to the hypertext community, was the idea that failure was acceptable, and I think probably one of the most important achievements of the World Wide Web.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Is error 404? When the web was first proposed, lots of people get very nervous about the idea of links that would not lead anywhere and I have to just confess that a colleague of mine in Graduate School even say his name. Mark Frizzy is now a very distinguished faculty member at Vanderbilt claims that the most important thing where the most salient thing he did in his professional career was to reject Tim Berners Lee's paper from the Hypertext Conference. He rejected it because he was really hung up on the idea of referential integrity, so I know mechanism for achieving referential integrity on the web and just concluded this will never scale. And I think the important thing is that it's OK for there to be errors. And I will say when it comes to understanding semantics on the.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
It's not only the case that a little semantics goes along way, but it's also, I think, OK, that to say that approximate semantics goes a long way, and I think we just have to feel increasingly comfortable with the idea that although we may work really hard to develop formal semantics for our representation systems, it's OK for us to have a fair bit of imprecision in the way in which we actually interpret those symbols directly because.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
As we know, sometimes approximate semantics can be a good thing.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
OK. So what have we learned from the winner? We talked about rules we talked about cognitive tractability talked a little bit about situated meaning. We spent a lot of time in the AI community talking about problem solving, something that we don't talk a lot about a lot in the web community. I want to give you a little flavor of the things that we wrestled with and let you know how that I think can play out in the semantic web community. I think in a very positive way.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
So I said, I mean, when people started building expert systems, they were insistent on building lots of rules. They felt that the more rules there were, the better. 'cause that meant the system was actually better doing whatever its task was, and mice. And as you see here was this in. I. This is very very very complex collection of rules which were difficult for not only users to understand, but obviously for developers to understand. The people who develop these kinds of knowledge bases said that the value of the knowledge bases was that you could just add a new rule and everything would be OK. And the idea of dropping a rule into the soup was very attractive until people realized as soon as you did that there could be all kinds of ripple effects that you would never anticipate, and one of the reasons that the knowledge based system approach tanked and we had the AI winter is that people in the industrial sector who tried harder and harder to build rule based systems had more and more trouble as they put more and more rules into their systems, and they couldn't understand the relationships, they couldn't understand how to maintain the systems, and they were looking for solutions. And their solutions at that time were actually to abandoned the AI approach and just break conventional computer code. But this changed a lot when people like Chandrasekharan at Ohio State University charter started to think about generic tasks that could represent procedures at very high levels, and in particular when built.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Nancy published his tome on your Ristic Classic classification, and what your issue classification was was a way of looking at what my son did, not as 400 rules that interacted together in this soup. But as very well described, organized ways of problem solving. So when your reclassification, there were three kinds of things going on. There was an abstraction hierarchy that describe the features of the case that was being diagnosed, so you had a patient. We might have a white blood cell count of two point 5000. Two point 5000 is it low number. It means the patient has a condition called leukopenia. Leukopenia means the patient is immuno suppressed immuno suppressed means there are compromised host. You all know what a compromised host is now an if there are compromised hosts that suggest they might have gram negative infections. So there was a heuristic that linked compromised host a gram negative infection which could be a part of another abstraction hierarchy. Where in this case you went down the hierarchy and said well maybe the. Patient has pseudomonas. Maybe the patient has E coli and so there was this pattern of inference that went from feature abstraction. Touristic match to solution refinement which was a way of explaining what my son was doing, not in a way that any of the mice and developers had ever explained it. Not in a way that any of the mice and users had understood the system, but in a way which provided a very coherent way to understand what kind of problem solving the system was performing. And this is really cool because not only could we understand mice and a lot better, but Clancy argued that you could under.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
I had a whole bunch of other systems a lot better. He talked about a system called Grundy which was created by Elaine Rich which was I don't realize I'm getting some alarms here on my own computer. That's not good. System called Grundy which would allow you to walk into a library. Tell a little bit about yourself to the librarian and the librarian would tell you what book you should read. Basically you have some sort of self described be behavior you describe yourself and I'm going to get into trouble as a cowboy as housewife as a as an accountant whatever. And somehow there would be knowledge in this knowledge base which would determine what kind of a person you were. What kind of books do you like to read? You want to read? Sci-fi or fantasy? Do you want to read? Romance novels to read Mysteries and basically then on the basis of whatever books were in the library, would say here's a book you should read. Not very exciting application actually in retrospect, but one which could be understood in terms of juristic classification with feature abstraction, heuristic match and solution refinement, and what the juristic classification approach did, was suddenly get everybody excited about thinking not about rules, not about frames, not about individual knowledge representation pieces, but about about patterns of reasoning and how we could use those patterns of reasoning to build systems, and we called.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Patterns, problem solving methods and these methods basically provided a way of talking abstractly about a kind of reasoning procedure that might be applied in multiple situations to many different kinds of problems, and these PSMS or problem solving methods would make explicit what are the ways in which knowledge which could be used in problem solving in order to get from one step to the next? How you could you define a ristic that would link compromised host to gram negative infection? How he could could you define touristic that would like? Classic person to classic book an basically these problem solving methods provided reusable building blocks not only for thinking about problem solving for so not only for modeling problems but also for actually building code that could implement juristic classification we could implement.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
A whole bunch of problem solving methods that the community spent most of the 90s trying to understand fault diagnosis, constraint satisfaction planning, design scheduling, sequence alignment and so on. Constraint satisfaction, for example, was an important problem solving method that basically was the foundation of our one which had to solve a whole bunch of constraints in order to get those parts to fit on the computer backplane. Whole companies, like a company called Trilogy that was founded in Austin, TX, used a problem solving method for constraint satisfaction. Over and over and over again to basically go out to the world and see. Where can I find constraint satisfaction problems that can be addressed with this particular method. They had a great hammer, they went out looking for nails and made a lot of money doing that. And in the AI community we're working really hard. Not only in trying to identify what are these kinds of abstract problem solving procedures with which we could model problem solving and AI systems and with which we could build those systems, but how can we actually piece them together?

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
And one of the important contributions of the AI community at that time was to recognize that we could do task decomposition. We could start out with a, well, I'm going to be a little bit frivolous here. We start with the task like do your laundry and figure out. Is there some method that will solve the do laundry task and maybe that method might involve subtasks like sort your clothes and wash your clothes. And maybe there was a problem solving method like classification that could do the sorting of the closed task pretty well and the idea would be that for anything that you wanted to automate. You would clarify what is the task, what are the sub tasks that are needed to solve that task, and what methods do you have in your problem solving method library that would allow you to piece together a structure for solving that problem in a way which would give you insight not only into how the problem solving should take place, but also would give you the code to implement the problem solvers that would allow you in a reusable fashion to put these things together pretty straightforwardly, and there were a lot of experiments, a lot of very exciting experiments. To use PSMS as the basis for building intelligent systems in the 90s and that basically all went away in the subsequent decade, the web came out on Rico Mota did a very interesting project that involved a number of us where he created something that he called the Internet Reasoning Service which had the direct idea of taking problem solving methods and making those making them services on the web.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
Basically what we find on the web is that services are fundamentally a bit different from the kinds of problem solvers that the AI community had in mind during the 1990s. RR services now are not domain independent. They're not very finely grained. They're actually pretty coarsely grained, and they're usually embedded in very domain specific tasks, so we don't really have experience in composing domain independent problem solving methods, orpro, or services on the web very, very much, and that may be an area of. A future work, but frankly, I don't think there's really much need for that. There's not much call for that because really all the tricky modeling is taking place within the web services. If you will not between them, and I think, frankly, in our community at this point, I think there is much value in being able to construe problem solving in terms of well defined, reusable problem solving components, but I think those problem solvers belong inside web services. Enabling us to model with what the web services do rather than to isolate them as separate problem solvers that we pieced together the way that we did in the expert systems community. So I think that's that's a fundamental change. I think the task decomposition obviously will continue to be an important area that we work on. I think it's going to be important, in particular when we want to build the kinds of agents that were talked about in the Scientific American article, because the kinds of complexities that we have there clearly are the kinds of complexities that you want to be able to address in terms of well defined hierarchies of problem solving procedures rather than some of the problems that are associated with conventional computer code. I think the problem that we have in our community right now is that despite the vision and the Scientific American Paper, I think we're still at the stage we were.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Five years ago, when Jim wrote his famous editorial where all the intelligent agents I think we have some agents out there that have been very exciting, and I think this Community has done a really good job of giving us some really good exemplars of the kinds of activities that can take place on the web. We still don't have the kinds of agents that will brush our teeth or do our shopping, or change the lighting in our home, so maybe in some sense we're not. We're certainly not there yet, and there's a lot of work to be done, and I would like to think. That the kinds of lesson.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
And set the AI community has learned during the course of its winter, will have in continued applicability within the semantic web community. I have a final say that that's maybe something which is obvious, and I think probably the most enduring contribution of what the AI community offered during the 1990s is that reusable patterns are a good idea, and obviously that that's.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
Truism in the case of building standalone AI systems, we needed patterns in the sense of reusable ontologies that we wanted to apply in new applications. And so we viewed on teologi's themselves as giant patterns. We looked at problem solving methods as patterns for addressing reusable procedures, and in those in that case those reusable procedures where patterns that could be applied to a variety of planning and classification and constraint satisfaction tasks and God knows what else this Community has done. A really exciting job. On the web of beginning to articulate ontology design patterns and it's really exciting to see hold workshops and conferences in this area were beginning to see the choreography and orchestration of web services. Being things that we want to understand better, not in terms of 1 offs, but in terms of patterns themselves was going on implicitly in the AI Community ten 1020 years ago is now front and center in the semantic web community, and I think it's really exciting to see our community taking on these kinds of activities because I think. Those abstractions are important, and as I said earlier, I think basically understanding abstraction, being able to apply abstraction is really at the heart of the whole science that we do.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
So I think in the last AI winter, if you will, we learned a lot of things. We learned that rules don't necessarily scale, particularly wants to build complex systems. Learn about cognitive tractability fact that meeting is approximate, and as I said today, I think approximate meaning is actually a good thing. Talked about problem solving and how difficult it might be to model problem solving and the idea that patterns are reusable and I think our community is picking up on all this in varying degrees and I obviously I'm. I'm here to encourage all of us to be able to start thinking about these things in more explicit terms. I want to do that because it really goes back to the original question I had at the beginning of the talk. All of us have done all this handwringing about the AI winter an we obviously have colleagues who may have lost a lot of money in industry as a consequence of the AI winter that set in 25 years ago. But, as I said, I think the consequences of that AI winter has caused a lot of deep thought on the part of the academic community and the industrial industrial community for that matter. And all of us, I think, have learned a lot from that, and I think our science has improved greatly as the hype is diminished. And the obvious question then, is where are we in the semantic web community well?

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
What is the? What is Gartner actually say about us? So I actually couldn't afford the document. Gardner did a study of the semantic Web. Last summer there. At that time they were charging $3000, which I decided was out of my price range. But according to Gartner, we're sort of at the top of the technology trigger peak, and we have actually reached the peak of inflated expectations. Actually, when you look at all of their analysis of web technologies and.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
And I didn't buy the books. Maybe someone in this room actually had the money to buy their report, in which case you may be able to provide more insight, but I think it's very interesting to look how they categorize web technologies, and some of them they viewed as being on the rise Son at the peak, including the semantic Web when I don't understand semantic web, is at the peak, an Web 3.0 is sliding into the troft. And maybe it's worth spending the $3000.00 to find out why that is the case. My. My hunch is that perhaps there viewing Web 3.0 is the kind of intelligent agent approach to the web that was popularized in the Scientific American article was many people view semantic web simply as linked data. I'm not sure how to really interpret that. We can all speculate a lot about that over the coffee break, but it's also, I think, interesting to see where some other web technologies which we wish that we love have fallen into place in the Gartner Group's analysis. And I won't even try to speculate, but allow you to have your own guesses how they reach those conclusions. Which can do an as it's not really a scientific way of studying. What is the future of the semantic web, but Google trends sometimes can be very interesting an and sometimes a bit sobering.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
So if you search for the trends of searches of for semantic web on Google, it doesn't look like it's A doesn't look like it's going up. At least there may be error bars there, but obviously it's interesting that semantic web is not being searched nearly as much as it was seven years ago. Perhaps more sobering for those of us in this room.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
When you search for eswick, you don't see a growth in the number of searches and I and it's really important to point out that not only is it does this graph show you the trend and searches for ISWCB, meaning international semantic web conferences also includes the International Symposium on Wearable Computers, and I actually don't know what attendance that particular is wicketts, but though that's lumped in there as well, I think is, I think, the wearable computer company actually wearable computer. Conference actually gets less attendance than we do, Fortunately.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
On the other hand, when you look at Link data, the future looks pretty bright and maybe that's why the Gartner Group things, at least what they call semantic Web, is peaking. But I think it's really exciting in some sense to see that people recognize the value of linked data, and that trend certainly looks more positive than than the others. Again, I don't pretend to be a business consultant, but I think some of these. These trends are interesting, and I think as we begin to think about how do we want to mold our science moving forward. And also how do we want to market our science that people understand better what we do? I think these kinds of data actually can be kind of illuminating, so I would say I think it's not clear what the forecast is.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
I don't think it really looks like winter yet. Obviously there's enormous uptake of semantic technology in the industrial center and industrial sector. Tony Shaw, who for years has run the same tech conferences, tells me that despite the new trends in that conference, and despite the fact that there is now a delusion by having the comments appear now on multiple continents, often at multiple times, attendance for Semtech continues to go up at Semtech in San Francisco last year. They are on the order of 400 participants and the buzz was great. Certainly the the buzz, but RDF certainly the buzz about schema.org, which is absolutely incredible and people were providing demos of all kinds of great applications, which I think was a real shot in the arm for all of us who do worry about it getting a little bit colder out there. I think the AI hype taught us a lot and the semantic web community has certainly learned from that, and I feel very positive about the way in which we are conducting ourselves in a much more responsible way than certainly my mentors may have done in the 1970s. And I think the past 25 years, as I've said during this morning's talk has really taught us a lot about intelligence, about intelligent systems, and I think what it means to take intelligence and to move it into the great frontier that's represented by the web and all that. It offers both, both quantitatively and qualitatively. And I think basically the ideas that are coming out of our community are going to continue to influence our practice. I think we have really gained a lot from the mistakes that have been made by our predecessors, and although it may get a little bit chilly.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
I'm very excited about where we are and look forward to finding out how the forecast will turn out. Thank you.
