[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello, my name is Marco and in this part you will learn how to calculate results for the formation of tritium in water samples measured by liquid scintillation counter. As a result of measurements, we get count rate, so for samples calibration standards that water which is Treaty of free water for background correction and quality control samples count rates can be determined based on the Treaty and spectrum as shown in figure. We sent out Staten and Channel for the team pick and calculate number of events in the peak. This is done automatically by this software.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Results of tritium activity. Concentration in water samples can be calculated using this simple equation 1. In the equation we have on top of background subtracted bit account rate which we divide by the electrical enrichment factor, detection efficiency, volume of the sample and decade correction factor. Count rate is calculated with equation 2 by division of number of counts, that is number of bit events recorded in selected channels divided by measurement time. Electrical in each one factor can be calculated as shown in equation 3 by calculating natural exponent of average in each manufacturer multiplied by electric charge divided by difference between starting and final mass of electric sample and multiplied by the natural logarithm of division of starting and final mass of electrolyzed sample.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
We have to calculate measurement uncertainties using concertante propagation loss. Each of the elements in equation 1 used to calculate or measurement has an uncertain T. Integration of four first term in brackets is showing karate standard certainty or background subtracted bit account rate, second term, relative standard, and certainty of electric electrical enrichment factor. Third, relative standard or certainty of detection efficiency next relative to another certainty of volume of the sample and last decay correction factor. Standard certainties or background subtracted. Count rates can be calculated using equations five and six verse. Tender certainty of the count rate is calculated as poison distribution as one divided by the square root of number of counts as shown in equation 6. Standard certainty of sample volume depend on used volume measuring cylinder. When?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Report results we usually multiply combined standard to certainty by the coverage factor to get expanded to certainty as shown in equation 7. Usually we take courage factor of two, which represents that there is 95% probability that the two value lies within our measured value plus minus expenditure certainty. Finally, the report or results as activity concentration plus minus expenditures entity. We also had to provide which coverage vector used.
