But then I'll talk about some work following on from that with Amaran and Emilio, and then finally some more recent work with Cedric, Ash Ambo, Matthew Higgs, and Manfred Opper. So typical results state that with high probability, at least one minus Delta, which is where the probably comes from. Any classifier from a hypothesis class which has low training error will have low generalization error. In the the noise model that corrupts the output is taken to be additive, Gaussian noise, and so the posterior is also a Gaussian process, so it's another Gaussian, but now it's no longer a spherically symmetrical Gaussian. Here is a Cholesky decomposition of the kernel matrix, so this is the kernel matrix K. Here Sigma is the noise that you assume in the noise model, and so there are various components, so you can compute this again. In this case, we can compute the expected value of H, epsilon of F under the posterior function, and here it is, where M of X is the mean of the posterior via vexes it's variance, which you can compute exactly in this Gaussian process formulation. In 1998 so the Bayesian approach derives from Bayes theorem and the way it works is to assume a prior distribution over the functions that you think will arise as a result of your learning. Is through a approximating posterior through a time varying linear stochastic differential equation. As I said, the using a time varying means that you're using a linear stochastic differential equation means that the posterior will therefore be a Gaussian. So this is the posterior distribution, and if you're a a good Bayesian, you'll classify according to the expected classification or progress according to the expected output of that classifier of that function. Things it allows you to do is to estimate the evidence for a model, which is basically this the likelihood of having seen the data you observed in the model, taking into account your posterior distribution and and so on all of your updated probabilities you can integrate over that and give you a likelihood of the data in that model. In the classification case, if you are assuming zero noise, in other words, the labels are always correct. Differential equation and we use this very variational approximation with a posterior which is a Gaussian process defined by a time varying linear SDE. Improve proof and bound due to Matthias Seeger in 2002, with an application to Gaussian processes. But the distribution must be chosen before learning. It's to capture sort of the elements that enable an understanding and analysis of different phenomena. Tough cookies, but it's still true either way, so that the status of the bound does not depend on the accuracy of P, But the quality of the bound does. And we are interested in the expected value of that classification error of that randomly drawn. Now you might say what you should do is the posterior average. In other words, take the average vote of the classifiers in the posterior distribution and use that as your classification rather than just pick a random classifier and classify with that. In the prior and some results to show you how tight this bound can be, because I think there's a. Very centered at the origin and the posterior is centered at some scaling of the weight vector that the classifier we're considering. So I already mentioned the SVM actually corresponds to this averaged classifier becausw. It agrees with the majority. Weight of the classifiers will classify the same way, so this is the. So if we optimize mu, basically if we can write the bound as I indicated this morning in the following way, it's twice the minimum overview of this KL inverse where I just use that to denote the maximum value of P. That's consistent with the bound where the Q is the empirical error. That's this one and the A. The frequentist approach was pioneered in Russia by vapnik and driven kiss. This is using that prior trick with, I think 20% of the training data used to learn the prior and the remainder remainder to to estimate the bound were able to get a somewhat tighter performance.