But we don't know who is copying from whom, but then. What we can observe indigenous networks is the processes that are happening on them. For instance, for the case of needle sharing, we can see when a person gets ill and goes to the doctor. For the case of information networks we can see when site or web lock is mentioning a piece of information. Likelihood that we just define this monotonic and is submodular in the edges of the graph. We have tight online bonds and we can have speedups. One of them is based on the submodularity that is lazy evaluation, and another one is based on the structure of the problem. How many cascades do we need for inferring the network? Go to a small example we can see on the left that is the true network and we can see on the right is our method and on the middle is a baseline that we're basically picking the strongest edges. Bigger scale for chronic graphs of forest fire graph both. Both of them of 1024 nodes or 1000 nodes and with an exponential transmission model and power law model. How our method is outperforming the baseline and even more important, the methods since invariant against the structure of the network and against the transmission time distribution we get break even points of 90%. So for real data we have the following problem, that is that we don't have a ground truth and we want to use the mentions of quotes that are happening in the network to infer who is copying from whom or who is repeating after whom. So what we did is we have also the hyperlinks that are happening between the sites in this ground in this network and we use it as a ground truth. So from the data set we can have cascades of hyperlinks would be to take the time when our site creates links and we have cascades of textual phrases. There is a directed social network and information network over which diffusions take place. We managed to infer hidden networks based only on the diffusion data that is activity happening in this data or formulation is based on a maximum likelihood framework and we are able to approximate an NP hard problem with a solution that runs in any square, is invariant to the structure of the underlying network and give a suboptimal network that we can bound tightly. For instance, in Beatles propagation we can see how The Beatles propagate through the network and we can see again how people get sick. We can observe who buy the products, but we cannot observe A who influence at home. Our plan is first to define a model of diffusion that works in continuous time. After that we are going to define a likelihood of the observed cascades given the network, and we're going to see how to efficiently compute the likelihood of the Cascades and how to efficiently find a graph key that maximize the likelihood that booty to estimate the network, and we have to take into account that the networks we have a super exponential time of super exponential number of them, and our method is going to achieve to find a sub optimal graph on network. Imagine that Cascade arrives to annoy you at at time TU, and then we have to see how it spreads to the neighbors. So the assumption that we are making is that every node has only one parent. So now if we see the probability of a cascade C. In a pattern tea in a pattern in a tree pattern T we can see that it's only the product of the priorities of every edge we can see visually on the right, down. So if we consider all the possible provides on trees supported by the graph D or the network that is showing the connectivity, we can see how simply. So our problem is to find in a graph G that better explain this set of cascades and we limit the number of edges of key to a number K. So what are the good news and the bad news about this? We can compute this quantity in Ncube when the number of super exponential and the bad news is that we actually want to share it over the graphs. We are considering only the most likely tree. Then we can compare the product systems. But now we're going to present an algorithm that finds near optimal networks in a square. And besides because the every edge is pointing forward in time in the sense that a node cannot buy get infected by another node but was infected in the future, we have a maximum directed spanning tree over attack. Basically, choose the edge that has the maximum weight and in that sense we can choose the pattern of every note independently.