But the problem is that during the annotation process it's often costly and time consuming because we need human experts spend time to do it. That's a problem because then arbitrary probabilities will be assigned to the this component. So the idea is to introduce another variable with this effect label, let's say 00, and the idea is to. So if we see in the binary case, for example, the label examples keep their own labels and all the labels gets into into the new label. So using this this new variable, our model becomes like this and in order to train all model we use AM algorithm as we have London variables. They look like a cover of our model is actually the sum of the documents. At times, the probability that the log of the joint probability of the document, the word and the label of this work, including the fake label. Appears we want to apply active learning on the top of the semi supervised learning, so now all available data have a probability of being in a class. So which is the most ambiguous example where ambiguous? We used three binary problems. Muskogee PC versus Mac and resume with sophism. So the first is quite easy, the other moderate, moderate, moderate and the other hard. Office category we use the 80% of the training set as a 80% of the data's training set, from which we used to label examples as initial training. Is that the harder the problem is, the more the active learning helps, at least from the experiments we have till now. This image provides learning and active learning and both tried to solve this problem. So to reduce the annotation cost but from two different perspectives I'll say just now. So of course more experiments have to be made different datasets to compare with different methods. For example, the SVM or different methods of combine also semi supervised and active learning. And also another idea is to improve our method by using different active learning methods or using our own combined. And it's very straightforward to apply our method on multiclass problems, But this will have to do some experiments, and of course anymore ideas are welcome. OK, thank you for their mark. So if my talk I just present the problem will say I give some details of the solutions, then I'll present our methods, which is actually some supervised probabilistic latent semantic analysis. The experiments we have done till now and then conclusion and future work. On the other hand, active learning start within a the same initial settings. So if you label data set, if you label data and a large amount of labeled datasets an, But then we turn our model or models. When we use this model to test to test with our model, in the unlabeled data. Then we select the most beautiful example. One of them is to select the most ambiguous example or another one is to do use different models on the training. An and then we stop by there when we reach the performance we want, or after a certain number of queries. So the setting always the same few labels, a lot of unlabeled. And now we train our model on the combination of both. But from then on is like the active learning part. We used the example we want the most useful. So I'll I'll give a few details of how we represent our data to explain why we choose, people say algorithm. And this can create a disconnection between topics of the documents and words. If document has the work April inside, we don't know if the topic is fruits or it's computers Max. He does that by introducing Lantern variable, which is the components. We're going to model our algorithm using the equation there where actually the we have the profile of the component, the profile of the topic, which is actually the words from which can consist the topic and the topics which are in a document from from which topic segment talks.