I promise to show a real estimator for a real problem that I can plug into the algorithm. This is actually defined subset of the original problem, which is a sparser represent representation of the original problem, which is known to be even harder than original, which was NP hard. Just need to bound from above the original 1. This is all we can actually get the similar, all the similar theorems. So for example. And we take their relaxed loss to beat the hinge loss. Polylog N constraints and still get an competitive or epsilon regret competitive solution with respect to the ranks when that was a trend over the full matrix. What we did we provided the near optimal query. The current NIPS and from future work or several possibilities among them are, it would be interesting to apply our idea to other settings. So we want to check whether this works a good and finally the epsilon smoothness idea. In a nutshell, what we want to do is to reduce the number of preference when we try to learn to rank from Paris preferences. An will use a structural property over hypothesis that will lead to a near optimal solution. Where you going to program so we have a finite set of elements V and elements, and the pairwise preference function over pairs so. And given this set of elements which which we also call alternatives and a pairwise preference function W, you want to find an order over these elements with minimal pair pairwise disagreement Miss W. So in the formal lecture you've seen this kind of loss. We have a disagreement and we count that as an error, so we sum over all such errors and we should normalize because of symmetry. OK, let's play with the toy example. OK. And instead of the view is of W of the preference function is as a graph. OK, so notice that here we have a preference cycle. Do you get this sign? However, even when W is known when the target function when you have the targeted function at hand, this problem is not also known as the minimum feedback arc set in tournament, which is NP hard. However, recently can ensure that they provided a polynomial time approximation scheme for this problem. For now, think about it as just an empirical risk of a biased sample, OK?