So here I'll only ask this probation learning algorithms since for that it's really easy to prove great cumulative bounds. What happens and the statisticians want us to say something about finite N? So there's another known result, which is if you get if you don't use base but the cisero average. It's also called progressive mixture rule, so this is a method that many people use instead of base because it's easier to prove things about it, but in reality you probably wouldn't want to use it because what you do there is you average overall basing predictions done so far. It's equal to K / 2 log N, where K is the number of free parameters in your model. As some of you know, we're working both in machine learning and statistics, which is usually a way of getting publications rather easily. So we conjecture that it's always K / 2 N plus something small, and for the applications we have in mind, we actually need some explicit bounds on the smaller of one, and if we do this for K larger than one with the Taylor expansion, we will not get these explicit bounds. Possible approach would be if we could show that the individual risk is decreasing. So if we can show that the individual terms are all positive and non increasing, then it's rather easy to show that they actually know it's gone. How do I get back? You have a Bernoulli model. Biased coin flips, you put a uniform prior on them, and you do the basin predictions. So the question is maybe if you are a bit more careful, maybe you can show that base is almost smart that you that the risk goes down fast enough or that some good tight upper bound on the risk is always decreasing and that would also be good enough. So, um, as a final remark, even if you're only interested in cumulative risk results, this saying things about the individual risk can sometimes be important. I got interested in it again because I needed this result to say something about cumulative risk for very large nonparametric models. From data, so in statistics, this is often the so called individual risk. So let me define individual risk, so I'll simplify things here. I'll assume that there is a model, a set of distributions, and that the data is actually sampled from an element of that set. So for a good learning algorithm, we would want to prove that the risk converges to zero uniformly in N. Something like that. Now the redundancy in information theory, which will be noted by Capital R, is defined as the expectation overall sequences of length M of the extra number. You record the log loss and you look at the expected difference between your predictions loss and the loss you get if you use the best distribution in your model.