This was done during an internship I was doing in the social computing lab in HP Labs. So in past few years we've witnessed an explosive growth in social media with websites like Facebook and Twitter and IG. What we have now is an environment where people can have the potential of spreading a message across these networks and become really popular. So no surprise we find like 3.2 million Bitly URLs in our data set, and for each one of the URLs what we do is we look at all the people who posted this URL and compute the average IP influence of these users. We cannot get the exact number, but we can get an upper bound. OK, so now we want to go back to the original question how how does this compare with other with other measures of influence? What about the most passive user? Then I'll describe the algorithm which assigns an influence score to each user in the network, and then I'll show you something we did for to valuate the algorithm. We can also do content ranking so. Of course, we like to extend to other social networks, and we're in the process of building an application. Alright, so first a little bit of Twitter background. It has around 200 million users, or at least as of March 2011. Probably more now, so it's pretty big. Tweet is this short post that people can post on Twitter. OK, so now in the data and the data that we used, it was collected for 300 hours starting on September 10th, 2009. We had 15,000,000 unique URLs and 2.5 million users posted at least one URL. So you notice these numbers are really small on average, users only retweet one in every 318 URLs they are exposed to. OK, so so when we think about this influence score, we're going to make the following assumptions. So first we're going to assume that the influence of a user depends on two things. One, it's going to depend on the passivity of those that he tries to influence. Has to post some messages and Jay has to retweet them so if they re tweets I then we say that I influence in J. OK, and the weights so the weight of the hij is going to be the ratio of all the tweets that I posted. Well, first we are going to compute this acceptance rate that I was talking about before, so this acceptance rate AIJ is going to be how much I influences J.