They also another problem that they have is that they faced that they have hundreds of types of observations. So basically these people sometimes go into Expeditions to drill cores out of the earth and they they take things out of eyes out of model marine sediments, coral trees, eyes so many, many different types of things that can be observed from those. And indeed there are hundreds of types of measures that can be taken from these types of observations. Also the engagement has been through Twitter polls and online surveys which have actually shown that the community is very interested in this kind of analysis and just to summarize a little bit. An approach for on the fly on ternary extensions for metadata annotations that will force their standardization through renaming out auto completion and voting from the different parts of the community. All the process of documenting all the the decisions that were taking on the new definitions and how the ontologies have changed from 1 version to another. It's like the social aspect of science sometimes and then we wanted to know how how a scientist that wanted others to reuse their data can create new properties that they consider. A very very useful to describe their own data, right? So we wanted to facilitate consensus, create extensions on what other people have done to this core agreements, and we wanted to create a framework to know how how can we. It's sorry, the scientific community benefit from these core agreements an extensions that they have done for their own data. A meta data crowdsourcing platform which could leverage different users to expand on their properties that they need to to describe their data control standardization process for new metadata properties that will require scientists that know a little bit more what they're doing in order to make sure that the process makes sense. And finally a framework for updating metadata from previously annotated datasets. Framework itself and produce some changes to what we call the crowd vocabulary right, which are extensions to the original core Ontology. This whole set of changes is just saved as part of what we call the request an issues to the core ontology and the changes to the crowd vocabulary are just saved in a new version of the crowd vocabulary itself. Which data set annotation interface for crowdsourcing this metadata of all the datasets? So you can see where are they only datasets coming from you can see which instruments are used used and where they are used so on so forth also. Apparently is polls for decision making, so the leaders of these working groups will suggest approving or or using one metadata property or the other and then the people from the working group both and the good thing about this is that everything is recorded and therefore whenever someone asks why something was added, you can add a justification saying hey look, we all voted and agreed that this in this date and this was the resolution.