[0.0s - 29.0s]
So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The content of flooring in plants is usually lower than 10 milligrams per kilogram. One of the rare plans that can uptake much larger amounts of flooring from soil is deplaned. Otherwise, increased concentration of flooring implant is usually due to aerial. The position of fluorides emitted from different sources. It can be seen on the picture, how? These Brown marks how toxic fluorides are for plants. Once Lauren is a is accumulated implants, it can enter.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Into the food chain, small amounts of fluoride have proven benefits for dental health. Since it prevents tooth decay, it is added to toothpaste and in some countries to drink water. But continuous exposure to high intakes can result in development of dental or skeletal fluorosis.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So how can we determine the amount of fluorine? First sample must be decomposed. This can be done either by alkali metal carbonate Fusion where sample is mixed with sodium potassium carbonate and hit it with burner or by oxygen bump combustion where sample is burned in pressurized oxygen atmosphere. And then free fluoride ions are determined by fluoride ion selective electrode so.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Let's say that we determine the amount of chlorine in spruce needles after both decomposition methods and we get these results. So how can we now know which result is correct? The easiest way to evaluate the accuracy of a method is the use of certified reference material.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And what the certified reference material actually is? The content of the analyte in a certain material is determined by different laboratories and by different methods. Those results are processed and you get a certificate with a certified value and it's uncertain T. So if we do the analysis of this certified reference material and our results fall within this certified interval, then we can say that the method used is accurate.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, the aim of my study was to evaluate the accuracy of both decomposition methods. So Fluorine was determined in certified reference material in spruce needles and in green tea and these are the results. It can be seen that the results obtained after oxygen bump combustion are lower, but still the results of the certified reference material fall within certified interval for both methods and at both concentration levels. And we can conclude that both methods are accurate. Thank you.
