So I would like to discuss with you the problem of multiple instance learning an inspired by this workshop. Yeah, this is a challenge how to do this. And there's also standard things like a standard Hausdorff distance. With the district, with the assumption that the back is not a set of instances, what I basically did before, but I want to compare it to when I assume at the bag is actually a distribution. Well, probability mass from one back to the other, you have to find the optimal flow. Does it make sense to define these type of? So the fact that it works for me indicate that the concept that for that there is a concept in this problem and this concept is quite tight. And that all these these the overall minimum distance almost always occurs within this concept and not within the background. Well it actually takes into account all these minimum distances over the whole set so it doesn't have any idea of a concept or and or background distribution. If you want to classify for instance, spice shop from something else, special probably needs more global information at their chili. Often the concept of our idea of a concept is really not so strong. And it's still my my well, my question. So then I would also expect that is Cinnamon would have had to cluster there with minimum distances. If you now want to represent an object like this, it would be very fine. This is multiple instance learning that you say, OK, I have an object represented by a collection of feature vectors and this whole collection is is labeled and of course now the task is to infer these labels from a collection of feature vector. In the most naive approach, if you don't know anything about multiple instance learning, people label all the instances of the bag that was labeled positive as positive instances, or sorry to be very sure I have to go for notation, but I have is a feature space I have collection of bags and banks contain instances, instances are feature vectors. Multiple instance learning and it's actually being done a lot. In the original formulation of the multiple instance, learning the detect paper. There was a deep roast that multiple instance learning actually has to define for each positive back.