Get better than alphabetic lists. So as I said, most think data browsers they display lists of facts which are ordered randomly alphabetically, but usually not somehow grouped. They are usually not ranked by importance, they're just lists affects some things we already tried in the past. In 2012 we had this paper we tried to use word net for identifying related properties, so saying something like climate is related to rainfall is related to temperature and so on. So the idea here is if something like population and area of the city are often queried together in the same query, then they must be related somehow. So to test this hypothesis, we used to build a prototype which is using a framework for mobile framework for building semantic web browsers which which can display different groupings of fact. So just the global frequency of properties used as a baseline. The idea of exploring query logs so we have this distance measure saying if two things Co occur in queries a large than the distance is low then they are quite close to each other and we use this distance measure to feed three different clustering algorithms which was the scam which was K metalloids which is essentially the same as K means except for using the medium instead of the mean and just being a bit more robust towards outliers. So question like what is the elevation of the City of Mannheim? So we removed outliers and then we ended up with 65 sort of valid participants of the study. 40% out of those who are familiar with the semantic Web according to self assessment, 60% were not and each. Each question was solved 13 times with each sorting. So the outcome sadly was that there is no significant improvement in terms of task completion time. When you look at the DPD ontology, which means that only 2% of the property pairs that are currently pedia also appear in use. So we have these two namespaces, DBO and EP Sode, Pedia Island PDF Properties and they have redundancies. Just because the UI alphabetic ordering. Very high up in the list and also if we order things by occurrence then this pretty much reflects the subjective importance. If we had had speaking names, this would probably boost the utility a bit, but yeah, we didn't have them because it was out of school, so this was also a problem on the approach. We did not examine the approach beyond DB pedia, so these cells are strongly biased towards DB pedia.