[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so here's here's the motivation. If you if you look at, for example, DB pedia nowadays, this is what you see. You see a list of key value pairs essentially, and they're just ordered in some random fashion, and these lists can be very very long without any idea of what should go on top and what should give in the bottom right. So the PDF for example just orders them alphabetically from H, is AT and the questions can become better. Can we can get better than this can begin. Get better than alphabetic lists. Just a question we try to answer in this work. The work, by the way, is joint work, which with Yahoo was a Masters student, work in under my supervision and he basically did all these analysis as a part of his Masters thesis.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So as I said, most think data browsers they display lists of facts which are ordered randomly alphabetically, but usually not somehow grouped. They are usually not ranked by importance, they're just lists affects some things we already tried in the past. In 2012 we had this paper we tried to use word net for identifying related properties, so saying something like climate is related to rainfall is related to temperature and so on. This did not work overly good, so this was another failure which is not part of this talk, so this talk is about another failure.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So what we the idea we had here was can we use spark query logs and specifically can we use Co occurrence and queries as a proxy for relatedness? So the idea here is if something like population and area of the city are often queried together in the same query, then they must be related somehow. So we use those logs we look at Co occurrence and say OK can be somehow come up with grouping from that from those locks we use the distance here. So we say the distance between two properties is. The inverse of how often they occur together plus a smoothing factor, which for one reason it's prevents division by zero. If you have no Co occurrence. On the other hand, it has some smoothing in the low end of the distribution, mainly it influences the difference in distance, which happens between zero and one occurrence. So there it acts as a smoothing fact.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So to test this hypothesis, we used to build a prototype which is using a framework for mobile framework for building semantic web browsers which which can display different groupings of fact. So this framework has been built by a student group of mine when I was still backing down shut and this is an open framework, they can just plug in any filters or grouping operators that manipulate lists of RDF statements and then they can come up with different visualizations. So we use this framework and we implemented different strategies for grouping facts and the hope we had was if we use grouping based on Co occurrence in query logs down, we can come up with very nice and very senseful groupings.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So what we tested there was we had two baselines. The one was the lexicographic baseline, which is just one UPD adults, right. Just order all properties from H is at. This is what the pedia does when you open a page. Then we use counting. So we set everything that is globally frequent is important. So just the global frequency of properties used as a baseline. And then we used three different clustering techniques which came from this. The idea of exploring query logs so we have this distance measure saying if two things Co occur in queries a large than the distance is low then they are quite close to each other and we use this distance measure to feed three different clustering algorithms which was the scam which was K metalloids which is essentially the same as K means except for using the medium instead of the mean and just being a bit more robust towards outliers. And we also looked at hierarchical clustering, so these should ideally give us semantically. Coherent groups of properties belonging together in a semantic sense because they have been cribbed along each other a lot.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So in order to to confirm this, we made an experimental study with these five different grouping strategies. We pick town, example DB pedia entities from 5 classes, so to settlements to countries, to films, to officeholders, to musical artists. And for each of those we came up with a question that was to be answered by the subject. So question like what is the elevation of the City of Mannheim? We tried to pick entities that are known to people, but properties that they do not know by heart. So nobody probably knows the elevation of Manheim by heart. And so we used popular entities but unpopular properties and tried to make people answer these questions. So we presented them the question we presented them. The entity presented using one of those five grouping methods, and then we measured correctness of the answer. We measured answering time and also after each question we asked for a subjective rating of the presentation. So do you think this was helpful or not OK, so this is what we did. We did this with a lot of people, so we had 80 participants in the online study. We removed some outliers for people who didn't do the whole study and to end or people who got distracted. So if you observed very, very unusual response times like people taking half an hour for completing a question, it's likely that they got distracted by phone call in between or something. So we removed outliers and then we ended up with 65 sort of valid participants of the study. 40% out of those who are familiar with the semantic Web according to self assessment, 60% were not and each. Each question was solved 13 times with each sorting. So each question relating to one entity was resolved 13 times with one of the five sortings. This is the distribution of the experimental data.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So the outcome sadly was that there is no significant improvement in terms of task completion time. In terms of answer correctness in terms of subjective rating, so it just doesn't seem to matter how you present this stuff, whether you presented and lists, or whether you try to semantically group it. So this was the outcome of the study, sad.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Enough. So there are some factors that may be responsible for that. So one thing is this used what Sparkle data set has a fairly limited coverage. When you look at the DPD ontology, which means that only 2% of the property pairs that are currently pedia also appear in use. What at least once, so the vast majority is never created along with one another. Then we have a problem of redundant properties in the pedia. So we have these two namespaces, DBO and EP Sode, Pedia Island PDF Properties and they have redundancies. So we have birthplace, birthplace and place of birth and they are maximally semantically related of course. But people rather do not query them both right they query either for DBO birthplace or DBP birthplace. They would rather not query them along with each other so this is something so they always ended up in different groups which is. Of course not what we wanted.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Hot. Another problem we observed was that our baselines are suspiciously strong, so this alphabetic ordering is very, very strong. And what we see is one reason here is that the pedia all namespaces always before the pedia property namespace. Just because the UI alphabetic ordering. And this leads to the high quality properties which are in the DDL namespace always being listed on top. And if people just go through the list from top to bottom, they always hit the right one. Very high up in the list and also if we order things by occurrence then this pretty much reflects the subjective importance. So if you ask for like the elevation of a city and you see all those properties, you have a certain intuition of how important elevation is for a city and then you can search in the respective area of the list and actually the overall occurrence baseline is a very strong one due to that behavior. And then one problem that was pointed out by the participants is that we had the grouping now right. We had group properties together and we could not really assign them really sensible names. So this was out of scope and it's fairly hard. I mean you have all these properties like area population, population density and you could have caused name that group demographics. But coming up with that in an automatic fashion is a very hard problem which we did not consider, so we had just groups which had no names and. If we had had speaking names, this would probably boost the utility a bit, but yeah, we didn't have them because it was out of school, so this was also a problem on the approach.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So for conclusion, the idea really look tempting when we start it right? So we have this massive amount of query logs which contain lots and lots of useful information and also the idea of looking at Co occurrence as a proxy for semantic relatedness actually looks quite valid if you do not think too much about it, but if you later on looked in the details and looked at, why did things go wrong actually then we saw OK, maybe it's not the best proxy to be honest. We also saw these coverage problems of the user. What datasets which caused us some problems and another thing is what we did not do in the cause of this work. We did not examine the approach beyond DB pedia, so these cells are strongly biased towards DB pedia. So, for example, this alphabetic ordering baseline problem, this may not occur in another approach. So we do not know how things behave outside of DB pedia alright. And then I can take some questions.
