Dear Rector Servotronic, also other rectors and members of the Rectors Conference. It says I'm a senior researcher at Kieran Open Education. This is rather a closed idea of education, and so will come on later today on what the further ideas could be, but it's this idea well. I think many people in future studies have talked about this kind of idea, where essentially it's lots of different kind of modules of learning and it's really in a way kind of Fair that. The institution or the provision of higher education. I think we can look at the work from a steady I did with Martin Weller and Rob Farrow, which we called so fat in this study. How do you provide access and delivery of learning opportunities? So the classic idea is, well, you do that by saying a student has to come to your campus and if we think of an online version you say where you do that by saying the student has to enroll on to a lot online platform. The second point is learning content. Study programs need to reflect on and react to developments in society so. That is a space to reflect on, React and react to these because it should be a place and this is my Third Point. And old people. And this was a big change because mostly when we're thinking about higher education, we've always had the classic books called the idea of the University. We have a double challenge now. We have to think about our students learning or acquiring the right skills for the future in a digital environment. Just one of the studies which is being produced at the moment on the future of higher education I thought was quite useful. The main point about this study where they're talking about solving future skills challenges is they say we have to get away from the linear model of understanding that a young person finishes. We're hoping in the not too distant future to have a link English language version of the study, but it hasn't been possible at the minute. So our client was a little bit surprised when we said, OK, we're not going to focus on digital first. And the other thing we did by putting the learner first is we firstly ignored the question of what will the institution University look like. Then they leave higher education and they say finish and I can tell you my daughter is currently finishing her Masters. In case you don't know, some of these toys and the idea with Gengar is this first block of higher education could be shorter, and we can talk about that in a minute. Doesn't look as radical as it actually is. They could have gone to higher education. This is useful for a lot of students, but the didactical model essentially is built on this idea that it's enclosed. We help the student to kind of.