Content is in the sense of semantic content as basis for social connectedness. I want to know what it is about what it is for. In this case, social software software market. In the first step, it's about the well quality full restaurant syndrome. We were trying to do is to. I see the other people, but those people if I see that there are some groups of people. Clustered in a specific environment, then for me it's gets more clear that. I click on this specific hyperlink and then the system allows me to go there where the others are. Perhaps I can ask for specific support of an expert or for the support of the author or somebody who is The Who has knowledge about the content that is interesting me. Either this this person is online then you can directly interact, or we can also use remote tools to engage with that. OK, I go online and that's what he basically did right now. In real time there is social networks. What I want you to try to bring across was that the Internet is such as yes, a great information communication platform, but it still has a lot of untapped potential, and that's what we were trying to achieve with the system that you saw so that we can increase the involvement of users or visitors, but also help them. Also some more dynamic. So the three basic pillars are the full restaurant syndrome, so a busy site is a site which can be like from searches to engage participants and then online contextual chat. Alright, yes, thank you thanks. It's a lot about sharing property as such will be changing in future the way that we understand property and the first steps is here you can share your tree like if you have a Apple tree and I'm not. Look at where the nearest Apple tree is, where I can pick for free. It's a peer to peer. Now I read this sentence, I really liked it because it says social medias genius pretends to read our minds. Done with the recommendation. Can you involve people into doing something with you into, well, making things for itself easier? The best option for engaging with your. We will have more and more synchronous work, more collaborative work, more remote work than we have today. If I'm working with somebody else in the same project, it's fairly easy as well. How can we give them more relevant information while there are any anyhow?