So what are these holes in any dimension Dimension 0. This characterizes the connected components of an object. It contains 3 tunnels that can be productive. And the main drawbacks of this method is that it is based on the use of incident matrices. Plus more back for this method is that we have no control of the geometry of the resulting generator. Our new method, which is based on the use of pyramids and I will show that this new method overcomes the main drawback of the graphical method and I will show some experiments for 2D images. So now just some points to explain why we want to use this logical information within computer vision context. So the idea is that homology can be used to describe entire classes of images. OK, so in many domain of computer graphics and computer vision it is a common process to use combinatorial structure for. For example in rendering or computational geometry we use simplicial structure, where in each dimension cells are simplices. I mean that ices ages triangle destroyed one and so on in image representation. OK this night to show that when one wants to compute the number of of 4th of an object and there are quite many words, especially in computer computational geometry, algebraic topology and then one once is interested in computing generators of this homology groups, there are very less words and finally about computing noise generator. To the best of our knowledge is. So we start with a segmented image. As I said we, we compute hamala generators with very small majorities and all the nice properties that this generators they always fit on border of of the default. This Augusta method on the top level can be applied for any dimension. Operations of simplification that are used to build the pyramid. Reports for 2D images, but this is a first step that validates the method and the Arduino is to extend for higher dimension. And I want to point out that recently we submit this project which is so about computing homology within image context. So we will turn to attack different problem and see how this homological information can be used within image context with and we want to investigate the following point in particular. I'm also can be of interest to study how the powerful of this homiletical information regarding classification of images. Topological properties have been introduced, which are properties that are preserved by. So there exist several topological invariants an we mainly concentrate of homology, so for several reasons. So first of all it is classically studied in algebraic topology, so there's tons of books and many result on a nice theory build, so we can. You can see that homology, the powerful topological invariant for several reason. So first of all it is defined in any dimension and in the same way. And finally, when we deal with discrete data as we do in with computers as nice stuff with homology, is that an emoji of an object is directly linked to the structure of an object, which is not the case for any topological invariant like multiple groups, for example.