[0.0s - 29.0s]
In this session, going to do the theoretical part of the link data and services, the hands on for this will be tomorrow, in order that Marco Grebel Nick can come and give an invited talk after the coffee break this afternoon. I'm going to share this session with my former colleague Danny, to explain that I used to work at Casa Institute technology in this very nice building. These days I'm in London, and Matt introduced this picture for me of House of Parliament. Yes, I work there everyday, very nice. No, I work for now for a company called on to text that line I mentioned earlier has a has a graph database called owl M so that will inform some of the. Later material on services.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
In order to to get into the link data and services, there's one more fundamental technology that Matt didn't introduce because it's not a semantic technology. It's a pre semantic web technology which is HTTP the way that web pages get passed around is really flexible way to manage documents in general and their exchange across the Internet, and that is fundamental to link data. And also gives 1A means to have services and APIs OK to use that print to use that protocol in a principled way to offer functionality, not just retrieval. So that's really where I draw the line between these two things, linked data and linked services. Most of linked data has been about building principles and best practices for retrieving the kind of information that Matt was talking about. OK, one technology has gone a little bit further. In its GNU iteration, which is on the route to standardization, sparkle. So these days as that Proto recommendation is being implemented, one can talk about pushing data, not just retrieving it, but that's not a standard yet, and it's not something that we cover here. More generally, if you want to exchange data and ask for remote communication the way or one way to do that which will talk about a corresponding set of principles is over HTTP, what's called restful services OK, these are well aligned with linked data, and people are looking into this space about you not uniting rest and link data principles increasingly, especially this last couple of years. What I'm going to do is talk about the web technology that this sits on top of HTTP, hand over to Danny to talk about linked data, its principles and best practice, and then come back towards the end of the session to talk about what this developing idea of link services.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So HTTP it's a client server protocol, a term that we used to use a lot. Now it's so expected that it almost drops into the background and people don't necessarily understand what that means. In this case, it means it's it's stateless. It's a way to make a request and get a response, and that's the end of an interaction. Such client driven and it's asynchronous. You make your request, you get a response OK, and HTTP talks about how to encode those messages, the request and the response, and what should be expected from them. So every request over HTTP has a method OK and four HTTP defined a fixed set of methods which grew in the last year by one in order to disambiguate what's asked for in the request. OK, most of linked data is about what's called a get method, so if you know the identifier for a resource, and as Matt said, the way the way that you identify resource is. In the semantic world, just as in the web is with ur eyes, OK, there's this standard scheme for building global identifiers, so HTTP get requests will say please give me a representation for this resource that I identify. OK, that's not the only thing that you can do with HTTP. You can Conversely say put. I've got a representation for this identified resource, please update. Your server, in order that when people ask to get it in future, you give them this new representation. OK, so put replaces get, retrieves a resource put, replaces it. Post is a little bit more subtle. OK, it can add to a resource something that's growingly called post append. OK, so the name originally is aligned with, for instance, the idea of threads on the web. Now you have a discussion board. It has threads and you post a new article that becomes part of the thread. OK, correspondingly, I'll talk about in services. You have restful APIs like Flickr. Where you say there is, there are users. Users have albums, albums have photos. Photos have comments. OK, so you can post a new comment to a photo. You can post a new photo into an album, etc. OK post also allows you to ask for computation that doesn't change the resource, it's just computed with respect to it. OK, so you can make a post request and get back something that's computed with respect to the resource that you identify. Now. Put on post used to be slightly abused in some APIs. If I want to make a partial change to a resource that's already known, it has a UI. It's already gettable, but I want to change part of it. OK, people used to abuse put in post for this, which is why the ETF, the standards body that look after HTTP, introduced a new method called Patch and say if you're doing that, if you're doing partial update to an existing representation used Patch. If you're doing a complete change, do put and if you're appending if you're not changing what's there, you're just adding more information then use post. OK then finally. Apart from the agenda that you should will not worry about, you can ask to delete a resource. So you said this thing was identified. You've been serving a representation for it. It's no longer appropriate to do so that should be regarded as gone. So you say, delete this identified resource. OK, now for each of these requests. Obviously you have to identify the resource. As I've been saying. You have a header where you have various fields to specify things either about the resource that you're passing and or the resource. The representation that you are requesting back, and I'll talk about those. As well as the header. Optionally, there's a body, so if you're passing a representation, then underneath these header fields that specify the further information to the method, you can pass a representation. This is especially important obviously, to put where you're saying this is the whole representation, but also to Patch and post. Now, however, you construct one of these requests. The response is going to follow this pattern. There are a set of integer codes to say what happened at the server in response to your request. OK, so the first means to understand what happened in an HTTP interaction is to look at the response code, and we look at some response codes that are very relevant to link data that are part of the best practice that's been. Developed around Link data for exposing the semantic information that Matt was talking about on the web. You have a header. Again, it has key value pairs fields to disambiguate what's happening. Potentially in a body, so you might get a representation back, especially if you're looking at a get. You get a representation in a body. You get the Metro information about it in the header and a response code, hopefully to say to you. Good, everything was fine. Here's your representation.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So I've got some examples of each one. For retrieval, this is what we now call a web of documents or human web interaction. I know there's a web page, I know there's an HTML representation for me. Barry, OK, I know by splitting up the Uri that I know about into the domain at the front and the rest of it, which gives a path that I can identify a document that I want. Where Barry at the host, which is my former University. OK, so I make a request with get for that HTML representation. OK, as an example of the header on the human web, I can say I'm looking for a document to be read by a human and that human understands English. OK, so I said I'd like the human language in that representation to be English. And indeed, at my Institute I have a choice. There you can ask for Elena Denny. Probably still me if I'm still on the server, you can ask, give me a German doc, give me a human readable German document or English documents. OK, use the header to make that distinction. So when I make this request over HTTP I get a response. As I said, the first thing to look at in the response is the status code. And if you know what 200 means, that means great. It's coming to you. OK, if you need a bit of disambiguation 'cause you're a human, not a machine, you normally have a human readable version of that status. OK, OK? It's coming up then. You have the header. So in this case the header says has. When I understand that you made the request and I gave you this representation for Barry. It has a content type OK, which is the encoding of the body underneath. And in this case it's HTML and then the body is an HTML document, which is my homepage. It calls her. OK, now another example.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
I could. Instead of asking.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So here I knew. There is a web page for Barry. That web page the UR eye for it is just the identifier for a document. It's not the identifier for me. OK, there might be many documents about me. But there's a urri for me, which separate from the documents. OK, now when I ask for a representation of really Barry Norton. No server can send me down a wire OK, I just can't be teleported using current technologies, so I will not get back a 200 from asking for the UI, which is for me, which in our scheme is sorry.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Which in our scheme is ID in the path and then burying autumn. So if I ask for HTML, if I ask for a human readable document. For me, instead of getting a 200, I get what's called a redirect code. OK, here it's 302, will talk about the more common one in linked data. Three or three don't scale Denny. I told you it was a 302. So status is that start with three. Say I can't give you what you asked for, but you should look somewhere else. OK, So what this says is give me Barry. Now I'm afraid I can't do that, but you might want to look at the web document for Barry because you were looking for HTML. OK, a different request that I could make is to say, give me Barry and give me RDF. OK, and now it says again, Barry won't fit down the wire, but have a look here and you might find some RDF. OK, these are the identifiers that you are eyes for a web document and for semantic document. That are related to Barry, but that are not Barry himself, not me. OK, is that distinction clear? Because this causes a lot of arguments, it's difficult to persuade. Sometimes our adopters like Google and Facebook that there's an important distinction here between an identifier for me and an identifier for documents about me. But if you look at the kind of assertions we make on the semantic web, this is really important. If I say the Creator. Off you are I. The creator of the document. About me might be me. I might have written my own home page, but my creator, the creator of Barry, not a document about Barry. Well, maybe it's God who knows, but it's not me. I didn't make.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Myself. OK, to quickly fly through these before I answered any just to set up for the services. Later I could, for instance say put and give a new HTML document and again. I would hope to get something in the in the two hundreds. The 200 status is mean good. The three hundreds means look somewhere else. The four hundreds mean you did it wrong. The 500 mean I couldn't do it is my fault that something went wrong so I could also say Patch. For instance, you already have a document about Barry, but the email address is wrong. Can you please update part of it rather than update all of it? Put style.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And finally, you have these two kinds of posts you have post where I'm just looking for a computation and post where I'm appending something to the representation that already exists. Adding something new to it, and again, you're hoping for status is that are in the two hundreds.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
I think I so to say. One of the maintainers of HTTP. Roats in California. In California, we think PhD thesis that said actually this architecture, but not everybody understands, but they should do, and they should structure everything, including services and document retrieval. According to this architecture has a name and he called it rest. OK, HTTP is 1 implementation of rest Now rests principles he. Was not so concise as to give a simple numbered list. He had to write a whole thesis, but the community try to refine them down to a list and that list bears a lot in common with. Our right with the Community ideas of how the semantic web technologies should now be applied through link data. OK, so it says you have resource. Is that uniquely addressable? And then under so totally in common with linked data. And then it says use just these methods. Stick to a constraint set of methods and that's how you should manipulate everything. OK, so link data conforms with this over a subpart of the API which is just retrieval and we believe that link services should correspond to all of this. The use of semantics and HTTP together. So for the first of.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So I'm going to pass over to Denny, who tell you about the link data principles and then about the best practice and tools that are around it in the current state of play. So Link data part will be structured as follows. We will have a small view at what the link data principles are, then talk about how to publish data on the web and then close with how to consume data from the web so.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Linked data principles have been recently reformulated again by by W3C. Note the following four use your eyes to name things. Second, use HTP your eyes. You could have. You could also use other your eyes, but use HTP or eyes, because that's why most widespread. Fred, when someone looks up in your eye. Give some useful information back and forth. Include links to other your eyes in this useful information. We're going through their principles piece by piece.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The first so as Barry already mentioned, one of the major things in the web of data is a difference between the actual entity and the documents describing the entity. So far your eye for a person like for example. Here we have actually timorously instead of barriers, an example. You have this year I describe representing Tim identifying Tim Berners Lee and stating is described at this year. I, which is the actual UI of the document, or in this case, even in your L, so you can put this in the browser and resolve it and you will get the document back with the majority F data. I. Here we have an hash at the end. This is the additional thing, so the UI is slightly different. The hash makes it still resolves by browser, but the actual entity identified as a different one. In this case it is just identifying different entity which will in the browser please resolve to the same document, but the document describing this entity that we have identified with this other UI. OK. So I.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
The second principle, use HTP rise by HTTP. Well, first, it's by far the most widespread used protocol in on this on the web of data. So more than 95% of all your eyes on the web of data are HTTP, your eyes, but. And it has a big advantage. It's widely spread and implemented in the beginning of the web of the semantic Web. There have been other arguments that we should use other protocols, like for example something based on ISBN for books or other domain specific your eyes. But the one big advantage HTTP has, is it basically anything that any device that can connect to the Internet has an implementation of HTTP. So we can give an HTTP your eye to anything it can resolve, advocate, do something with it, actually use the HTTP protocol that you have just seen in order to get representations back. If you give someone a protocol they don't know, let's say an ISBN protocol error. The machine wouldn't necessarily know what actually do with that, because it would need first to understand the protocol they profess to be implemented in order to do something with it. So on linked data it says use HTP your eyes, because in this case we actually know what to do it. We know how to resolve it. We know how to make it get with that and get more data about it. The principles also said that you should use free or freeze not free or two Sass and Katie website for just an error of the Katy website for free is see other and so. For example if you ask for the UI of an actual entity. The other free or free and point to the documented might help your describing the item. In the location header.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The first principle is when you look up this year I give back some document describing the entity that you identify. You should use standards for this. For example our DFA RDF XML you should use for an HTML pages are DFA embedded in it as measure show before and RDF XML is actually one of the few standardized ways to actually express this kind of data are DFA annotations in HTML and also now standardized, but not dead right is spread yet, and it's also. Encouraged use turtle. Turtle is a more readable syntax for RDF, but it's really just differences syntax. It's there's no, there's no other advantage of using the XML or Turtle. It is more human. Turtle is assumed to be more human readable in many cases, whereas RDF XML. Sometimes there's a bit of a bloat because of the of some syntax constraints. What you should also often offer is the whole dump of a data set. If you have a bigger data set so that the people can actually get the dump at once instead of having to access hundreds, thousands or millions of entities and the sparkle endpoint where you can actually query against for your. For the data set. So you could imagine, for example, the pedia book has a lot of data about basically basically anything, because it's based on Wikipedia, and if you would. Want to get for example to list of airports from there and the information when one one way to go is to use just this RDF XML look up thing to go for the list of airports and then get this list of 30. Actually a few a few thousand. Your eyes describing airports and then resolve each one of them in order to get the data about the airports. The other option would be to use Sparkle which is a query language that will discuss Liberty. More later to Sparkle and actually very the end point and get information you need in one single look up.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The following data principle is to use other your eyes when you're describing your own inner stuff you've seen when met, presented RDF that you can make statements about the subjects that you're describing. You can say very Norton is a person, but what is the UI for saying? What is the OR is what is your eye for saying person those again? Your eyes that can be resolved. Again, this is sort of what makes it a web of data. So whenever you describe something. You do that using terms that are again your eyes, which you can again resolve and figure out what does this term actually mean, and in the end you should end up I for in terms that. USS Human and use understand or the computer understands. So where the semantics of the terms are actually something that application you're using can deal with so. And one of the basic assumptions of the web of data is given any your eye for any. Entity. I can go ahead start resolving the subscriptions and find some web. Finally, things that we do understand, also identified by your eyes. So whenever we describe any entity, we can use those your eyes today again described in linked data principles and giving more data about themselves. Some ways to use your eyes at one hand on the schema level, which means reusing classes and properties. So when I say Berry is a person, I would usually use a well known vocabulary for this, like 4th and take the elect and take the person class from the photology will speak about a few vocabularies or ontologies a bit later. We can subclass or sub property such well known ontologies vocabularies. So instead we for saying various a person. We can also say well he's an instructor at a summer school. So we introduced a new vocabulary like some like Summer School 2011 and then we introduce the term. I can structure which we could say is a subclass of person because all instructors are also five persons. We can use equivalence on those classes and properties so we can use our own vocabulary, but we can map it to external vocabularies and say this is actually the same class as the others are using. But I'm still prefer to use my own vocabularies for my for my export. There may be different reasons why you want to do that. For example, you might not want to commit completely to an external vocabulary, but rather have it into your own control and then map later to an external. Vocabulary, for example, the tool might give restrictions on under way. You can actually introduce you external your eyes and so on and so on. In general you should try to dial Trafford directory, use classes and properties from the outside web instead of mapping them, because it just makes life simpler for the tools but. There is no. The tools should be able to deal with things like equivalence. Scotts is slightly different. It doesn't have such a strong semantics as our DFS does. And here you can basically say that two terms are related to each other in a much less formal way. So you can say, well, it's something like this, but it's a bit broader or it's narrower than this term that we actually using here. So this is for classes and properties at the instance level we can also again directly use the term. We can make a see also in RDF S, which actually means. Another document that describes something about this entity. Or we can same asset as well, which means there is another Euro I which is the same entity as the UI identifying. So sorry that the other year I actually identifies the same entity as this year I. This is what same as states. Again, there can be different reasons why you would like to use external your eyes or why you would not like to use external your eyes when you use an external. Your I first you commit yourself to this external UI an if it's not under your control and external UI for disappears because the server breaks down or change is what it was supposed to mean, which is not a good thing, but it happens. You actually committed to it and it's you suddenly using. Your eye for different thing. To give one example for a long time and it is, it's now practice that we use your eyes based on Wikipedia, DB pedia for example, the stairs and a lot of tools in the semantic web on the web of data actually used to be pedia. Your eyes to express things. But if you look at any history of an article like Paris you will see that at some point it meant Paris France and then later changed to Paris, TX and then look at later changed to disambiguation page between the two. And so the actual Wikipedia article that is accessible through the URL has changed its its topic overtime, and if you just directly reuse it and throw the whole data into a triple store, you actually have run into problems of knowing which Paris is really meant. If instead to use same as you have only this one statement to actually change it and be more in control of what your eyes mean. So it's really up to actually task where you want to, how to use it or not. OK. So these are the link data principles, so we have questions. Until here I was completely confused now. Yes. To resolve saying your right to different pages based on authentication, for example, if it's not an open door, yes, yes so. You basically it's part of HDP, so you can send different header information. You can send auto authentication with this and based on that you can get different responses back. So it's just like on the web today as well. If you're looking for a website you can use HTTP in order to be I've authentify door for an get different set of information back and there is a proposal to actually do this in order to implement privacy. For example for social semantic web solution. Where to combine HTTP and SSL in order to give more or less information based on if you know the person or not? Answerhttps.info for combined. It is kind of thing in order to so. So for example, if I have a full file where I have my friends listed and one of these friends makes requests to it, my server could actually decide how I can give him more information than a random stranger asking for this info. So asking for this data. More questions.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So in the first step we said give useful information back. Whenever you save you I. But what does this actually mean to give useful information? I mean what's useful. So there is no single solution for this question and it really depends again on your use case as usual. Here are a few things you can think about when deciding on what is useful for returning for question, so there's something called the immediate description order, concise, bounded description about an entity which is to give back all triples that have the entity as a subject. So whenever you have, it is subject, give those back. This is like the first starting point. This is what a lot of the systems to automatically. The second thing is to give back links back to. Those are those triples that have the entity that you're requesting as an object in the object space. It is redundant because obviously does appear also there where you request those triples with the subject space, but it also bidirectional traversal. So if someone actually browses the web of data, you can not only go forward through the data, but you can also go where this entity is linked to from. On the other hand. It might lead to really really big graphs, so if you imagine, for example, University website with some. I don't know 30,000 people are in students working there in each of those students might have small, triple saying is student at the University. But if you ask for the University ID itself, which you really want, all those 30,000 students back, it gives a pretty long list in this case, so it's not always a good idea to give all the backlinks you really have to see, and what that would mean in your case. Related descriptions, sometimes some. Some pieces of RDF are so related to an entity that does not make sense not to give it back, even though then at none of the troubles dimensions the entity to give. One example. One of the ways to, for example, describe where person has worked is since, for example, let's let's take Barry again as an example. So he was working at the Katie until recently. How would you express that in the semantic web will have more about this tomorrow, but in general, what you would do is say that Berry has worked at, then use a blank node, which is an order that allows you to give more data about about a statement, and he would say, well, it was dedicated starting in 2009 ending. Sorry 10. I think ending ending in the summer of 2011, and so on, and so you can have more information about this, But this 1B note doesn't have all the statements that started to be node. Don't have Berry in the subject object property place, but still there are some as there still triples that are worth mentioning when you ask about him because otherwise you just give it. Been Outback and those cannot actually be resolved because you don't have your eye. So in in this case for example, it makes a lot of sense to actually return those as well, even though it's neifer and the immediate description on the back links. You can return metadata about the actual graph that you're sending back. So remember the difference between the Euro I and I put in the UI for the entity in the UI for the document. So when you resolve the UI for the document, you should not only describe the entity that is documented scribing but also the document itself. You should give metadata about this document for, like for example, the licensing for the data under which circumstances you can reuse the data. Do you need to cite anyone? When was this data created? How recent is it? Who's responsible for the creation of the data? Whom to Mail? If something in the data is wrong, etc etc. All this kind of useful metadata about a document, so not informations about the entity that you were requesting, but about the actual document that gives you this. Description About the entity. And then finally you have to decide which syntax to use. We already spoke about this. Usually you should give it back in RDF XML, but it's nice if you provide also further ways to. Serialize it, like for example triple like for example an free or triples. Questions here.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK, so how do we publish actually data of data?

[522.0s - 551.0s]
I'm their number of popular means, a publisher. This is not a complete list, so the most popular means of published data is first. You can just host RDF XML as a static file. Just write a file in RDF XML, put it on the web and it's it just as you would with normal. Is simple HTML files. You can include a DFA in HTML generated from existing systems like with TMS system, where you actually can annotate data pieces and then it would come back with the HTML file. You can publish directly from a triple store, or you can expose a relational database that you already have a lot of data we have translation. We're going for the points 1 by 1.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So publishing static RDF. In many ways, it's the most simple way who a few does have a full file describing them. No, no one has a full file descriptor. OK, this one person. Um? Do we have the time to actually write a photo file as in, as in the hands on, it will be part of the hands on to do partial photo. OK so this will change tomorrow. Yeah, we will publish it. I mean, it's also part nuts. Yeah, by the body and I'm not. I'm not actually getting to explore it, but you could. They could use the application to do right now. OK, so by the end of the week you will have profile. So that's a promise. Now let's see so. But the easiest way to actually create profiles is to write down the stuff that effects our image, which means you write to brackets. You write the whole things down, describe yourself, and then you take this file and publish it somewhere on the web. That's it. I. We forgot the best practices. What do you have to think about all those things, like what is the actual UI for myself? What is the actual you arrive at? AFFO file is ending. How does how do those two relate to each other? If you publish it only in RDF, XML, or should I also publish in an free then you would have to set up a workflow that makes the translation automatically. Or you have to keep it consistent by hand, which can be easily messy. And for files are actually those files that shouldn't be too huge, because if you want to, if you want an external site to sparkle those, you have to first before every query to actually load them over to the other place and moved in around on the web. So even though it is the easiest way. In many aspects, to just write down the idea of XML and uploaded, it is not really a sensible solution for many examples and with easiest I mean easiest for people who like writing XML files. It is obvious that biggest amount of people actually wouldn't find this way easy at all because you have to write XML files in your in your tools.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Publishing dynamic ideas AI is the second step that's going to be seen more and more these days, so we have CMS systems, content management systems like Drupal or Semantic, Mediawiki, or others that actually allow you to state that piece of the data that you enter into CMS. This does anyone not know what a CMS is. OK, so that you have a certain pieces of data in your SMS, you can state this should be exported as well. Not only be shown on the HTML page but also exported in machine readable way. So if you have for example a small shop or an outlet, you might want to state your opening hours on the website. So in the CNS you would have form so you can choose their opening hours, then click on safe and the CNS would take care of actually publishing these pages. But if you also want to publish it in a machine readable way. The CS needs to know what these numbers actually mean. It knows this anyway, right? Because it is displaying the status data under appropriate places. But see MSN is also semantically where can use existing vocabularies like for example. In this case, could relations to actually state that in RDF in machine readable way? These are the opening hours in RDF, which means that if you have a tool that innocence I DFA. You don't have to screen scrape the page anymore. You don't have to write an LP process to understand where is the time, but you can actually just take a look at the RFA. Take this triple and say Oh well, it opens at 8:00 o'clock in the morning and it closes at 6 in the night. And you get this information with a much higher precision than previously. Doing it with screen scraping. So this is the whole idea about using a DFA to make those annotations. It's the same thing as you would be doing with microformats.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Triplestores getting more and more widespread to actually manage your semantic data, so triplestore is. As. An application that allows you to manage your triples just like a data. It's just like database managers, relational data and triples toss turning to become more and more powerful in the way of actually publishing this kind of data, and so you have a number of advantages of using dedicated triple stores for these kind of things, so most of the stores allow the HTTP way of negotiation in different serialization, as we've seen before. So you can have a Ferrari, FXL or Turtle or and free can often processed buckle queries and provide a sparkle endpoint so you can actually ask query asking queries directly for information that you're looking for. And it can allow you to set up the holding data thing. So whenever you have a UI, a foreign entity that this would be basically dereferencing the sparkle endpoint type query which and giving back to result to this sparkle has a number of. Different, very modes and the most popular being similar. Being a select but the describe query in Sparkle actually says for the given entity, just describe it to me. I'm not telling you. I'm not restricting you in what I want to know about the entity, just give me a general description that you think would be useful for me. And then this part. Then go ahead. And this is exactly the same decision that we've seen before with publishing Link data about entity. We have to decide now. Oh, what do we give back? Do we give back all these things that we had? Where the where the entities in the subject will be also give back the back legs and so on and so on. So this is basically what describes is good for. I'm taking a triple store for publishing data. Has seen a number of advantages, but it has also disadvantages introducing completely new component into an basically into usually already existing infrastructure. So if you have a company that has already set up the same as it is already set up, their back ends with the databases and so on. It's not so easy to actually go ahead and say let's also take this triple store and just keep the data up-to-date with compared to the previous infrastructure. So instead of using triplestore but.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
This very often if we use exsisting relational databases and expose them we are transformation. The most widely used in this tool in this area is D2R which translates databases to RDF, so did Rory's. Takes a description of what the major pieces in the database mean. So what this table describes a class that those columns specific properties, how those? How those tables should be exposes? Are they actually translated to triples and how certain queries can be translated to relational queries? What what the tool should do in order to clean up the data before publishing it for displaying it and so on so? In the case is said often you do have already databases from which you transform a lot of your HTML, from which you would expose a lot of your data. If you want to also expose it in RDF to be available for the data, we can use a tool like detour out to actually make this installation. Recently a new working group was charted for the WBC to create a standard for those kind of translations. Does this happen in real time, like or is it like preprocess data and you expose it? Good question. So I just having just like four months with with this in small cases it's going to be on the fly. It's can be a good tool to run offline and use something more efficient at large scale. It's possible to do it on the fly, but you have a translation overhead. You have a database which is indexed in a different way than the graph structure, so it's not necessarily something that scales. Especially if your finger goes, translation would also allow sparkle queries. In those cases, the translation may just be far too expensive in order to perform a specific query and then run the query against something virtually created on the fly. So the last summer school that we did I came along very confidently with the Detour mapping for large data set for about 24 gigs of audio data and then ran a couple of queries and really brought my dreams. I'm good at that. But as Barry said, for small datasets for testing things out, this can work on the fly, but often you can just materialize it and then keep it. And then you have to task of keeping In Sync with the of the publishing. Do you have questions for how to publish datasets once you have them? OK, once you're happy.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Dataset There is one vocabulary that's very useful to describe the data set which is devoid vocabulary. Vocabulary of interlinked datasets. So imagine you have this data set, so just published it on the web and now we can say, well, OK, I'm finished there it is, but a lot of tools that come to your data set for the first time and start touching it. It might be really helpful for them to actually get an overview of the data, but going through all the possible your eyes that you might have is just no option. This would give a huge load on the date on your as public as a publisher of data. It will also give a huge load on the get an idea of taking child of the data set. So what what does is that it. Describes metadata about the whole data set so that tools have an easier time about using the data set. So for example, you can point to a data dump where on the system could actually just loaded dump down and then use it instead of resolving each of the entities headband, we can point to sparkle endpoint, which is really useful because there is no other way to actually connect your datasets with a sparkle endpoint where they can make much more efficient queries than resolving their things pass bypass. You can point to use vocabularies inside your data set, which is implicitly always in the data. Because for example, if I describe a number of people in my data set and use data for vocabulary well, I'm using the folk ability, right? So I can just follow the vocabulary from there? But if you have a big data set not only with persons you maybe want to know before hand, what are the vocabulary is used in order to see appropriate tools for displaying the data in order to use the proper tools for really gathering and and then you can have invite the pointer to the actual paper is being used. We can give a few statistical background about the data set like how big is it? How many triples are there? How many objects am I describing? You can say to which things do you link? What are the charges of the links that you pointed the outside world? And it can also provide overall view about licensing and other metadata that should be available somewhere. So White is currently member submission to the W 3C describing this vocabulary that gives some useful metadata about data set you are publishing.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK, that's for publishing datasets. The other side is how do I consume it? So let's look at.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
This part so. This is again not a complete list of possible ways how to consume link data and actually I hope that for the projects that we have that at least one of the groups will think about something that's completely out of the box compared to those free use cases. But they usually use cases for linked data. Today are browsing the data it asks, looking at the entities one by one following the links, just as we do with the normal hypertext web. Search over linked data, meaning using the additional metadata to be provided with descriptions of the entities in order to improve the search over those datasets compared to the classical search. And messing up data in order to exploited an integrated way and create new applications. Again, we're going for each of the points 1 by 1.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Web browsing. You know traditional web browsers, they show you a document they ask for an HTML page or PDF page and displayed in the browser. And they might have some JavaScript inside which may average at some dynamics. They link to other documents. You click on it, you get another document which replaces the one that you have in your browser, and so on. So you can actually go through the whole web like this. For linked data browsers, the idea is similar. You give your eye of an entity linked data browser to browser loads. The description of the entity, the IDF entity, and displace the data that it has loaded, and it is understood. Instead of displaying you the UIS, it usually should take a label that is attached to a Europe that is usually attached to your eye. So label can give you a human readable thing of it, but you've seen all the labels that were using for the people like the like for Tim Berners Lee Vista Cut Hash I, and so on. Who knows that this is actually Tim Berners Lee? That's why we attach a human readable label, and those are the things that should be used within browser. Should be used within application because the UI subserves are only for the machine to be identifying and to be unique. Comments can give further comments about the entity that may be displayed in some way inside of the browser forth. The depiction provides a way to actually connect the entity of a picture with an image and which can be used to for describing UI and so on. Um? So let's go for a few examples of.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Browsers tabulator is an extension to the Firefox browser. It's a whole bunch of JavaScript and you should try it out. In the break are tonight if you didn't yet, so tabulator takes this kind of data and starts resolving all related resources as soon as it finds one UI loads it altogether. Users to your users to labels to describe them, and then tries to build a comprehensive view on a data set that you. Load and it loads more more data as it goes by and you can click through the data display more and more and explore it. I find it extremely hard to use personally. In order to get not only because it's often buggy and it's really pushes to JavaScript engine in your browser. Far but also. It's it's sometimes confusing. For example, if you say the example here, we have to World Wide Web Consortium. Then it opens into its group and organization structure. But you might have in the World Wide Web Consortium. For example, a link to the director of it, which would be timorously. And then internally you might find again a link to the voter Web consortium and then you get. Tapped structure like this, which is actually recursive and it doesn't give you any indication that this is the same entity to someone outside of it, and it's just hard to browse through the data as it tries to display it all in one view. You can have nicer. Like views on some pieces of data. So for example, if it actually understands that specific point of data assist to seek piece of data about an entity. For example, subscribe with both. So have different views on the data and this is the full flow that we see here. You can click on it and since it understands that this is false, it can make and actually more adapted view on the data. It can take the 4th depiction displayed as big. It can give here for links for the for the entity or the person. In this case it can take the folk no slings. And list him as acquaintances and provide maybe also met. Provide also further links to to describe those persons that are mentioned there, even their images if they are available to the user through the system and so on so. What that would mean that for every and single vocabulary being used in ascribing your data set, you need a specific you for this or you take them all generic view that you have on the other side and you try to get into somehow into IDF structure. So this is always a problem with using IDF. I for you take a tool that is completely generic and then can do anything but which is then. Hard to use and because it is so generic and powerful. Are you tailor it to a specific use case and then you tie it down to a specific vocabulary usually, or a set of vocabularies which is in the original sense, the ontology of the application that you are using, meaning that this is what the application understands about the world, and then it can display a much more tailored view for the for the data set, but meaning that further datasets further properties that are not. Inside of the ontology of duplication there not inside of the vocabulary that the application understands need to be treated in a different way, if at all. I'll just be thrown away. I'm sorry.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Another link data browser is marbles. It's also a generic data browser and it has the nice feature that it looks a different whenever it loads the data from the web of data it connects. It still lets you figure out what are the sources. Actually better specific point of data comes from. So for each triple it says oh this triple came from this source and so all the marbles. The little colored dots that you see are the actual sources, so you often have. A piece of data redundantly on the web, and he can actually see which are all the sources that are describing exactly this tree.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Apple. Search SF set is usually keyword based search, but with semantics you can do much more with the search. For example, you can exploit data at 4, deal with ambiguity that you have in a data set that you have in words possibly, and decide if this is really Paris, TX, Paris, France or Paris a hero from the Odyssey. Yeah, from the Trojan War, so you can make queries over the data. Also that you can use such a can use things like faceted search and so on.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So to give examples about this kind of thing. So Sigma is web service. Then this was started at Dairy in Galway and they allow you to get really nice views about topics. So you search with such search entities by the labels, then define those entities and provide you an integrated you based on different sources that you can then take a look at it. You can connect on the fly while you're on the website and browse photo for the entities.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Another example is what Google does refresh IPS, so when you search for recipes in Google, you actually get small. Ways to filter it further by specific facets. So for example, you can say this at a certain ingredient should be excluded or included inside of your recipe, and that you have a certain cooking time that you have certain number of calories in. Edit your aim for other things and then it breaks down your the search list based on those additional constraints that you put on it and. And you can only do this if you have this kind of metadata, obviously because you have to some way to give it to the search engine in order to provide it with those fragments and.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Acid browsing interfaces. The last use case was the mash up. So many of these things have been literacy now. Has you actually have one data source to go from it? And you can go to other data sources, but it becomes much more interested if you really combine data sources from different places and then you suddenly can do things that you couldn't do before. So for the if you want one hand, we have a list of all airports. On the other hand, we have to list of weather information well by now we could find airports that we can reach easily from our home airport and then see what is the weather there in those places. But with linked data you can actually connect those things on the fly because we can certainly connect the regional information about the better on those ever pace and then just query for all places we are easily reached by my home airport and that ever nice weather this weekend. So we can create further constraints on the data that is beyond the actual one single data set that we've seen before. For this we need to do a bit more stuff, and it's not exactly clear how this really happen in reality. So on the one hand, we can for example, just crawl the whole datasets before hand, then integrate it into one big data set that we can query. And on the other hand we could also runtime dereferencing. So whenever we need more information as power specific item, we can just look it up. But this can be very inefficient if you have to look up several hundreds of information items just to get one use case then. But if you have different sparkle endpoints on the web and we want to ask them one query of knowing that the data is somewhere we have to actually think about how to federate is queries or a system has to think about how to separate US queries and sent into those different sparkle endpoints and how to integrate it all together. So this is all areas. Where theoretically? It's clear how it can be done because it's all in RDF can all be put together and credit, but practically we still need a lot of implementation to do here. We have to think about how this can actually be realized in an efficient and scalable way for the size of the web. For a lot of visualizations of these datasets also need you often need to translate it into some other format that can be used by a visualizer to show it to you. We will have in the hands on session or small view on a small tool called Spark which allows you to visualize it on the fly coming from a sparkle in Paris also assumes that we have those kind of sparkling points. OK, so for consuming link data, are there any questions right now? Yes. So you mentioned that displays keyboard such as usually based on keywords yet. Dimension within keywords and the entities. That's a very good question. So what is often done is that we take for example, the labels from those entities and try to find matching labels inside of it and then allow the user, for example to decide to disambiguate what ended today really meant. This is. But this is also still an open research thing, becausw. One hand, if your labels do not reflect the actual terminology that is used by the user. Then you can't really find it. What you can do in RDF is that you can connect an entity with several labels, provide aliases, provide preferred labels, provide additional labels, and then hopefully you catch them all. Allow users to add more. And so this is one way to get around this labeling about this. Matching problem or that you actually didn't ask if you have several entities of the same label with the same name that you allow the user to disambiguate, but. You just basically you disagree based on the context of your query. So what a colleague of mine did is that if you enter for example a query search with several items with several Trump's, it tries to find those which are closest together inside of a graph for example, and then using this information for disambiguation. But but really you need some way to ever describe the context with IVA. More more keywords, or to allow the user to decide what they meant. If they don't provide enough information, we can also do is personalized based on the history of use etc etc, but this is always somehow ristic that you're using in the end. In Semantic web, you always try to get back to the concept to the actual entity and move away from using the names, which are I fabulous are. Insufficient. More questions.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Then I'm getting giving back to Barry for the link services.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
OK, so there's a bit of motivation for going beyond just retrieval and motivating how you can build a whole application based on these kind of semantic technologies and the principles that I was talking about earlier. As a Brit, I'm going to talk about the BBC, and in particular the coverage of a fairly large event. the World Cup on the BBC. There were one of the primary places that people went to for news about this event, and they published a lot of information around games so you could go and look at the live information about games, but you could also go and look at player histories about which clubs they'd been out about their scoring records. All of this very web like information web in the sense of a large graph of information and at the BBC this was provided in real time too. Many millions of users using an architecture you might have seen this diagram around, which was heavily semantics based and heavily consuming link data. What I wanted to point out about this architecture is not the minute detail, but rather the red underlines. OK that you have APIs and services that made up this architecture that really were exchanging RDF OK, not just going out and harvesting a bit of RDF. And turning it into some internal representation which is non semantic and the poorer for it. But really exchanging RDF all the way and be cause this architecture stuck well with web principles. OK say part of the motivation of rest is that the web is cacheable. OK so this architecture used a web tool called Mem cashed. To achieve that high degree of scaleability that high degree of ability to handle load by using the semantic web technologies together with the proper use of web technologies. OK, and was a successful application and one which will be repeated in a bigger event that's happening in London next year, which is the Olympics. OK, so very large scale data architectures on one side a quick plug, the blue box. The Triple Store was our limb from auto text for whom I now work OK and at this level we have APIs exchanging RDF.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Now another couple of motivating examples to large datasets that I've been dealing with a little bit. One. Geonames has a lot of Geo. Data is in the cloud of linked open data. The other one Musicbrainz a lot of metadata about music information. Both of them have become very large by by a community based collection of data and curation of data. OK, so you have open licensing. You have use of tools like wikis to collect and maintain this information, and you have large datasets of the order of 10s of millions of.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Codes. On the semantic side, Geonames is exposed as RDF. It has a skos taxonomy of geographic features and. It has owl ontologies to describe what metadata is attached to what features. Similarly, in a project that I was just working on, the latest version of Musicbrainz has our DFA on every page about every artist, album, release, track. OK, all of those pages at Musicbrainz has our DFA in now and the ontology that they use which will mention again tomorrow is there music ontology? OK, a very large incompetent ontology.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
On the other hand, they both offer API's OK Way as I said before, you don't just want retrieval of information that you can identify. But you want some computation as well, so one motivation I'll give you for why that's necessary in geonames. Sometimes, instead of saying I want to know about this school or about this church, you want to say within this bounding box or within this radius, can you please tell me which which churches there are? Which schools there are? So you can't identify the information. You can just describe something that by comparison with the data set will identify some results and give you the associated metadata the same way in the music domain. There's a pretty popular technology called audio fingerprinting. OK, well you take a recording of a piece of music, run it through an analysis and produce a fingerprint. A small description of that recording which is rich enough that it can be compared with snatches of that recording. For instance with their Shazam iPhone app. And. The two fingerprints compared and the matching track found in the database. OK, now a query language like Sparkle as Mark described won't let you make those kind of comparisons without extension. One way to deal with that is to make an extension. So for instance the OGC have talked about extending sparkle with geospatial comparison, so you can say find things within about bounding box, find things within a radius. That's not really scalable to every domain and every combination of domains. OK, it's unlikely that you will ever have a music sparkle that lets you talk about acoustic fingerprint comparisons, and it's. Even less likely that you would ever have a sparkle which will have both geospatial extensions. An music extensions so you say, find me the piece of music that sounds like the file. Find me that other things on the album. That sound like this one. The sound like this track. But that were recorded in a different city or on a city on a different continent. Now to answer that query, you need to do reasoning both in the in the geospatial domain and in the music domain. OK, to reduce that to just being a sparkle query would require this. Extension after extension all to be supported together, which isn't feasable. It isn't the way that the world work. Pre semantics nobody extends SQL with music. Instead you offer an API. OK, so it's natural that both of these datasets offer API's.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Unfortunately, the bad news is so if you look at geonames, the first of these, they offer 36 operations in an API to do this kind of thing and we zoom into the columns in this table you see these are the representations that you can exchange with those APIs. Unfortunately, RDF is represented in exactly 1 role, so one of 36 operations at the moment will let you talk in RDF. When you're dealing with the API rather than dealing with resolution and querying the things that link data principles themselves govern, the best practice for. OK, so if you want to ask, find me. The church is within a bounding box. You have to use something like XML or Jason. One of these heavy, heavily populated columns at the moment. Why's it a problem? Well, looking at this three of these that concern weather which be my running example, you want to ask for the weather report within say a bounding box or nearest to nearest to appoint you get back a result for instance in Jason that looks like this. OK, now these key value pairs in a hierarchical tree like structure. So Jason is a little bit a little bit simpler than XML, but it's still a tree structure and it has this problem that Matt was talking about, which is all of these. Just like tags in XML, these keys in Jason have no meaning outside that particular API. OK, so when it says clouds here. I don't know that that's a cloud condition unless I know the API when it says ICA, oh. Can anyone tell me what that does mean? OK, great no one. That means an airport identified by a four letter code. Similarly, can anyone tell me what the value means LSO? OK, not not even can I? I can't remember. OK, if this were interlinked, the way that RDF is, then if I wanted to know what that meant it would be AURI and I could resolve it to find out what's meant. Yeah, this would be a predicate if I wanted to know what that meant it would be AURI and I could resolve it. OK, so just the way that Danny is talking about retrievable data. It makes a lot of sense for API's to be interlinked in the same way. So when you communicate things and when you receive communications back, if you want to understand something, you resolve it.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
So I'm going to talk about some principles I'm going to come back to this example, and then I'm going to leave it 'cause we need to get a bit of coffee before Marco talks.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
So. Principles that Danny just went through. The principles of rest. We have some attempt to bring them together to talk about how to make APIs using these technologies and just as dead.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
I'm going to go through them one by one, but pretty quickly. OK. The first one is if you want to understand an API. What can you get? What should you give to it? What should you get back from it? Even though it's more powerful than a query language, it still makes sense to use these graph patterns that Matt was talking about in order to describe what should go in the message.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Is. So as an example, this weather that I was talking about, we can specify the input by saying in the input as RDF. You should give something which is a point using the standard geographic vocabulary and Furthermore that has some latitude of variable which is related to that point as a latitude and some variable. Sorry for the line split which is related to the point as its longitude. OK, by specifying this you can tell that you need to give a 2D point. In a way that you couldn't, if you just look to the vocabulary. OK, the vocabulary this WGS 84 that lets you specify points and regions in space. Has many properties that apply to points, including altitude. OK, this specification says you should give me a point which just has the 2D which just has the surface. I don't care about the altitude. Specifying the output the same way allows us to say that output will have a weather observation. OK, it will have particular features, so you should expect to be able to get know what the wind direction and speed are. It will use the existing vocabulary of geonames to tell you which country that came from. OK, so if you ask at the border, I always say if you ask at the German Austrian border, the Weather report could come from either side. The output will tell you which station it came from and it will give you the particular station ID. OK, so this. Graph Pattern tells you this is what you need to give, this is.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
What you get? The second principle says the API should give you RDF. It should give you RDF if you want it, so you should use HTTP exactly as I was saying before when I described it with the accept header. OK to say please give me back RDF. This doesn't mean you can't still give Jason. Jason has its uses. It's very good if you're writing browser based applications. OK, but if you want RDF, if you want this ability to be able to resolve the resource is if you want the ability to be able to resolve the schema to know how how things are related together, you should be able to ask for a.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
TF in the API.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
I. Finally, you should relate the input and output. OK, so if you say. I'm here in where are we? I forgot Berkeley. Jet lag if you say I'm in Berkeley and the output says it's Berkeley. It's only 20 degrees. The knowledge that you should get shouldn't be 22 degrees or 22 degrees is a temperature. It should be Berkeley right now according to this agent is 20 degrees C. OK, so interlinked.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Two of them together. So in the running example, if you submit a point P. The output will include. That this weather station that you get the report from is based near. In the vocabulary we keep talking about false. The point that you asked about.
