So you know in random search algorithms, computing the directional gradients require the forward problem in your networks. Only in the orders of the number of parameters cubed so. And we got there fine. The curvatures of the loss function. So what other things can we do to improve the efficiency of the gradient descent algorithm? So just look at how to trick under. So cash is sampling of the training data points. So in a previous I would talk about we have an average loss that defined as the per training example loss average across entire training, Sir. They showed earlier by estimating a directional gradient has a convergence rate of also 1 / sqrt T. However, it's multiplied by the dimensionality of weight space. So no network, surprised functional Maps that Maps the X to Y, parameterized by set of weights W, and in this talk we're going to consider Delta is drawing from this wave space of dimension. And once we have our prediction from the model, we can compute a loss function by comparing our prediction with the correct answer, right? Case so one examples of those algorithms, called natural gradient, was proposed by the Marry in 1998. Again, let's see if we can actually derive the natural gradient updates from this constraint formulation. In the regression task we also consider a Gaussian output distribution. A separate view of, like less algorithmic view but more intuitive view of the Fisher Information matrix as we can think about what's going on when we actually measure the KL divergent between the. Right, so you're saying like estimating the Fisher information matrix. All in the natural gradient. Here we're left with the question of how can we actually find the best preconditioner matrix? So where we consider all the search directions are equally good. Why is learning deep neural networks hard? So the trick that people applied in practice is that instead learning on a single machine that we gather data and compute the gradient estimates for under our current parameters. There's reprioritization off on your networks, just simply. That's being limited projected by a set of weights W. Um Ann, in a backward pass. Is the outer product of the activations with the partial derivatives that we back propagate through the network? The second point, that learning is very difficult is that neural networks are not very smooth. I was not very smooth. By looking at a single layer, we can write the Fisher Information matrix as the outer product. Then computing the exact natural gradient. Image net I believe there was a 2% gap between the natural gradient, an SGD on the top one prediction. The networks has millions of parameters, so if you think about the most recent widely used models in image recognitions, those multiply 5 million parameters in your neural machine translation. So we're going to evaluate the neural network prediction after this perturbation over the entire training set. And then we're going to compute average loss. An if the perturbed new hours loss is improved over the previous non preferred version, we're going to keep the perturbation. We can think about, well, we're going to draw not just any random vector, but a random vector from a Gaussian distribution with zero main and with some traffic covariance matrix. And instead of discarding the data point that doesn't make any improvement, we're going to keep the data that we're going to keep the perturbation and add them to my weights, except which way they're going to be weighted by the negative of the loss function.