I am really at the Technical University of Berlin and that hungover 1st and from January this year you will be able to find me at Microsoft Research in Cambridge. About linear projections and Gaussian process reconstructions, that's actually the actual talk after this very exciting talk on affiliations. You never think Pascal enough for a visit day they funded, which I paid to new Lawrence in the summer last year, where actually the idea of the back constraints, which will tell you about was cooked up. Sort of recently, what he called the Gaussian process latent variable model. So here's the idea. OK, now what I'm going to do is if I had 100 dimensions in my head dimensional data space, I'm going to take 100 Gaussian processes and each of them is going to predict sort of the high dimensional data along one of the dimensions. I was going to show you an example on motion capture data to give you an impression of a high dimensional manifold, and I'm going to try to. Quite remember 30 something markers OK, and each marker gives you a 3 dimensional vector, namely the position. So I perform initialization of my axis with PCA, and then I sort of maximize the evidence of the Gaussian processes with respect to the inputs. Another thing is that because we sort of throw away our linear mapping from data to latent. Going from data space to latent? He just separate things. If you want to sort of generate sort of nice high dimensional objects, OK, so in that sense linear projections need Gaussian processes, OK, but the GP LVM needs some sort of PCA initialization anyway, so then want to do something different. This is called the Swiss roll. I have 100 dimensional Gaussian processes, each of which give me a Gaussian predictive distribution. A particular case what I've told you about is a particular case of the work that need learns, and I published at ICML this year where actually instead of having a linear mapping going from high dimensional data to the low dimensional space, we just have a neural network and RBF sort of network whatever you want. You need a matrix capital P which is of size Q * D, right? Why terms Y transpose OK? Alright, I want to be able to sort of recreate my high dimensional points OK and I want to do this linearly. So very often this is a very poor reconstruction actually, and this is also not surprised because you're approximating some some sort of manifold just by just by a hyperplane. On the other hand, you might argue that most dimensional reduction methods don't really even offer you a mapping to go back from your low dimensional space to the sort of high dimensional space, OK? I have projected linearly OK, but now I actually have a set of pairs of X&Y's. OK, so I can actually pose a regression problem. And Bayesian regression with Gaussian process is OK if you're going to do. I could decide to give sort of the empirical mean and the empirical variance at that point OK computed from the samples from the posterior, so that's it. However, one quite neat thing is that if we choose instead an independent Gaussian noise model, OK, then if you look at if you look at things, the posterior is going to be actually the product of the likelihood terms of prior. The product of two Gaussians is Gaussian and it has a Gaussian normalizing constant, which means the posterior Gaussian and the evidence is also Gaussian and the predictive distribution is also Gaussian. So until now, what I have told you is that I could use Gaussian processes.