[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon everybody warm. Welcome to all of you on behalf of. The organizers, myself. Marco simulator, yonce icons and villain you much. And of course a warm welcome. Also on behalf of. The people that took care of administration and the local arrangements and at the end of the day made this event possible. These people, as well as the sponsors, so I should in particular mention the European Research Council.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So as machine learning and mathematical engineering researchers, we are faced with bigger and bigger problem and these problems depend for proper implementation. So this. Realization inspired this workshop so we wanted to have an event combining machine learning with software. And more specifically, we want to look at new software technologies. And cutting edge strategies that enable machine learning and mathematical engineering researchers to tackle more an more complex and bigger problems. So, as you probably know, the event is divided into 2 parts. The first part will take place from today until September 10, and this part will features invited talks as well as contributed docs divided within two oral sessions. There will also be a poster session and before that post spotlights from the authors. And so they invited. So all the docs as well as the spotlight will take place in this room. The editorial of DRM Burg Castle. Whereas suppose this session will take place in building S. And more specifically, room 040, file 5 and I will show you in the map where this is located. Coffee breaks will be here in this alone. An launches for the whole event will be in Arma 3. So.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So tutorials on Thursday and Friday we have 4 tutorials and. One demo session and again before the most session there will be spotlights, so the tutorials and the spotlights will be in room South 03 whereas the demo session will be in the same room as the posters. Where is room 0 four and 05, so coffee breaks will be in the whole of this building S and launches again in Alma so.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
This is where we are right now. This is the Castle. This is building. S is just across the street. There are multiple ways to go there. Perhaps the simplest is if you follow the channel and then just turn right and you go to and then here you see this is the scientific campus and in front of each building you'll see a letter and it will be fairly easy to spot the right building and on top of that there are also indication signs. So I mean it should be. You shouldn't be difficult.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So I want to thanks all the invited speakers for accepting our invitation. We have machine learning experts which are also competent about software. And so we left from MIT. We left Jeff bezels, Stone and Stefan Karpinski. They're going to talk about Julia, and we are very excited about Julia, which it's a new. Basically, framework for technical computing that attracted a lot of attention in the last few years. Then we have Louis Pedro KOEO from the European Molecular Biology Laboratory is computational biologist. And yes also expertise in Python equal to a very nice book about it and he's going to talk about, I believe large scale images. Analysis In Python, then Steven Diamond from Stanford University. Steven as being working with Stephen Boyd and others on framework for convex optimization in Python against the Xpi. An algae will be giving a tutorial about it, then Pascal ambling. We'll be talking about Dino so deep learning in Python. Pascal will replace James Bextra originally was meant to come, but then unfortunately, due to working issue at the last meeting at 2 Council, so Pascal will replace him. Anne Graham Taylor will give a very nice introduction on deep learning is from the School of Engineering, University of Gals. Deep learning again is something that attracted a lot of attention in the last few years, especially in the framework of natural language processing, and we're looking forward to his talk finally. Hiwatt Vandenberg from IBM TJ Watson Research Center is going to talk about large scale optimization. And in fact, now I'm going to give the floor to him. But before I do, let me thank you once more for taking part to this event. I wish you a marvelous experience here and at the workshop, and I'm looking forward to interact with you on machine learning and software implementations. Thank you.
