Um, you see the title representation from theory to practice. An innovation as well is that it's producing Eastern Europe. So this TV is mainly for the European market and is producing Eastern Europe, so as well there is not a lot of transportation overseas. It is an integrated production line and there are no packing or unpacking office assemblies. You know are traveling a lot or discount things, so they say I want to use less energy when possible, but while ironic I would never compromise on their results, so they want to have the best ironing result while using the lowest energy. So as you see, Philips was founded in 1891. Well, we have sales of 22 billion euros in 2010. As you see, the mission of our companies to bring meaningful innovations to improve health and well being of people. Waste part of the wheel legislation that we have in Europe or recycled stainless steel parts and is recycled PP PP's are different is polypropylene is a different plastic than PC. Then the the bottom of of the the purple piece at the bottom of the coffee maker is made out of recycled abse and the blue ones. So I want to conclude with this the title of my presentation was from theory to practice. We started with this program. So actually we have delivered to the market some of the best ever developed sustainable products and we really believe that that will lead to improved business practices and new business opportunities. The second one is emerging markets 99% of future population growth will be in emerging markets. So actually that's in terms of how famous you can come, but it says well how your voice could be listen by others representing consumer interests. Now, in terms of creating meaningful innovations, I put this because what we have done in Philips we have started with Cradle to Cradle in 2008, but I don't think it's a goal. Obviously our success will be limited, so we really need to transfer those insights in innovation that is properly communicated and perceived, properly perceived by people. Well font on the Living Planet Report 2006 is quite old. What do you measure while in the Human Development index you make sure life expectancy education levels, purchasing power and so on. And that's how we have said we're going to set up three targets. It is, as you can see here is a product that was thinking on on the end or the future. It has a 0 Watt power switch. So we changed aluminium into fully recycled plastics and keeping the PVC VFR free stuff.