[0.0s - 29.0s]
And let me introduce now our first speaker with this Caroline roughening. Do I pronounce it well? She is director of Center for Women in Science and Engineering Research at Trinity College in Dublin in Ireland. She's also the Irish gender expert in Helsinki Group. She established this center as I understand in 2006 and is now successful in. Participating in several big projects, FP 7 projects. She is also a researcher and as I can could read her, her current research interests includes methods to operate structure change relating to gender within higher education institutions, identifying the causes of women, academics and the representation in science, identifying work motivation and satisfaction of academic staff. But I think that we will hear more from her own experience in her in her center. So the floor is yours. Thank you. Good morning, how are you? Today I'm going to talk about tinkering, tailoring, and transforming an academic organization, so we'll be talking about structural change, but via the model that am I developed or implemented within Trinity College Dublin.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the question, though we talk about structural change, what does it mean? You mentioned there's there's many definitions I threw up this one when I was thinking of this. So structural change in universities and research institutes, institutions means making them more gender aware. Grant sounds easy, doesn't it just tell people this is the way things are? This is what happens to men. This is what happens to women were different, but we've similar were similar as well. It sounds easy. I'll tell you a seven year journey for this if we can make people more gender where we're also saying we're modernizing our organizational culture and institutions were saying that it's moving away from the male model into recognizing that men and women work in the organisations. Men and women have similar experiences, but also different experiences, so that's structural change in our concept. And we're saying it has important implications for our equal opportunities are full use of talent that we're recognizing the talent that men and women bring to science and engineering. We're also saying that if we really address gender awareness that the appeal of scientific careers is going to be much greater to men and women alike, and also our quality of scientific research when we bring the gender question into research. Outputs of excellence of science will be improved, so if we can work on structural change, I'm making organisations more gender aware it has quite significant impact. Books. We're saying it needs to be systemic so it has to be totally integrated within an organization. It also has to be long term. It can't be just piece meal pieces of that's a good idea. Let's try this today. Or women are under represented. Let's do a little program. This is about really embedding the concept of gender within the organization. For this talk, I'm going to talk about Trinity College. I'm not going to talk necessarily bad Island because I know through my research and my experience that we all come from different cultures and we all come from different legislation and different drivers. But I want to illustrate within an organization what you can do. We can do things. She.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So when we're looking at structural change. What are the key elements that you really, really need to address? And I address daily. One is knowing your institution. And that means collecting data. But it also means knowing your institution. So for example, Trinity College was that came about in 1592. It's a very old institution. Women were admitted into Trinity in 1904. So the way we started to work was a male model of working. We know that, so that's knowing the cultural background of our institution and we collect data as well. Securing top level support. And that could mean at the national level, but also within your organisations. So how do I work with our proviced who's ahead of their Trinity College? Our Vice Province, province, sardines or header schools I engage with all of them. On gender awareness and gender implementation. And through that we are generating effective management practices practices for men and women. It's a peoples issue. So what did we do initially? There always has to be from my experience and knowledge that there always has to be a driver somewhere. I'd like to thank him. Actually, Larry Summers from Harvard, who mentioned I'm sure you all know women can't do science for a variety of reasons and it actually stimulated a lot of interest in Ireland in 2005 and our driver was Science Foundation Ireland who were one of the key are one of the key funding bodies in Ireland and they asked the question. Is what Larry Summers said correct? Are women underrepresented because of the long hour culture? Because they cognitively can't do science or maybe because the social reasons and they invited him. I think 11 institutions to review know your institution to review our institution. Find out if that's the case. If so, why so? There's always a driver and there's always timing. I think when it comes to implementing structural change. So what we did in 2005 seven years ago was data collection. We started asking questions. We started looking at where? What is the status of women? What is the status of men? So we had a quantitative data, but we also ask questions why what's working for you? What isn't working so well for you? We also looked at and this is an important thing. Previous reports in Trinity we had many reports that said women are under represented in academia also with actions. But I'm interested in implementation of actions. I think that's really important to bring about is implementating our actions, and then we also did a survey to look at everyone everyone's viewpoints. And we.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Looked at these type of issues issues, how clearer decision making process is our our institutional practices that have been developed from 1592, perhaps inhibiting career opportunities. How are our employment policies and procedures and practices and process is so we may have good policies, but how are they implemented at each level within our organization, not just at HR? But within the school level, within the faculty level, 'cause they're all subcultures in which we work. An unconscious bias. Do we know how we really think when we are assessing our excellence? Do we know how we really feel about what men and women should do in society? Do we carry unconscious bias into our assessment of our excellence? And then also these wasted opportunities and of potential development. And over the past seven years we've really implemented changes on these issues.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So as I said, no, your institution, this is our institution. Does yours look the same? Yes now baby. This is all our faculty, so it's a standard sisters diagram. We weren't too shocked to see it. I have to say and over here is our Faculty of Engineering, maths and science, but by knowing your institution, we've actually broken down. In particular, the science and engineering and looked at computer science versus natural science versus chemistry because each of them have a different picture and we're trying to understand what happens within each of the schools that make up the faculty that make up the institution. So that's knowing some of our quantitative data, and that's really important. And then.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Are qualitative asking the questions? Why has the scissors diagram happened so again? None of this is surprising, is it? Nope. We found these are the issues that women face, such as carrying responsibilities. It's a big thing. There's no paternity leave in Ireland, so women take major responsibility, career, insecurity of a research career, nonlinear career paths, even that path. I showed you there is still based on the male model of a linear career path moving from A to B to C to D and to my knowledge, women come in and out of careers. And the institution may not know or recognize that unconscious bias and isolation. That's a big one. So from there.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
We got awarded funding and it's been mentioned before. What are drivers? We launched Center in 2006. With these objectives it was mentioned just this morning the visibility of women in science. There are women doing science, but creating visibility is important and also the different career obstacles men and women may face the same things. As I said, men and women may become parents, but being a woman and a man they experience it differently, both at the personal and professional level. We need to monitor data without monitoring data. How do we know where to implement actions? Also, how do we know what's working well and what's not working so well and then the final one which is stimulating institutional and cultural change? That's the difficult one I have to say, but it's there and we're working towards it.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Zlata texts on this, but these are going to be on the website, so I left the text in so bringing together all our knowledge and our findings, I set up the center of Women in science and engineering research using this model of tinkering, tailoring, transforming, it brings together all the aspects of the quality approaches that we've talked about the legislation approach, which is tinkering that assumes. As of today, men and women are equal. Done, our legislation covers that Secondly is tailoring which is positive. Actions working with women within our institution. So as of today, we recognize in the past has been cultural and historical. Actions that have impeded women's advancement. So we work with them to try and overcome those at disadvantages that women have faced overtime. And then our third approach for the center is transforming, which will be the structural change or gender mainstreaming. Which brings together tries to work on every decision that's made within the institution will consider gender. So make it more gender aware. This was important to do. When I present this model to academics, in particular the scientists, they say this makes sense. So they're willing and an interested to hear more about what we're doing. We haven't plucked the idea from from thin air. It is a theoretical model on which we apply actions, and it's Reese's Reese model. If anybody knows through that.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So our solutions when I was thinking of our model, this is what I was looking at, what we're trying to do, remove unconscious bias from our practices. Promote our excellence through diversity. So through our people and through our science. Improving our research by integration drencher perspective and then modernizing human resource management. Now there really big things to do. And to do this in practice, I have to break it down.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So with the model of tinkering, tailoring, transforming, this is what we do. And it works. Since 2006, there's been a 14% increase in the number of women in our Faculty of Engineering, Maths and Science and a 1% increase in the number of men on the tinkering side. We have our legislation on our policies there in place. We are an equal opportunities employer. However, on the tailoring side of things, what I said is this is focusing working with women. And these are what they've asked for that they feel they are isolated. They lack confidence. So I've developed a program to work with them and so we personal professional development programs, career development, mentoring. None of these were in Trinity before we started wiser, and they're working with the individual, but they have an impact. There's a ripple effect across the organization. Men are involved in our mentoring programs on our career development programs, they're hearing the experiences of women. I've filtering it out into their own areas and thanks me. I have a cold. And on our transformative were involved in the European project on structural change codes at the integer project elements of this is collecting our gender or gender disaggregated data, but collecting it all the way down to workloads distributed within the school within a faculty. So we're really, really delving deep into how our organization works, not just the macro questions of how many men and women, but how. How do we do our research and to women ask for less money or more money? We also are doing an order for good practices within our schools. So what's working well? Who's working well? All this is for interviews, focus groups, case studies. Then we're doing gender awareness training an if anyone knows the implicit Association tests in one of our other projects, and we've developed a few implicit Association test switches to test your unconscious bias. Or do you know how you really think so? We have our senior managers doing these tests, and it's opening their eyes up. They're coming back saying I'm learning things that I didn't know I needed to know. And we're also looking at our policies and procedures and process is it's no point having good policies if we're not processing them deep down into the organization.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So through integer we are aiming to develop sustainable changes to improve the career progression of women. And through this we're developing gender action plans. Note some people go well, So what we do this automatically through legislation we don't have this in Ireland that's not our driver. So Trinity has taken the approach that this is important. So this this one. It doesn't matter what the legislation is, but if you have buy in from your organization they are willing and want to embrace this. So this is quite a big step to be doing and we're partnered with C and Rs in Francisella University, Lithuania. These are some of.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Key areas that we're going to be looking at from the big to the small. Our engagement of decision makers we have from our Provista advice province to Deans and Heads of schools. They're all actively engaged in this actively engages in there sending out emails they are promoting it. It's not coming from wiser. It's coming from the heads. So they they are showing that this is something that's important. And we are working with RHR to look at our recruitment and promotion process is we're working with the women an because we've already built that built that relationship with women over the past seven years. So.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
On structural change, we've, as asides being 14% increase in the number of women in our faculty, this is this is success. But there's also been a lot of happier staff within Trinity through the work that we do. This is very interesting. Picture from MIT and it shows that the impact, but also the length of time we can take to make change from where Title IX was passed, which is equal opportunities in the 70s. There was a. Massive increase in the number of women faculty in MIT. In 1999 was the study of. The status of women in science in MIT and they started implementing actions so they didn't talk about it. They implemented actions and there was a massive increase again, but it plateaued. And This is why it's really, really important to be doing what we're doing. It takes time, yes, but the evidence shows that if we have this on our agenda. Then we can make change and we do make change. So keeping gender on the agenda through something like wiser or groups within your organization, it has impact. So thank you.
