It's about factor graphs and I'll make the connection between factor graphs. Artificial intelligence is actually constraint satisfaction. In graphical models, I'm very I'm very sure that all of you are familiar with Bayes networks, so Bayes networks are these graphical models is the most famous graphical model where now the variables are typically discreet as well. To convert this to this different graphical model, which is a factor graph for now, each of these, for example, this is the probability of smoking or non smoking. Karere I did something on the side which which which is Monte Carlo localization which is applying a particle filter too. You will see that factor graphs when you show the graph. So here is a factor graph associated with this problem. So each the densities that are induced by solving these factor graph. Are typically non linear and so we linearize in a nonlinear optimization fashion. How to compute and do inference in factor graphs? 2 running particle filters an entire trajectory's, so there's a problem in robotics called simultaneous localization and mapping where you were not only trying to localize the robot, but at the same time build a map of the environment, and so if you run a particle filter, not just some location, but on the entire trajectory, you can optimize the map for each particle and see how good it is, and that's in the weight of the particle, so that's the idea behind fast slam. You take this vector graph and you say, let's let's eliminate one variable at a time. But created with 3D Lidar point clouds. You know, factor graphs are cool, right? What is called approximate minimum degree where you pick a node to be illuminated which has sort of the smallest degree in the graph that is left. Doctor promotion this is work by Kinny who's not about Microsoft Research and so here is the Saint Peters Basilica datasets. So this is the nested dissection algorithm and icing. So here's some work by Tim Barfoot at the University of Washington. OK, and so Michael took this idea and published incremental smoothing and mapping back in 2008. Aircraft carriers, so I'll show this movie from Ryan uses at the University of Michigan, but this is collaboration with Michael, which is, which is why they are using ICEM inside. A pose graph, so graph on the poses. So another ways to do it iteratively to use conjugate gradient, say to serve down the gradient of your objective function, but that can be very slow to converge. Well, because this objective function and it can be long and narrow, which by the way, the narrowness of it is the largest eigenvalue divided by the smallest eigenvalue is called the condition number. OK, so the game is to have an objective function that has small condition number, IE the best objective function is spherical and for which an iterative method converges in one step. OK, it's order N in terms of solving it, so we take this whole problem, which is fairly complex and dense because of all these loop closures. We solve that using the direct method, but then use it as a preconditioner for the hard part that's left in the hard part. Good so so factor graphs are cool. Some future directions and I'll stop. Which is brought to you by DARPA, which is a defense agency in. Well, who needs correspondence if instead of using Gaussian densities and quadratic errors, you use robust error metrics, maybe you don't even need to have a front end, you just throw all your constraints in in a big soup and whether they are correct or not, you'll have the optimizer figured that out, so he used that small Intel data set that I showed before. And here is the standard Gaussian noise model an if you have outliers here, 100 errors, it goes, it goes to hell.