Fluctuation scaling I will show. And then I will come to possible scenarios, possible theoretical explanations of these observations which are listed here, central limit theorems and strong driving random walk type of modeling and finite size scaling and I will end with a summary. One is the Internet where trivially the activity could be the number of bytes passing through a router. The question is partly what can we learn from? They fluctuate around some average number N. And then the activity at node I is the number of workers between something else at the time interval. Name that there are two universality classes. We have a result and Isler carried out. Analysis of stock market data. And the activity was. Standard deviation or? And then we have here. The average yield of these lands. And he observed to his surprise, this power law behavior. Published the paper in Nature with this title aggregation variance in the mean. This relationship is called today in population dynamics. In the statistical physics sense, which would mean that this is exponent should be then exactly the same for all species. However, this is a very general observation in population dynamics and we will see that it is much more general. And today it is widely accepted as one of the very few universal laws in ecology. It is stock market we consider stock. But what we see in the case of the stock market is a cane that we have a nontrivial result. What is special about this limits? We have already some guess about that. How is that related to the to other types of of scaling? The phenomena button is the time. What is physical meaning of the crossovers? Sending the Enron email databases is public and we have taken the Enron email database and and indeed we see fluctuation scaling in this database and the Alpha does depend on the on the time window an in as the time window goes to 0. If you have a driven system, weather fluctuations in the drive dominate, then everyone is moving together, so to speak, and the. Here you approach when the when the fluctuations in the drive. And cannot be considered as universality classes in the physical sense. Which is proportional to the degree to the power pizza. And finite size scaling also tells how this order parameter and the susceptibility skills with L at criticality. So if we choose as an activity, the number of apps pins. We consider Sigma function of this Delta T or all the time and it is a power law and before consider this Sigma as a function of the strength which is again a power law. This. Is that in the language of limit theorems? Vanaf Innovate trivia limiting cases. Ends there are different scenarios with least nontrivial fast. This Paolo relationship between the mean and the. So this is what we call ensemble. In the case of this ensemble fluctuation scaling. Indeed there is a power law relationship between the standard deviation and the number of and average and this exponent is then 1/2. But there are many, many further examples. And the observation is that usually you have again power low relationship between the average and the standard deviation, and here this is a plot where such. On the stock market for a particular stock. In particular, in Colorado, the daily traffic on 127 measurement points were.