[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello and a very warm welcome on my behalf to you all to India and to Hyderabad. Since I am though I am from Bangalore, I am an Indian. Lena is made my job easier giving the background, but we thought that these two projects are so similar and working with the intention of addressing the problem of drive. I got used to seeing the problem of diversity. We now call it the asset of diversity, addressing it as an asset. So this is the aim of living knowledge project in a nutshell, to treat knowledge diversity as an asset and exploit wide knowledge is diverse and then build towards some research tools that we are already two years into this project and have some interesting results. Anyway, I shared with you the. Basic come in. I done this. You are that alright?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
12 OK, that's still no website and it was a if we 7 fit proposal under the called 6.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Which we were successful at getting and that is the consortium. Now we have all the European partners and from India the Indian Statistical Institute.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Yeah, the basic objective was to investigate the diverse disciplines with a view of multidisciplinary understanding of evolution, diversity, bias and their impact on knowledge. So we have a multipronged approaches to understanding bias and diversity, and we have divided the project very knowingly or purposefully into methodological partners and technological partners because at least the project leaders and some of us felt that people have gone too far away only with technology taking the lead. So into this project we have included some methodological partners of which ISI is 1. So we develop a formal or knowledge model which makes it possible to represent, manage and maintain overtime knowledge that reflects evolution.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
City and bias. Find the goal, of course, is to create a deeper understanding of diversity. Ticking the interdisciplinary approach, combining the know how experiences from like I said, the methodology partners who are into Media Research into multimodal or information analysis. In theory, library science and of course NLP and multimedia data.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So we are developing methods of detecting bias, exploring the temporal dimension basically about knowledge diversity, especially with evolution knowledge evolution. I'm making them tangible and digestible by a set of what we call a Nugen technologies on the website. We have at least two applications, which I'll be talking in a moment to about those are already there for users to just play around with.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So the there are various research challenges I won't go through all of them since all the authors have turned up thanks to hold them, so I won't take too much time over here, but maybe we follow up with a detailed paper in a special issue later. In any case, the the basic research challenges were how we extract information. And then use it for modeling knowledge so that we can put proper handles on opinions and bias.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Understanding and detecting bias in diversity both in text and multimedia. We have strong partners in multimedia. Also seen it time to Southampton.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The knowledge revolution. Now we have the Max Planck doing good, the knowledge evolution and also the ISI is again a methodological partner to this where we do the evolution along basically along 3 dimensions or in these 3 dimensions are time, space and topical dimensions and we we follow that these through some huge archives and try to.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Then of course Sir, enhance search and retrieval technology. This is so includes information, aggregation, summarization. So.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Research areas are accordingly place so.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
In a nutshell, it looks like this. We are applying the whole lot of devious technology that we are developing into helping what is called a Sorin in Austria. They do media content analysis and they have a code book which at this point in time is manually done. They take or media content from Internet on a particular topic and try to annotate it and then try to put a lot of indicators that they have developed into the code book. And then try to answer some research questions, whatever their client might have. So that's what they were doing manually before the start of for project two that we have now facilitated all these things that goes on around there. We have facet analysis from India then we have multi modal analysis from Pavia, Italy. We have feature extraction, Yahoo and Southampton and all our work together would result in a lot of automation which automating the codebook which would help. So do their media content analysis. Easier and but the add on is that we want to use this whole thing to to sort of model of when they're doing media content, because opinion is 1. Overwhelming thing that comes out of media content analysis in any case. So this is exactly.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
How it looks so I won't go through.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So on the whole lot of this, like I said, there are two applications right now we're looking at the media content analyzer.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Find or which is following a multi pronged approach and they are.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
One is the future predictor. So the name sounds like that and everybody's browser like that. What future would be predict? No, we're not concentrating on predicting the future. This is the study of the past and based on the facts in the past could be. Yeah, give some trends or some kind of predictions. That's what we're trying to do. Our partner Yahoo in Barcelona is helping us with this. Searching content references for explicit mentions of plant is also for us to a large extent. Higher has a temporal feature to it.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So those are the things about the Living Knowledge project. I can say we have completed about 20 four months. After 36 months we have and will be concluding next February. So about this the Diversity Web workshop I. I'm certainly happy that we're all here and we would interact this afternoon. I hope to take these notions of what we started off with fact statement. Then when this statement exactly turns into opinion, and then when it turns into bias. And whether anybody can really model this? These are the open questions. Maybe we would have some answers and some discussions over here. I would also like to know, I do not know this subset, but we have been in touch with the Emerald Publishers to publish a special issue out of this workshop. If the authors are willing, then we could make a submission to a special issue of the Emerald Wine Journal and this could be open to discussions. Thanks very much.
