[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, this is actually just going to be a lightning version of the talk I gave earlier today, so apologies for repeating it, but I might shout in a different way.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So if LA Publishers Global standards for libraries and bibliographic data, this huge quantities of this data in a highly structured format available is part of the stuff that I've been just mentioned, we're in the business of publishing. This is RDF elements sets and value vocabularies, primarily so that that locked in structured, high quality data that can be released as linked data into the web, and we're talking about a few trillion triples here. The actual amount of data this. In library silos around the world is not known, but it's very, very large and it's very, very high-quality. So.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
This is stuff you've already seen. Open Meta data registry. I SPD elements. There are seven official languages. Stuff gets translated into more than that and some stuff doesn't get translated into one of the seven official languages.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
We initially started to translate I SBD. In Spanish and that led to a number of issues being identified. I mentioned this morning in more detail there issues of scope. What do you translate from a namespace? What kind of style do you use? Some of the developers styles like Camel case are not appropriate in non English languages and certainly not appropriate in non non Roman scripts. It doesn't mean anything. What are you translating? Are you translating the source documentation of the standard or its namespace representation? They're not the same thing. And you need to disambiguate the terminology that you're using so you don't use the same term in the same namespace for two different things, even though the urri distinguishes, it is simply not good practice to do so.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The result is we have some draft guidelines and that's not been mentioned yet, but I think we all need a lot more guidelines on how to do this stuff properly. Best practice. That's just showing you how much stuff gets translated. As I said this morning, we have to be able to control partial translation stuff that's only partially translated and left till later. And stuff that's going according to a lot of different local schedules. Some translations come out really quickly, others take years and we think it should all be open so that people can see what the work in progress actually is.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And one of the things that it was developed to assist with an translations. These are all bibliographical cataloging standards, so we have a multilingual dictionary which is intended for authoritative translations of IFLA cataloging standards and documentation. I can see some problems arising from this. It's primarily aimed at standards developers, for example, and not web developers or link data developers or end users, so this may throw up a few more issues.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And that's just an indication of some of the languages that we're dealing with, including a non Roman scripts etc. And notice also the number of alternative labels that are there. This is going to become a big issue even within a standardized vocabulary. Alternative labels are absolutely necessary.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Ask me.
