Well, you actually have a design that is efficient over the old range of your. Deal with a unique design point design optimization. Here, the parrot parrot or front, as well as the Nash equilibrium, and in this case you can see, as I said earlier on that Nash equilibrium is optimal in the parito sense as well. Plots what uses that average lift is mainly affected by injection angles, so this gives you your first match player, whereas Live via since they are affected by frequency affect. So the challenge of the problem was the unsteady computation really. But obviously this paradigma is applicable to any other application. It's not only the usefulness is, just that we had to go through surrogate modeling for this case. And well, as I said, this was really useful for us because we had to go. We've increased dimensionality where we're looking at. Of course you have to develop the optimization side of things, but you also have to keep in mind that, well, optimization is based on this design analyzers and these have to be as good as possible for the design for the problems you're actually trying to solve. I mean, ironically speaking, these are very efficient, but they also have major drawbacks. So if you can come up with designs are better than this at a fraction of the cost, then well again is not negligible. And well, they are important source of noise and today this is a year very complicated matter for aircraft manufacturers. Well, again, if you want to tackle this aerodynamic problem really in terms of application, what you can do is take the designs as they were and apply some sort of flow control. And well, as I right here, this is cheap and just really speaking. It's quite efficient, but they also have some drawbacks. They pretty much answer all the problems we had before. An with design in data mining comes in being Andy, and I read only speaking. The unconstrained optimization objective problem, and of course we're using evolutionary algorithms to do so. Which as you know, provides a complete representation of the design space, which is very useful. In this case there is a Cartesian sampling. This rapidly it's just a matter of getting some surface response over a small set of known samples. So we basically have a simple single mean we've correlation function that is nothing but a Goshen. Well, most of you know everything about this, the big problem with this is that, well, you need to compromise between disciplines and we all know what happens when you try and put two people in the same room. So. Yeah, well we wanted to do was yeah, as I say here, eliminate this need to compromise well at first because as was presented this morning you have to do some pre work on this for it to be efficient and what we've seen as well is that for weakly nonlinear functions and while in Iliff problems lift for instance, if this is what you're interested, is a weakly nonlinear problem. And practically well, this was shown this morning. Well, the whole problem is how can we attribute design variables to the Nash players and this is where we've been using the analysis of variance. Obviously this has several advantages or the first one being that you can evaluate the level of correlation between each variable. These coefficients here that week also coefficient that gives you contribution of each variable of each interactions between variables to the total variance of the problem, and so this is what we've been using here because, well, if you know that.