[0.0s - 29.0s]
So my name is Thomas Eckert.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Inform the client centered Leipsic in Germany and I want to talk about easy Sorcerer lexicographical resource in the source. Unfortunately, conscious clicking sound I'm not able to do so. I use this as a version of the term and the subtitle of my talk is a collaborative approach, so I probably should talk about what other collaborators here. This is specifically the cloud in center in Leipzig, in Germany, so this myself and Alton. This is Bettina Clinic from the Semantic web group. At the University of Leipzig, and this is Sonja Bosch of the Department of African Languages at University of South Africa in Pretoria.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So what I want to talk about is a little bit about language diversity in South Africa. Of course, will focus on the source of data set that we wrote the abstract about. I will talk about the Bantu language model model in short, BLM and I will talk a little bit about cloud integration, dissemination and of course, we'll wrap it up with some work words about further work.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Um South Africa is a country we were just as really quite some language diversity. In fact, it's one of the languages with the highest number of official languages. Such officially recognized 11 official languages answers Africa, two of some others in origin. In Europe, specifically Afrikaans, which you can see especially on the western part of. I don't know, yeah, this the western part of the country, that space spoken quite a lot. And of course English. But all the other language, the other 9 languages are Bantu languages with sometimes several millions of speakers in this respective languages. So for example, so blue ever Janzer East side of the country would be easy, Zulu region and the Red Party as the region. We are easy sources spoken quite a lot, but also other areas of the country and I think the natural choice or the natural idea would be just have a look. What clothing has to offer for those kind of languages? So I in this case I just used six of those languages, which is exhauster is Zulu Norsen Dibella's, hasn't India Baylor Siswati and Spanner and you probably can't read it on the screen, but in the vlog we have right now 47 resources for all of those six languages, which is not a lot, especially if you think about that we have right now 1.6 million different records or language resources below. So this is something it's maybe not very surprising for European centric you project, but it's still quite unfortunate I guess. And I think we should change it and we did our part at least a little bit.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Some words about is exhauster. Is it also spoken in the Eastern Cape in the Western Cape regions on South Africa? There approximately 8.1 million first language speakers, which is roughly 16% of South Africa's population, is exhausted as an banter language. Specifically, it's an angry language which means here it has a conjunctive or talk with. We are bound, morphemes are attached to words, so morphology information is quite important here obviously, and together with many others. Also sponsor language you can counter to the Resource Curse. Our languages, which especially means that there are hardly any lexical resources, and right now there are no machine readable lexicons freely available for easy salsa, which is especially a pity if you think about the political impact that you have in South Africa when there's a real political will to promote the usage of span 2 languages in education and higher education. And of course it's quite tough to teach students the language if you don't have the resources available. So what we try to do or what we started to do was creating.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And is exhausted dictionary. This dictionary is based on data by the late J Lau and Sonia Bush from South Africa. Situation of the resource was not so long ago is the following. There was a room at the University of South Africa locked typically with a lot of couples in bills. Many index cards in those carports. Thousands of index cards with handwritten information about easy saucer. So you have an access to the resource with mean. You get to know the person with the key, get his room, open the cupboards and then you had those index cards. And well, you could have fun. So obviously in order situation that you want to have in the 21st century. So digitising work started some years ago. By the group of us on your Bush. It's not finished yet, so it's still work in progress, and we expect to be finished around mid of 2019, so hopefully at least definitely next next year. So what we have is a long list of words with information about part of speech about the noun classes, which is quite important feature of Bantu languages or in the Ubuntu language family of a singular and plural prefix of those terms. And a lot of English translations of those terms. So the current status is we have 4000. Around 4000 nouns were in 2007 adverbs and for all of the digitized words we have around 8008 thousand translations all to English language, so.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So the first step of this digitization would end up with something like this one here, so we have some spreadsheet. So for example, the first line would be the term up yellow and the second column you see it's known as the singular prefix of. This noun is is, so it is a below. The plural is it's, so it's it's a pillow, and it translates to the English lot or share. So quite quite an improvement over those index cards, but still, probably not the kind of format you want to have in a Federated infrastructure like cloudiness or wants to be in some respects. So that you was, how would we restructure this data? And we talked with some colleagues in life say from the segmented web groups who are quite familiar to you with RDF all based on Teologi is to structure data.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Especially with our colleague Bettina Clinic view unfortunately isn't here today and she works for quite some years on building an RDF owl ontology to structure morphological information. So called Moon ontology multilingual Morpheme Ontology, which is supposed to be an ontology to structure morphological information for potentially every language which is supposed to be extended for features that you need for a specific language family which, for example means for the Bantu language. Family information likes. And on class information that you would see on the bottom part, for example. And this extension of Scientology, we're calling about a language model, so it's specifically designed to structured data morphological, the information of a Bantu language, could be 6 or so, but could be other languages as well.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So what we have in the end is of course all the interfaces you would expect of an RDF resource. We have some dedicated web page where you could go through the data, click through the data here this screenshot, but you can access at RDF Copper Unilife 60 years of my really my favorite word of physics or science to be frankly only the only one I believe, remember Etsy patata so you see that Eva Tata has a prefix E which is a singular prefix. It has a root patata. It has of course, which is the next line, some string representation. It is a known engine slates into the English sweet potato, so of course you have this web page, but you have all the other interfaces you would expect from an RDF resource, so of course there's a sparkle endpoint you can access. And of course you can also download the data which is provided as a total file if you want to have it on your own machine and want to maybe combined with other resources you might have in Syria.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So I think what is the project that we did was, I think quite good example what you can achieve if you have different partners who want to work together and have a different expertise in different areas. So I for example have no idea about easy source and my knowledge about morphologies, also very limited, but we have the experts. We have Sonia Bush with knowledge and easy source are we have dinner, clinic knowledge about RDF and OWL and we have darkened myself knowledge about cloud infrastructure. And how you may want to provide resources in infrastructure like plowing or similar. So the resources currently hosted at the cloud in Central in Leipsic and also on GitHub. So if you want to download the actual total file you can download it to open band to subproject of the Moon project, when the resource will be finished somehow sometime next year it will be moved to the resource catalog of cellular study law. The source African Digital Center for South African Center for Digital Language Resources. Which is basically the counterpart of plowing in South Africa. But similar goals and similar approaches in this area.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So regarding cloud indication, would say we did all the things you would expect, so of course we are using persistent identifiers to address a resource. Also with the handle for the resource. Of course we have seemed your eye based metadata, so we will find our resource in the vlog already with the title. Lexical and morphological is exhausted data set. Not sure if he may find a more fancy or catchy name in the future, but in the way we did all the things you would expect of a cloud resources, so somewhere it can be migrated quite easily to another center or. Maybe even to another project you have persistent identifiers and you have also metadata decried describing it, but still it gives me a little bit of feelings that this may be not enough in any case, because this is a purchase works for a lot of resource types, especially also for binary source types. But Link data or linguistically data is of course to them or set a very strong internal structure. It hasn't in semantics, it is. So it has quite more information in it, and I'm not sure if there should be. Approach isn't allowing to integrate it more easier, more strongly or more deeply into infrastructure, and provide maybe more interfaces to work. Actually visit data. So if anyone has an idea in this area what to do, we would be very happy to hear about it and talk about it because I'm think I think thinking this is not really there. Our steps you can do with us more more into this area.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So dissemination is actually really a topic also beyond integration and infrastructure like plowing. All those is quite important, but especially in the case of this resource, it comes to my mind or to our minds that the target user groups of this resource is very very diverse. Of course there are researchers who could be interested in the resource, and I guess most of the interfaces that are provided for linked data like a sparkle endpoints are working quite fine for most of the researchers, so you can actually work this data. You can combine them. You can download them, that's fine, but it's probably nothing you can give. I don't know students in 5th, 6th or 7th grade, so you probably need more than that, like quite easy to use weapon portals which we created was our first prototype. Could call it, but also one thing that in the way contradicts, maybe in part the service oriented architecture that an infrastructure that crime cloudiness that you may have users that have not direct access to the Internet all the time. So you may have students for example in a country like South Africa. But of course many more. That maybe may have, for example smartphone but are not don't have Internet connectivity every time at home, but you just assume to have. So if you say OK, you can just look it up on that page, something that works quite fine if you have an Internet connection, but if not then well you don't have anything. So as a first answer to this question. We created the first prototypical Android application which allows you to download the resource and accessory source in offline environment as well, which could be for example, usable for students and maybe other research or other interest groups as well.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So I'm already finished kind of the first of what will be that we will still continue to work on the data, and this is especially the part of Professor portion their team cause other language experts. This is of course also means that there are means of quality assurance to done. We need to double check the data so the translations have to be normalized somehow so there's still work to be done. We're also thinking about combining those lexical data with open text corpora, which you don't have that much for easy source as well, but. I'll text resources which could be of course helpful. For example, for students of the language to know what term is used in what context, and what combination of words are actually in use and could be used as well. In general, we're seeing this project as a part of a Federated lexicographical of infrastructure which is already built on several locations in the world. So just idea to have open data service that can be combined if you want to have it, and if you want to combine data quite easily and without any restriction. So especially the license of the data is of course also where we open. One is the first prototype to show what we want to. What do you think of is? We use the Siebel data, which is, well, it's the band to open language dictionary. Which has also information or lexical information about Bantu language of several 100 languages where we try to do is first prototype to do lexical alignment between different bundle language records in dictionaries based on the English translations. Becausw, the standard procedure is that you translate some lexical resource in one bundle languages to English, but not to other Bantu languages. So you have to go to the intermediate step via source external language here, and we did some first work in this area, and I think this would be one of the ideas where linked data would really. Have some benefits that you actually have the linkage and you just build new links on top of it to create new value on the resource. And of course there still is the open topic of what you can achieve inside of the cloud infrastructure. Are there new interfaces are relevant that could be helpful to make it more usable in infrastructure? Maybe annotation services in the context of the app list annotation pipeline? I don't know. It's a building a part of speech tagger for easy sources. I'm pretty sure there's nothing in that list right now there. So it would be also something that could be quite helpful, but if there any other ideas where where we very interested in that and we're happy to hear about this. But for the time being, I want to thank you for your attention and if there are any.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Questions or remarks? I'm happy to hear them.
