So first we discuss two of closely related works, so Maji at all proposed to efficiently calculated, calculate the test scoring for the histogram intersection kernel. So you can cash some values and you can compute the same expression more efficiently. And then they also propose to do some piecewise constant or linear approximations, and with this they again gain some more at Test efficiency. You will learn a linear SVM there and then at Test time when you get the test vector, you take take the test vector, map it again in the space and then use the linear SVM that you learned in that space to calculate the score. We can again use the histogram intersection kernel and the score function can be written in this form. So this objective function is definitely non convex, But the good thing is it is still quasi convex so quasi convexity is that the function. It would have some local flat areas, so I won't give the proof here. Practice, we find that a simple stochastic subgradient descent based solver works quite well. The expression is given here. Well, in many classic computer vision problems, we end up with the features being histograms such as in scene classification and object image classification. We have local patterns which are also histograms and many successful approaches to these problems. Object Image classification task and there again 20 object classes. And there is a standard train well and test set and you can compare with other method using average precision for each class and mean average precision for the whole data set. So we use a very standard pipeline for the features, so we use VL feat library with multiscale dense sift features and a bag of features where codebook is generated using K means. We use hard quantization and we fix the vocabulary size to be 1024. Then on the next video, say 2007, database again in terms of performance. In this case mean average precision. So to conclude, we presented a method to learn SVM with the histogram intersection kernel by optimizing directly in the input space we we proposed a stochastic subgradient based learning method which is quite efficient. It leads to a very efficient, very nice and efficient test time classification time. We will be particularly addressing the time and space efficiency of this setup. W is the normal to the hyperplane, it is the parameter of the classifier which we are interested in learning. Often used more because it primarily depends on dot products between input vectors. But the problem with this with this method is that at Test time, the score of a new test vector which is given here by F of X. For calculate the score, you use the expression given here and you have to calculate the kernel function for this test vector with all the support vectors.