So I have our research group and semantic web is called a whistle where semantics available. We have been involved in several semantic web projects and one of them in particular is interesting because it was, it was related with a public procurement notices in the local union. Domain names are we are difficult. Suppose about fishing and have fell off the support in current. So really the web of data can have a. And the question mark here would be the balance between HTML World and the RDF world. I use is to produce levels for all the entities that you have that you are modeling and not just because I have seen some in some places that they advised only to use levels. Displaying levels becomes easier and faster if you you don't have to go to the to the Superclass subclass, fall off or something like that. Um, but I know that maybe sometimes it's very difficult to know what is the right level for data. Very simple data. Well, this is more an anti pattern and partner is not to avoid camel pics, camel case or similar notations in levels. We are now in the web of documents where the unit of information is our web page and HTML web page. It is human readable and the challenge is how to handle material work with places. Another best practice I would recommend this use multilingual literals between its RDF model. Only four or only almost 5% of information resources and information resources have one language that so it is really underused feature only. Can use XML literals and then we could reduce all the existing practices in Exton XML Internationalization. We could say that well, they they content represented by Spanish levels should be the same that the contents represented by English levels. Question because what is the default language? At this moment we could say we could put into this, but it depends on the context. Is there a way to declare what is the primary language of an RDF data set? Quality selection criteria from Highland attack. From the best practices from liquid open color picker and they say that well when we want to select a good probability that communities and contain descriptions in more than one language. And what to do if they have not localized? There is no Unicode support, they are only US asked me to write a macro later. For example, this how to put how to specify the text direction, the ramifications, localized translation rules etc. Completions I think they link open data is only offers new challenges. The group of data is not just for machines at the end the users are going to use the encrypted data a applications and reduces our delinquent. Data that appears in the multilingual context it contains and labels comments, human readable information so. Update that the unit of information is data, but it is meant to be mass in general, but also human readable, not only a machine. Free cards in an increasing adoption. About the best practices from liquid open data and what I want to do in this session is to review to have an overview of those best practices, but that are affected by the quantity quality of the data. Identify things that's very important and also, if possible, human readable URLs.