[0.0s - 29.0s]
Maybe it's possible, Yolanda, you came from the University of Florida.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Yes, the my background is not in semantic web. I have search group so much. Movies book. It worked and then it didn't work. So I have our research group and semantic web is called a whistle where semantics available. We have been involved in several semantic web projects and one of them in particular is interesting because it was, it was related with a public procurement notices in the local union. We translate it to the catalogue product schema classification on the compliment vocabulary be translated into RDF. We provided an endpoint in the sparkle and it contains a 23 European Union languages, so I have some background.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Experience. Lincoln Open later and summative work. The topic is what I want to say is we are going to let talk about data. Is that the modulation we are. We are now in the web of documents where the unit of information is our web page and HTML web page. It is human readable and the challenge is how to handle material work with places. But what we want to obtain, is there a web of data where the unit of information is going to be data and where it's like well, it's going to be machine readable input. It seems that it's intrinsically multilingual. So it's.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Is that the problem is easy? I mean if we can look as I've seen SQL example for example, we have two places in HTML. This is one page in English, another face the same, more or less the same content in Spanish without filing is a professor at the University of Oviedo, and we will transfer to translate that to RDF. We could say, well for example, the phone number is the data we are not interested so much in the web page, but in the data that contains that web page. So we would say, well, the phone number of 1 phone. It's a number so it seems easy and it seems increasingly willing. Well so it is only for the machines. But what I want to say is that.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
There is also multiple data, so it's not just data but also. Data that appears in the multilingual context it contains and labels comments, human readable information so. Just as there are different languages and conventions.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So in this previous sample, well, the phone number, it was easy, but what happens for example, with the position position of the of this feature for some of our Mr. Professor, it's in English, but family is a categorical. We say that in Spanish. So now we have to take into account that we have human readable information and that human readable information professor or categorical, depends on a language. So what we could say now is that in there. Update that the unit of information is data, but it is meant to be mass in general, but also human readable, not only a machine. Readable is what they want to say, so we remain with the same challenge that we have to handle multidimensional data and linked open data.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Thing is to talk about Nicola Penticton discussion is in most of the people know about. That is our growing project in from 2007. It has been growing. Free cards in an increasing adoption. There are some.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Publications or file differences. About the best practices from liquid open data and what I want to do in this session is to review to have an overview of those best practices, but that are affected by the quantity quality of the data. So that's what I want to do now on my part.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Say after having done that overview, I propose this age a best practices. Maybe they are not the best or the worst, but those are the best practices that I considered. We're going to stop, so it remains eight more slides. I'm going to.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Review one of them, each one of them. So the first one is designer Good urif schema. I think in all of the projects that I have been involved in semantic web and they could open data. The first step I advise is always to do a good schema of the ur eyes. Sometimes we have about the schema, then it's very difficult to change. So just cool your eyes, don't. Your eyes that don't don't change in the during the project. Identify things that's very important and also, if possible, human readable URLs. For example. This is a nice UI. Is the pedia for Spain and this very nice.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
One advice that one could gift, but I'm not sure it's a instead of your eyes, just internationalized our eyes. I'm not sure really that's so I will put a question mark there because those I am not sure if those are best practices or not, but most data sets I have seen they already used your eyes because I arise have several problems now for example. Domain names are we are difficult. Suppose about fishing and have fell off the support in current. Currently libraries, software libraries is difficult for my eyes and also the human readability. Maybe it's not so so easy. For example, this is that the pedia for Armenia. But if we want to I I I don't know if this is human readable for for us, but maybe for a million people is relevant but not for us. So maybe it's difficult topic so I don't know what to advise this moment.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
A1 advice One best plan. Another best practice would be to model resources of levels. What I mean is that we should model the concepts and not the particular levels. I think we found a sample is going to be easier to understand, for example.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
In the workplace of one would be University available. We could model that like this. We could put a Uri for University of Oviedo in in English and other ur eye for University parties, but that seems a little bit strange for no logical point of view. So I think that better but it would be this with a fun. The workplace is this you are I and this UI has two levels that one dominice. In in English and other languages in Spanish, so I think this is more logical and I use a device to use this model than the other model is quite good.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Well, that seems good, but there are also some problems when we want to do to work with this alrousan when we want to relate some doubles with other levels and that may be more difficult. So for example, in the case of discourse, except they use language that you are identifiable. So this may be they they break this pattern. And also another question open question.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
For me is a. What happens if we want to use localized your eyes for somewhere in the case of Armenia, we could put, for example reserves or mania, but also the name in the local name. Maybe this is a good practice, I don't know. I really don't know if this is a good practice. Also, maybe I don't have good practice. Could we do have a different your eyes for the different languages? Say this, we don't use this, so it has the question mark because I don't know if this is a good practice or not.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
I know the best practice that I recommend is to provide human readable information. I think this is really important and this is the. The sample of Tim Berners Lee of the Frights. It's important because human readable information machine information can also be human readable, so so it's important to provide that there are several.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Properties to use that, for example in level, is cost preferred. Preferred level, title, description, comments. So really the web of data can have a. Too much readable data.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And the question mark here would be the balance between HTML World and the RDF world. I mean sometimes we don't know where to put so much data in RDF or to let it to HTML. So the mixture of both. Maybe it's not so easy to know. Another advice that.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
I have been. I use is to produce levels for all the entities that you have that you are modeling and not just because I have seen some in some places that they advised only to use levels. For example, for concepts I introduce levels human readable levels for individual concepts and properties for any entity that we are modeling. Why because? Displaying levels becomes easier and faster if you you don't have to go to the to the Superclass subclass, fall off or something like that. So maybe if you have a simple level, it's better than having to do several requests to obtain a level. So otherwise this.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Um, but I know that maybe sometimes it's very difficult to know what is the right level for data. Very simple data. So maybe sometimes it's not feasible in practice. For reference, that must be paid on another study that I think is very interesting in that asset they they they were working on only 38% use A levels. So not not all of the entities cutter levels and also another. Well, this is more an anti pattern and partner is not to avoid camel pics, camel case or similar notations in levels. It is a levels should be human readable. So for example this is an example of a battle for example to say University available include University of this identifier and it's simple. That is not a human readable level is more or less criminal but it's more like an identifier than level.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Another best practice I would recommend this use multilingual literals between its RDF model. Has this possibility and we should use that for example, in the case of the University of Visual, we could say University of Oviedo in English in Spanish, in a studio in Armenian. I think we could have this multilingual liberals. So this is I think people should use this.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
But however there is a problem with using multi lingual details and this is a practical problems that sometimes using the right technology, sometimes it's not. I think the best results, for example with this example Pharmaceuticals Professor and Kathy Attical, we only have a multilateral multilingual literals. But if we use this very simple sparkle Equestria with Sparkle query with a, I want to obtain a son X that has position professor. In this very example model, they will obtain log results and this is a problem of sparkle. Well, I probably this is just the definition of sparkle is like that and the problem is that we should ask here with the language stuff. But sometimes, in practice that is not very just so this world is going to be. Another advice is to use a default literal without language stuff. So this is something that people are usually this is the sparkle query that works with this, but having to do this in practice is. We have some problems.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
In practice, in this same reference. Only four or only almost 5% of information resources and information resources have one language that so it is really underused feature only. Zero point. 7% of their use more than one language stuff. So this is very real underused feature where they most of them use English. Then on the very low use of other languages in that study I.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
I don't know if you know the weather data, but it was in the other study and another topic for me that's difficult to know if it's advice or not. It's what happens with long text descriptions in the weather data. For example, descriptions, comments. For example, in the international assist. So guidelines they advised not to use CDC data because the data is very long. See datasets here. Maybe it's difficult, so we. Can use XML literals and then we could reduce all the existing practices in Exton XML Internationalization. So this is good. But again we have to to know what is the right balance between RDS and XML. So to mix both models, maybe it's difficult and maybe having doing a sparkle over this models this mixture of models. Maybe this is a challenge so it's something that's maybe it's difficult. I.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Another best practice or Toyota prices to this content? Negotiation, internationalization, best practices. This is another best practices to for example, to use the object language. I think without a support is going to be better. For example, we have fun.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
We don't put that language. We could return, although for a language stuff. So for example here is professor in English Spanish. He needs in the Spain, in English and in Spanish produce with no other plumbers. If we put a set language.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Spanish Spanish with only the levels that aren't in Spanish and if we could.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
I said language in English. We adopted only that they lack the levels in Spain in Spanish. Maybe something?

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So that's a best practice, but I think that practice can have its own implementation useless. For example, in my case my projects we didn't use that best practice may be closed at this moment. Libraries don't handle that very well, so the impact is we don't use a. Also, a topic is that if we want to preserve the rest. There is model. We could say that well, they they content represented by Spanish levels should be the same that the contents represented by English levels. So we don't. We shouldn't send different compared. But how do we define that this content is the same? So that's an open question.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Whether they they last but not the last one, the 7th best practice I used advises to use also numbers without any language stuff. So I'm doing this for example in this case to use this level professor without language and the only reason for this is I think it's for to be easy to easier the sparkle queries. For example we have in this case we ask this query will. Proton pump. I think this is probably the only reason, but well, this may be some. Maybe raise some control.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Question because what is the default language? What we put in the default language. At this moment we could say we could put into this, but it depends on the context. Maybe it's a Spanish or any other context. It could be Chinese, So what is the different language? Or is there a way I'm not aware of? Is there a way to declare what is the primary language of an RDF data set? It was maybe it would be important to use to say, well, this is that this data set called the The Four languages only. For somebody expanding so ridiculous.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And finally, the eight best practices to use multi lingual probabilities. I have seen this. Quality selection criteria from Highland attack. From the best practices from liquid open color picker and they say that well when we want to select a good probability that communities and contain descriptions in more than one language. I. I'm not sure if this is fairly true because most of the vocabularies for some poor 4th are not more than one language and they are used at all, so I'm not sure if this is real.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And what to do if they have not localized? Because for example, another possibility is to use our local translation of those vocabulary. For example, we could extend we couldn't reach, for example, during code saying that the contributor but the label of contributors collaborators in Spanish. But maybe this is this, a good practice or not.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
I don't think this is what happens when we say ontology, then the cross lingual mappings and this kind of thing is so cold is really the same concept professor in Spanish and professor in English. Maybe it's not the same.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
But finally, all the issues that I didn't cover that are not related linked open data with multilingual multi languages are the Unicode support and three plus. There is no Unicode support, they are only US asked me to write a macro later. Doesn't have the possibility of language declarations and that's the price is maybe some problems, but there is also something that I didn't cover because I didn't use that. For example, this how to put how to specify the text direction, the ramifications, localized translation rules etc. In India, I think I really didn't use that, so I'm not an expert in that so.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Completions I think they link open data is only offers new challenges. The group of data is not just for machines at the end the users are going to use the encrypted data a applications and reduces our delinquent. So we need really are best. I don't know if these are the best ones, but we need a some cut lines or some practices or multilingual development data well.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Is this like say I wanted to say that I asked several people and most of these best practices are based on on this frequent basis of these people? Well, I also have.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Inferences from someone who wants it.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And this is the.
