[0.0s - 29.0s]
Awesome that everybody showed up again. Thank you very much. I think it's going to be a great event, but without talking too much, let's have a look. What non fungible tokens are? Let's look at some of the history, the development, the use cases.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And some data points as well. So I do understand that not everybody is from the sort of blockchain and etherium space. So just to clarify a quick refresher. We've got two bigger, larger, more broad concepts. One is blockchain in general and one is crypto, so we today will be talking about the technological aspect, the blockchain, the peer to peer Ledger, the large peer to peer Ledger, public Ledger. One thing that I want to point out. Is everything is being built currently on Ethereum, primarily because of the smart contract functionality. Now with that we also get different token standards. We're going to. We're going to talk about that as well. Now. In contrast to that, we do have sort of the crypto concept, which is more the trading the speculation. The secondary markets we've got names like Finance and Coinmarketcap here.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
If we have a look at two larger concepts, specially fungibility and non fungibility, these are. Well, it's it's a household name for us, but often people get confused. What non fungibility is and what it means. So we've got examples here and I really like the example of a wallet of a physical wallet. So if you've got a wallet, you probably have money in it. You've got euros, you've got 50 years, you've got hopefully hundred euro bills. So if I take my 10 year old Bilan, I swap it with with for instance, to my friend you're here and he gives me back the 10 years he gives me a different 10 year Bill. We still have both the same value. Right, so these two pieces, these two, these two 10 year pieces are actually interchangeable, and this is fungibility in crypto we've got, for instance, Bitcoin, we've got East, we've got all the tokens, they're all the same, right? So if I send him then Bitcoin, he sends me 10 Bitcoin back. We literally have the same value now in opposition to that we've got non fungibility which really just is something unique. So if you can't interchange it, we refer to it as being non fungible now with. In real life everybody is non fungible. I'm non fungible. Your non fungible. We're all not interchangeable or identities are non fungible. This building is is non fungible, right? But on blockchain we've got one example that really ignited everything, which is called Cryptokitties. Now this sounds maybe she's just cats on blockchain, but it's really a nice use case just to show what non fungibility is. So if you've got a cryptokitty and I've got a cryptokitty we don't have the same thing. It might be the same value, but it's not the same thing. Right, so it's the same thing with our identity. We can just swap ID cards or drivers licenses. They're all non fungible. So.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
If we move forward and have a look at the standards that govern this on Ethereum, we've got two bigger token standards. One is the EOC 20 which is the fungible token. The utility token and the other one is the non fungible year C 721. Now within the Zero X search framework we've got two bigger words so keep this in mind. One is the value Ledger, an one is the asset letter. This is going to pop up throughout the later presentations as well.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Before we move into history an and the development of all of these things is one thing that I'd like to point out centralization and decentralization. So these two words really have ideological connotations, but we're not going to go into that. It's more about the technological aspect. So what does it mean to be centralized? Usually we talk about stuff running on one machine on one server. Whereas with decentralized networks we talk about the larger peer to peer network. Now with everybody both of these have benefits and both of these have negatives. But in general just keep in mind that with a centralized option you probably trust that centralized entity and you have one single point of failure, whereas with decentralized networks this is spread out. We talk about trust Lessness and we see that there is no single point of failure. One thing to note is also that usually centralized solutions are faster, whereas current blockchain and DLT solutions are a bit slower. Now this is just something to take in mind to keep in mind. Strides are being made, but that's just how the state of the blockchain space is right now.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So a brief history of NFTS. It's really brief as you might know.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Bitcoin got started in 2009, but in respect to non fungibility we got in 2012 a concept concept called colored coins. Now colored coins were introduced as I like to call them Proto NFTS. This means that there really closer to year C, 20s then year season 20 ones. But it just got started right? So in 2014 what we got is so called counterparty. Counterparty is a layer two scaling solution for Bitcoin with Counterparty we also got non fungible tokens. We got smart contracts and probably the most well known example here is rare Pepe hope everybody is scared of the pepper memes this was going on way before 2016 but it got tokenized and blockchain eyes with. With the counterparty protocol in 2017, we've got a company called Everdream Everdream Soft. They produced one very popular but well known game book of Orbs. It still actually going on.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So in contrast to that, in 2014. Etherium launched with Nice Young in 2015, though we got a proposal for the first token standard, which was the Mercy 20 and you can see that it actually got confirmed in 2017, so two years passed before that got confirmed as a final standard. Now here Season 21 is a bit special here because it got proposed in 217 and passed in 2018 so things did move quite fast actually and it's actually due to these guys here. Two guys with Cryptokitties who proposed the standard and really brought it to life. Now this Cryptokitties craze ignited the whole space of non fungible tokens and unique assets on the blockchain and we got a few use cases. We got different projects working on this. We're going to have a look at the data later on as well, but the main takeaway here is that a lot of stuff is going on not just on Ethereum but also on other chains as.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Well, so numbers really dumb fly. Sometimes we can screw them, but they usually don't lie so.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
We take a look at the current snapshot, not just what was going on in the past years, but the current snapshot on the left hand side. You see a chart comparing transactions with Bitcoin. We got roughly 300,000 transactions in the past 24 hours in comparison to that etherium processed about 600,000 just under 600,000, but today's debate what's relevant is actually the smaller chart next to it here, see 721 transactions got just over 170,000 transactions. So this is actually quite significant, especially if you take. In contrast, the diploid the number of diploid contracts. Mercy 20 like set, it got launched in 2015 and to this day we've got 170,000 deployed contracts for EC20 tokens. In contrast to that here, Season 21, just over 1000 now the number might seem small, but I actually gave a similar presentation about 234 months back and the number was significantly lower. It was just over 800, so we've got 1020 percentage growth in a few months, which is which is not bad.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Daily active users is another metric that we like to look at. This is not just blockchain specific. If you're developing applications games, you're probably familiar with this now in traditional gaming on the right hand side, we've got examples like Talking Tom, Counter Strike and the PlayStation Network, and you see that the usage here is really in the millions right? The user base in the market for this is staggering. It's really big, but if we compare it to the daily active users on the blockchain gaming site. It's really miniscule, so we've got. The top one years nights just over 6000 and the bottom one. For instance, Crypto kid is just under 400 so you see the contrast here that we do have literally in the beginning, right? There's a lot of room to grow. There's a lot of improvements to be made, but I think the trend is definitely there. So we spoke a little bit about.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Tables in gaming, but what I want to tell you here is that these are really the two bigger examples. These are two bigger use cases that we have right now. Now it started out with Cryptokitties. It started out very very simple lean. There were no frills there, it was just very simple. But as time progresses use cases. Also they pile up and they become a little bit more elaborate and complex. So with collectables for instance, we're moving into licensing. Bigger licensing deals are being struck. For instance with larger sport clubs with larger brands like Marvel, Disney and so on. Whereas with gaming direction is also very clear, we're moving away from simple simple use cases that really overlap with collectables into more comprehensive gameplay. I'd like you to have a look at Neon District and Ember sort. No relation here, just really cool games that I personally like.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The point is that we're not stopping with collectables and gaming that the entire space isn't stopping here, and this is just an example what can be built where not just blockchain but really non fungible tokens can be applicable. We're not going to go into any detail here, but I would like to know that for instance art and luxury goods and for instance identity. These are really hot topics and a lot of not just money is being poured in, but actual research is being done how to how to bring these? Use cases to life, so if we.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Have a look. At these use cases, from a different perspective, we often get asked to why would you use blockchain? Why when would you use non fungible tokens? What's the? What's the general idea here and I think. This is irrelevant when we talk about non fungible tokens, or or or we do talk about non fungible tokens. Generally, when would you use blockchain? You would use blockchain when you have a trust issue. When you have trust issue among multiple parties, maybe fraud is involved. Maybe you've got corruption involved, but we also saw that. Locked in general is being applied to larger systems that have a lot of friction, so if you think about, for instance, a supply chain. A splashing system you go from raw material to end product and there's just so many steps in between their system. Connecting systems with systems and it's hard for these people to talk to each other, let alone trust each other, right? So this is sort of 1 application. That blockchain solves. An address is really well now with regard to non fungible tokens like set. We're dealing with unique digital assets and this is actually the first time that you really, truly get a unique digital representation of something so. The added value of using non fungible tokens is not the fact that it's a token, but the fact that it's different from a simple timestamp so it really mimics real life usage. Giving an example right if I've received a academic credential, let's say I receive a degree and I need to maybe send it over to somebody to check it. I need to, I need to open it up so that somebody can verify it. Now I can do this in a way that really mimics real life usage. I would be literally sending. Receiving stuff into my wallet and I'd be sending it forward. I'd be giving access to it, so this is really. This is really the biggest advantage of having a non fungible token so.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
If we try to wrap it up, this is not a you know, future prediction. This is basically just facts gathered from discussions and insights that we got and for instance the first one scalability. We all know that blockchains in general have scalability issues and I'm actually happy to tell you that this is being addressed that we do need bigger transaction throughput just to be able to address enterprise usage, but it is being interested slow, but it is being addressed. UX Challenges David is going to talk about this in more detail, but for instance on the right hand side you see a pop up screen from Meta Mask. Now we all have a love and hate relationship with with Meta Mask, but the fact is that it's really not ready for large scale usage. So we need to. We need to go through a few iterations to get past that hype and speculation. Another one we spoke a little bit about crypto, but the reality is that it's still there that people are still in it for the speculative reasons for trading. And it's OK. Just be aware of that. Just be conscious of it, and in my mind it's better to embrace it than just steer away and you know to close it up. What we see is going on in general with the blockchain space is sort of a two step process towards adoption. What happened is we like laid out the bricks with blockchains with Bitcoin. With Ethereum and the second step here that we need to take is actually provide tooling for other people to be able to build end user applications. So instead of pretending that people are going to be flooding in and mass and building solidity applications, I think it's more realistic. If the space collectively builds tooling, like for instance the zero extra framework and many others to be able to bring in developers that are not. Blockchain 1st and Solidity 1st and then these people can sort of build out the end user applications and it's at the trend is actually going in this in this direction. So this is it from my side. I'm going to thank you very much at this point, but with that I'd like to hand it over to Christian. He's going to take you through the actual framework he's going to show you a few features, high level features, and let's see what he's got to say.
