At the slow Nano conference in the name of University of Ljubljana and in the same time also in my present personal greetings. After simulation of this Spectra you can see in the first each compound in the top of the slide represent experimental spectrum and simulated spectrum. The distribution of different compounds in solid lipid nanoparticles. Group of our research work was selection of adequate surfactants or adequate stabilizers for the production of nanoparticles which have minimal minimal toxicity. We investigated the effect of solidly pizzano particles stabilized with the Lochsa Pool. First investigation was empty, T test which refers or which give us information about the cell viability and you can see that the viability. It means that when we increase the concentration also the variability decreased. Sept Day viability test we investigated the effect of stabilizers on cell morphology. The second group of our investigation represents interactions of solid lipid panel particles with model cells. Interaction of life cells with synthetic tunnel materials. Here is the cell membrane, but in the cell is still a lot of nanoparticles. She she followed the the. In the cells and collect in the cell. In the mitosis phase you can see and after some periods the cell divides but the nanoparticles stays nanoparticle state in the cells after mitosis and after that when after 555. What happened with solid lipid nanoparticles during the cell dividing and after? After all these experiments as I explained now, after three days, this is the longest period which we followed. Even after me ptosis you can see the cells with small amount of nanoparticles becausw they stay in the cells also after many dividing. My thinking is Ken particles at nanoscale or desired in better drug delivery. Really, under the condition when formulation of nanoparticles with different drugs should be precisely designed, designed, and performed. This is the condition one. Each individual component or the whole solid lipid nanoparticles must be examined. And cell internalization of dark molecules by solid lipid nanoparticles, which enable controlled drug delivery should be designed very carefully for particular disease or the diagnostic method there with respect to the nanoparticles which need high or very very precisely defined technological procedures. Amina reached the Faculty of Pharmacy, then Doctor Peggy Flynn Matias Sigma. The drug delivery systems have to have the right active substance for particular disease or protection of disease. This substance on the right place. With the right time and the right duration, how can I? This nanosized rack carrier systems are mostly liposomes, polymeric micelles, solid nanoparticles, even are produced by lipids, or. We have been investigating polymeric or lipidic nanoparticles for the presentation. They are much more has some advantages in comparison with others. In which the drug is interrupt either in the core or at solved. First parts about the formulation of track loaded solid lipid nanoparticles, then the selection of appropriate excipients and some substances which are needed for preparation of stable drug delivery systems, and these substances can have.