[0.0s - 29.0s]
Give German ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues, dear students. It's a great pleasure to greet you. At the slow Nano conference in the name of University of Ljubljana and in the same time also in my present personal greetings. I would like to talk about nanoparticles. As a carrier systems, it means nanoparticles which contain drug molecules, even small chemical entities or biotechnology bio technologically produced. GNU gnu active.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Components. Let's see the difference in size between the biological carrier systems like kilometer crowns, all little sites which are in the blood or. Not a technology based carriers, small or bigger microphone microcapsules or smaller nano scale nanoparticles, nano capsules, or lipid carriers. More like liposomes, multilamellar, or union lamella life.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Psalms. Today, some of Nanoengineered carriers are still in clinical practice among them. Here you can see liposomes which are intended for targeting drug delivery, mostly anti cancer agents or nanoparticles, which are. Use in as a contrast agent for magnetic resonance imaging. The number of carriers which are now under the development is much broader or in higher among them. You can see here dendrimers which are in very high in the search file phase of clinical trials the inference. This empirical preclinical and also some. Now some nanoshells for nanodots like named before this. The mere effect I am now in Pretty Little face of. Yeah.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Sting nevertheless he's the old drug carrier like injection tablets or ointments which you know this or than you than you are have to fulfill. A very simple criteria. The right active substance. The drug delivery systems have to have the right active substance for particular disease or protection of disease. The right amount of substance not too low and not too high. The right have to be there. The carrier should distribute. This substance on the right place. With the right time and the right duration, how can I? This. How it works? What is actually? Which doesn't move. I never seen anything. This. Mr. OK. So much. OK. OK, let's see, let's see. Now it stop totally please. Yeah. No.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Search, it's impractical. Particulate matter Particulated carrier assistance. You can enable neighbors. Aided by SU targeting or active targeting. 'cause you targeting depends mostly from the size of the particles or the charge of the particles. This can be used for particular disease approach, but active time. Do you think is enabled with the formulation of nanoparticles aided adsorbed or linked? Different targeting ligands which enable delivery of particles with the track to the particular organ or tissue. Definite cell types or even in particular part of the cells. This nanosized rack carrier systems are mostly liposomes, polymeric micelles, solid nanoparticles, even are produced by lipids, or.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Polymath in our laboratory and the Faculty of Pharmacy. We have been investigating polymeric or lipidic nanoparticles for the presentation. Today I selected the Lipidic nanoparticles becausw. They are much more has some advantages in comparison with others. Nanospheres are nanospheres are matrix systems. In which the drug is interrupt either in the core or at solved. On the surface, at Nanocapsules are physical assistance which consists. Core. And thin film around. Eat and drag can be dispersed in the core or absorbed at serve.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
My presentation is focused on three parts. First parts about the formulation of track loaded solid lipid nanoparticles, then the selection of appropriate excipients and some substances which are needed for preparation of stable drug delivery systems, and these substances can have. Toxic toxic effect and the subpart R interaction of nanoparticles.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
With the sex. Solid lipid nanoparticles are very attractive nanosized carrier system becausw they are. Composed of biologically very similar solid lipids and also with phospholipids as stabilizers. They have some advantage combined advantages of polymeric nanoparticles emergence and liposomes. They are very stable and simultaneously avoid of dare. Disadvantages the first work about the solid lipid nanoparticles. Did Professor Speiser and Jurik and. After that, many research groups in the Europe and around the world work a lot with the solid lipid nanoparticles. Day or his group. Published statement that solid input nanoparticles are are. Appropriate for incorporation of Lipo philic, hydrophilic or amphiphilic compounds. We were skeptic in the 10 years ago about this.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Statement and for the research work. For this purpose, we selected for Nitrox eat as a model drugs. This nitrox it is possible to follow to study this electron paramagnetic resonance technique and we did these experiments together with your groups at your Institute in APL Center. For this purposes I mentioned we selected them. Paul's small chemical entity with. Precisely known hydrophilic characteristics, and then the fatty acids fat effect Eastern with fatty acids or events. Spin labeled for sweaty deal, who?

[261.0s - 290.0s]
He experimental, a pair speaker of these four compounds in solid lipid nanoparticles dispersion. It means nanoparticles in water. I presented in this picture all this night oxite shows showed very or significantly different Spectra.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
After simulation of this Spectra you can see in the first each compound in the top of the slide represent experimental spectrum and simulated spectrum. You can hear that Temple can simulate it only with one with one spectrum. Lipofilling compound with two spectrum. This Easter with three and phosphatidyl choline with small office with four Spectre. This slides represents different coexisting population of particular compounds in part in particles.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
For the results demonstrate when we this X this Spectra transfer to to some numerical values. And present here schematically. The distribution of different compounds in solid lipid nanoparticles. You can see that the hydrophilic compounds. Like the pool with very low partition coefficient. Is or remains most remains in waterface hydrophilic compounds. Hydrophilic compounds was not in the core of solid lipid nanoparticles but remain in the water surrounding medium. Then the Lipo philic compounds which differ not not a lot with in partition coefficients mostly are mostly distributed in the core and some part in the shell be cause for the protection of aggregation. Also the solid lipid nanoparticles have at the surface. Will push for today holy. I put the officially compounds distributed in the call and end surrounding. So and after that also other researchers. Got the same results then then our group. Now it's this statement is not valid generally valid any more, so so little bit nanoparticles are mostly attractive for incorporation, lipid compounds or amphiphilic compounds.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The second. Group of our research work was selection of adequate surfactants or adequate stabilizers for the production of nanoparticles which have minimal minimal toxicity. You know from the literature, specially from scientific publication, that the toxicity of compounds in nanosized systems or nanosized materials today is very. A very attractive question. We investigated the effect of solidly pizzano particles stabilized with the Lochsa Pool. It is small surface active surface active compound which prevent the illumination prevent agglomeration of nanoparticles in the medial. First investigation was empty, T test which refers or which give us information about the cell viability and you can see that the viability. Is the concentration dependent? It means that when we increase the concentration also the variability decreased. We investigate it in two time periods in 24 hours contact of nanoparticles and two days 48 hours and at the beginning cells it looks like that nanoparticles stimulate to to increase the activity. And viability of the cells. But after that decreased much much more you can see in after 2.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Days. We compared two different stabilizer except to Tilak support, which is which shows very bad result. We select it also loot roll which is grass compound. It means generally recognized as safe compounds from the foot and back Administration agency. You can see that in control it means the cells without nanoparticles and after in the second group represents second group represents the cells. In contact with with stabilized with that role, here is the number for the variability. Not expressed decreased very much, but in contact of cells with solid lipid nanoparticles, we still locks up. All is the number of life cells significantly slower and also the number of the death cells increased significantly. The first experiment, which were the experiment which was done was the contact of cells with the locks up all alone in the same concentration as in this in the presence of nanoparticles. And you can see that the effect of of. He looks up all is much more expressed. It.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Sept Day viability test we investigated the effect of stabilizers on cell morphology. Under the fluorescence microscope and here are very interesting results. When the cells, the cells without solidly pick nanoparticles, you can see here blue colored nuclear. Surrounded with actin filaments, which are colored red, here's the normal cells without solid lipid nanoparticles, and this structure in the presence of nanoparticles, which are here like green dots, the new close state the same around not damaged, but in the presence of the cells with the. He looks up all protected solid lipid nanoparticles. You can see split, split it new clothes with nanoparticles in it. And when we tested. Sales and followed the nuclear. You can see the cells with neutral alone. There is no damage of the of the structure. The same with possible point, but the in the presence of the logs are full and nuclear are really really damaged.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
To conclude, the selection of even very small amount of excipients or additives have people have to be performed very, very carefully. Need a lot of tests to be really sure that this compound does not have toxic effect. The second group of our investigation represents interactions of solid lipid panel particles with model cells. Interaction of life cells with synthetic tunnel materials. Until now I can say generally not even scarier, systems is still very poorly understood. And it is only the accepted. It is known that materials in nanoscale dimensions. One cannot predict real behavior of this compound from when even we exactly know the chemical structure and the physical chemical properties. Nanoscale dimensions. Influence. Totally different and predict.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
My young researcher, Carbentus catch discovered very interesting phenomenon phenomenon, which is shown on this slide please. Keep look at this small. Dot it represents nanoparticles. Here is the cell membrane, but in the cell is still a lot of nanoparticles. She she followed the the. Passing of these nanoparticles through the membrane in 15 minutes intervals, nanoparticles outside the cell after the 15 seconds. Nanoparticles is closed. The membrane nanoparticles is in the cell, but after that nanoparticle moved out. Is in the membrane. Dennis again outside. It's inside and so on. So if it moves, nanoparticles moves in and out stay sometime in the membrane and sold, but at the end enters. In the cells and collect in the cell.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
The second very interesting information with with none of this moving of nanoparticles, this interaction of nanoparticles, who is the cell membrane. You can see that here are the cells. Which some of them contains a lot of high amount of nano particles. Up you can see when we start with this cell, a big cell which after the with very low intensity of florist fluorescent dye in the sales at the beginning. After 5 minutes of contact. Cells with nanoparticles after the 15 minutes you can see a little bit more, but after 20 and at the beginning is the cell in divide. In the mitosis phase you can see and after some periods the cell divides but the nanoparticles stays nanoparticle state in the cells after mitosis and after that when after 555. The cells accept much more nano.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Nanoparticles in this in cells are move. Moved up and down, left and right as you can see and this pictures. This picture represents in the micrographs in one play and you can see that the color ostiller color oscillates. In the beginning he's discovered very high, but after forming 4 minutes you can see the intensity is lower and after that the intensity at least increase again. Nanoparticles are not. In in one organelle or whatever, we can say because now particles are distributed through the whole cells and moved all.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Time. What happened with solid lipid nanoparticles during the cell dividing and after? After all these experiments as I explained now, after three days, this is the longest period which we followed. What happens in the cells with nanoparticles? You can see a lot of damage or death cells which are detached from the surface and the cells with quite high amount of nano particles. Even after me ptosis you can see the cells with small amount of nanoparticles becausw they stay in the cells also after many dividing. Cytus

[580.0s - 609.0s]
For the conclusion. My thinking is Ken particles at nanoscale or desired in better drug delivery. My answer is yes. But under the condition. Really, under the condition when formulation of nanoparticles with different drugs should be precisely designed, designed, and performed. This is the condition one. Each individual component or the whole solid lipid nanoparticles must be examined. On bio compatibility and on toxicity, which became now more and more interesting. In general, we must learn much more how to cells behave and interact with the artificial structures. And cell internalization of dark molecules by solid lipid nanoparticles, which enable controlled drug delivery should be designed very carefully for particular disease or the diagnostic method there with respect to the nanoparticles which need high or very very precisely defined technological procedures. Very precisely defined analytical methods and other approaches. There are very expensive. Production is expensive, so the selection of drug molecules have to be very careful and very precisely designed for particular disease. There is, specially for the targeting is not generally valid drug delivery carrier system in this work order.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So I would like to acknowledge the end acknowledge my coworkers, which we collaborate. This is a duplicate again. Amina reached the Faculty of Pharmacy, then Doctor Peggy Flynn Matias Sigma. She will present her research work in next presentation. Then five minutes catch me comedic. The politics from the APL center. This computers depend and two PhD students which were at the Capitol farmers in the planner in connection with the. Project 6 Europe.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Project. I suppose after Sloan, all of Congress you will find direct route to success. Thank you for education.
