I'm going to be talking about Lipschitz learning on graphs. The ones that minimize the largest gradient, right? But this is not unique, so let's not stop here. Right and then the third largest gradient amongst these, and so on. They said, just consider simple geometric graphs with a few labels. The two minimizer collapses to a constant. But one key disadvantage here already is that these are really costly to compute compared to the L2 minimizer. Right, so we're looking for methods for smooth learning on graphs. OK, so given two terminals X&Y, define the gradient of V with respect to X&Y as V, X -- Y upon the distance between X&Y, where the distance is the shortest part distance given by the edge lengths in the graph. So given a graph and a partial labeling, you want to find a terminal pair XY, which maximizes the gradient of the XY. And we also prove that if you just want one Infinity minimizer, it suffices just to make a single call. Given these structural results. That's the best known before, and in this result we show that you can actually compute the CPS terminal pair in linear time, and this gives you an EM algorithm for computing Lex and similarly linear time algorithm for computing an Infinity minimizer. This extremely simple case it's a star graph, so you have one labeled terminal in the middle. Something again we already found surprising that the whole theory and algorithms extend very naturally to directed graphs, just as it is. Why is it surprising? We in fact proved that if your original labels are off by at most an epsilon. And this is an algorithm that builds on interior point methods and fast Laplacian solvers. You still want to find the best possible solution. We show that you can perform outlier removal. Remember K can be linear in N, so this is sort of surprising because most of these sparse problems are hard. We label the original samples with trust values. 1 means trusted, zero is untrusted, and we use legs to extend the trust values to the rest of the graph. So we as we change the threshold, we get different points on this graph on the X axis, we plot the fraction of all spam pages flagged. For graph inference we show how to compute them quickly. The biggest question here is can we prove theoretical learning guarantees right in really in terms of learning learning theory, can we propose? For a smooth extension of E, whereby an extension, I mean the final labels you compute agree with the original partial assignment. So? And you should think of this as the Lipschitz constant of your assignment.