[0.0s - 29.0s]
I would like to talk about today about the story about the control, how the Organism would control the plasma level of glucose, where I would like to emphasize that basically we need to control our plasma glucose level in order to control the insulin concentration since the. Glucose is the primary physiological stimulation for insulin release, and in this way can insulin can actually work as anabolic hormone. And of course prevent katiba lism. While this is basically very important regulation and why we have these very redundant, very wide control of the glucose, plasma, glucose, elevation and compared to the North or West and not so redundant way, how we reduce plasma glucose? Actually it would emphasize that the importance of the insulin has a primarily anabolic hormone.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I don't have to actually introduce the plasma the the cell slides preparation because he's been very nicely introduced by people who actually helped me to develop it, so I will focus today primarily on the current stimulus secretion coupling model. I think we will actually hear much about. Also in the lecture later on, I will present some changes in this stimulus secretion coupling in diabetic better sell we say go to cookies accurately. Also, Herbert mentioned just right now and basically from this lesson. Actually, I would like to. Emphasize also that it's not only that the level of the vesicles that we have available, or the best the proteins that actually are present there is limiting that we also changed the calcium dependence and this calcium dependence of insulin release his against something to do with the plasma glucose level. When we actually talk about the slice preparation and all the physiological experiments in this context, we have to understand really two things that first majority of the experiment so far have been done on isolated cells and isolated cell. For me, or for anybody who ever worked on slice preparation actually is like that the Silman. So this the silicone people that Noble, this Dennis Noble introducing his book music of Life actually would come here and isolate one of us somewhere in the very desolate spot. And actually from this concludes how human is. Actually it's a bit of a problem so that's why they us. We are also the cells by beta cells are very social service that they don't like to be isolated. That's why. They communicate to each other, that's why they control insulin released by their gap junction conductance and of course another issue is that they are being controlled by neurons. We actually heard something about that before. Also in the routine are preparation. So is it going on no. Yeah, so current stimulus situation.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Bring model in better services that we actually need glucose, which I emphasize several times. This gets metabolised to ATP. And this ATP then can close the ATP dependent potassium channels, which would then stop the leak of the potassium and then deploy the cell activate voltage activated calcium channels and sort of flow inflow of calcium into the cytosol within actually cause exocytosis. Herbert was saying that better cell might not be an efficient cell. I don't think it has to be efficient. It's not a neuron. Actually. It's not like a neuron that would react and allanon whenever it's like a smooth muscle actually can actually. Take any position it wants. It is required given the metabolic status of the of the body or nutritional status of the body. So it's not only that we have to control what's happening after we load our body with food. It actually has to control the metabolic state. Also when we don't eat anything, you know it's like during starvation or during like larger metabolic demand, like during the exercise and so on. Therefore, it's this kind of like function has to be defined wider and it can really take any kind of position, not just like all or none response. Also we can see here when we closed the CTP channels and polarized the cell. This is like just the current claim recording of the membrane potential. We can see that when we switch from three to six millimolar glucose and later to 9, we can kind of TuneIn. And actually, if you will go to higher concentration of calcium we would get even higher activity in the service. So it's more like continuous. It's not discreet. So when we actually talk about where can be a problem to actually cause diabetes, we have several options. We can already have a problem on the area. OK, here on the glucose metabolism you can actually have defective Katie channels. You can just have a wrong kind of coupling to calcium channels and you can also have some kind of defects in the late late stages of the Exodus. Today I'm going to talk about the go to cook is accurate and the work which I'm going to show here is primarily has been done with Tobias Rosa who is also in the audience here. It's been a very nice work since he established the slice preparation in rats. This is not just another species. Basically it started complicated to do rats, lice I. I'm happy that human actually seems to be kind of like an easy, easier one then Red Rat is not is not an easy preparation but anywhere we learned quite a lot. But before I go to that actually I would like to emphasize. Again, the role of insulin in the Physiology of human Organism. We seem to have a kind of like a concentration of insulin. This is the old textbook. Knowledge is Burnley by previous additions. The new additions don't show that anymore, which is a pity.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Only because we see that under certain concentration of plasma insulin we become catabolic. So basically we start to use the policies and proteolysis and we start to produce glucose. This would happen in the tissue in an Organism which doesn't have insulin for example. And but what happens? For example, if we just move the border a little bit? So basically we just don't have enough better cell mass due to genetic factors or to the size of our body, because even it grows too much. Basically, that just cannot produce enough insulin to cause it. And then of course we can get in trouble and get kind of anabolic sort of kind of catabolic too early. The glucose used which we normally associate with insulin doesn't seem to be so specific to have kind of like this very distinct border where we actually can associate it with.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
When we analyze the the pancreatic slices from the rats, we notice that the diabetic tissue and diabetic changes are seen from very far already. I mean because that there is a big change in profusion of the islets in the Cotacachi. Slices we see that basically we cannot really bleed those animals to that we could actually clear the litter size from the from the islands. They are significantly hyper glycemic, significantly significantly hyperinsulinemic, which is that's why are there a good model for type 2 diabetes? Type 2 diabetes? We also found out and also previous studies show that the cells are a bit bigger, but there is another another trick to that. If you actually take these slides and put it into culture for 24 hours, so a bit longer. The next the next day they will not show most of the signs that I will actually show you now, because it is a compensating tissue and that's why it's very sensitive. You have to do experiments right away after you isolate the issue. If you put them into normal Licinia like around here. Also their function will get more less to the same level as before.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So where are the major changes? The major changes that we found that despite the big bigger cell size, these cells still have more both low voltage activated and high voltage activated calcium channels, so they try to compensate something they try to introduce more calcium into the cell for the stimulus, similar stimulation. Another issue is that basically they have modified electrical excitability that there is normal Vista. Better cell would wish to read better cell would be quiet at 3 million more glucose they.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Speak like at minus 60 or lower millivolts of membrane potential, but if you stimulated glucose and or to bottom it basically you would be able to see this kind of like typical rat like red, better better say like electrical activity. In go to Clock is accurate. We don't have to do stimulate them with glucose already at the resting conditions. They're pretty active, and they showed this kind of electrical activity already at 3 million more glucose. And this is probably likely due to the increased.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Kind of expression of the low voltage activated calcium channels.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So before we started out our analysis, the major view of what is going on with the better sellers is that in the GOTY accuracy that they simply don't react to glucose. You know they are bit hyperinsulinemic interesting, but when we expose them to high glucose, basically we don't get sufficient insulin release, but on the other hand non nutrient stimulation with potassium chloride and as oxide would actually given more insulin than the Vista red showing that it's made. Some studies suggested the glucose sensitivity is a problem, so glucose is probably not metabolised. Anyway, so we first tried that, so we used imaging approach in this case. And then basically where we could show that that in the normal kind of Violet which is shown here and this kind of like the colors here represent the calcium concentration when we stimulate the mid high glucose, actually the cells.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Activate themselves in the calcium concentration will rise, which didn't surprise anybody, but actually also this kind of activity will happen also in the go to Kakizaki Island. Here you see basically that some cells that activate in their show kind of this rhythmic electrical activity of calcium activity, which is typical for the cell that actually has sense glucose and metabolise it in any useful stimulation. So obviously from this experiment we saw that it's not the glucose metabolism or the mobilization of calcium does the deletion. In our experimental condition, cat has to be a bit more towards the late stages of exocytosis.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
How to approach that? We actually heard quite a bit about the membrane capacitance measurements today. So where we can actually establish the cell size just by measuring its kind of capacitance and every time when we add another another piece of membrane which is contributed by the single vesicle fusing. This is 1 and this is 1. The membrane capacitance will increase just a little bit. And of course in country if you do have endocytosis, you will have this drop in memory capacitance. We can also avoid many other parameters in this fact, so we.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And avoid metabolism of glucose. We can avoid CTP channels the way that we control membrane potential directly by using voltage clamp, and in this way change calcium in the cell and then just generate Fusion. We chose here the fifth forty millisecond duration of the past simply because it was enough to stimulate sufficient sufficient memory infusion. In our experiment, we didn't want to go into higher like 500 milliseconds authorization, because obviously we have several components of the ETC event already present here. So we do.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Such an experiment we use a train of 50 policies depolarizing from minus 82 zero millivolts. We actually fused quite a bit of vesicles in control. Certain control sells about 172 on average, but basically in the go to chisaki. Better Sir, this number was not significantly smaller, but what was definitely different is the way how these vesicles refusing and particularly at the beginning the better cells from go to cookies accurate seem to be lazier than than the. Control better cells. We actually studied this.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Further on and try to estimate the efficacy of calcium entering the cell. We know that basically if you control the calcium currents which is flowing during each of these depolarization, here we can see that there is much less current flowing in the control. Better sell. This is the first part and then they go down, regulates a little bit. This is the 50th Powers, produces smaller calcium current and go to cook is accurate. We said we have higher density of the voltage activated calcium channels and you see that this kind of surface. Above the curve here is larger than. In this case. When we normalize this charge entry and compare it park correlated to the capacitance change with the kind of produced by this charge, entry of calcium into the cell, we see that the control better cells are much more efficient in stimulating the exercises. We might actually not go into details of that. Just let us just compare how efficiently Wister better cell is in, how inefficient in away go to Coxsackievirus Ellis. We have we lost sensitivity for calcium here. We planned the experiments that I'm going to show you later on already and getting about from some some kind of technical reason. They were not so easy to do in a rat. So basically we try to reproduce.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Some things may.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Yeah, I just mentioned this last part here. This last efficacy calcium efficacy that we saw in the go to chisaki better cells could be completely abolished if he blocked specifically protein kinase C which was we had no idea. You know neither which kind of protein kinase seed is that. What is the mechanism behind but actually was acting quite quite well. I will not explain another more activity dependent potentiation that we also saw in this in this kind of. Better service because we don't have time for that, but it seems to be that this kind of like low efficacy is due to hyper activation of protein kinase C. Better cells in the slice can have a very different densities of voltage activated calcium general, so this is another variable that we don't want to have in our in our XP.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So that's why we decided to use slow photo release where you can. You heard about this method before. Today we have caged calcium in cages and when we shine with the UV light on this calcium cages calcium gets released and cell has to react. This way we can reduce the variability of the stimulation very much and you can have much more reproducible data. You will hear a lot about this this method in your speech of Marshall scaling later on when she's going to emphasize the role of cyclic AMP. So doing this.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Kind of experiment. I will not go too much into details. We can produce the kind of ramp like activity which is also shown by your before and in better sales in control where we don't add any cyclic AMP. We would typically get such a basic response and we can make a derivative here to see they are really typically two really separated components to that and if we plot the rate of capacitance change against the calcium change here we can get the kind of those dependence. Local concentration dependence. Which has kind of which is very reproducible among different better cells and has a very defined kind of like onset of the calcium concentration or half maximum rate, is also happening at the reproducible calcium concentration. These things that he just shows you comparison between the slice and the single cell preparation. So this effect actually we can also study in the single source, because it's sometimes much easier to use. So when we did that and try to reproduce the go to kissaki phenotype, long term exposure to the formal Esther PMA with this means like 6 hours or more and still keeping still keeping the cells alive produce the same very similar shifting calcium dependence as to be as observed in the go to go to Clock is accurate and like in the code go to cookies accurate. Also this actually if you speak is inhibitors we can base return the sensitivity back to normal concentration. I.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Also showing here activation of protein kinase A where we can sensitize the activity quite a lot, but I will not talk more about that because this will be a topic of marshes talk later on so. As you see from this experiment that if you use calcium concentration, which were normally used in flash photolysis, about 10 micromolar or more, you will not distinguish among between these phenotypes. But basically, if you actually use a stimulation which is much more compatible to calcium changes during glucose stimulation, you could actually differentiate different manipulations much better. So in a day.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Listen to this kind of classical view of how we activate to better serve. You always have to count that there's some kind of protein kinase force activity like protein kinase. A particular C can modulate. The the the constant kind of the way how the better cell is activated and this is not a new concept. We have a very similar constant in the regulation of the smooth muscle as well. So basically we can with cyclic AMP levels control the level of contraction and also calcium sensitivity in this House. So.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
To conclude, I would like to show that that you remember that how critical is is the integrity of tissue, and then we'll talk later about the integrity and structure of the tissue into more detail that we need a fresh preparation in compensated issue with that issue which has been exposed to hyperglycemia definitely compensates to this condition that the glucose resistance can be anyway reinterpreted as lower calcium sensitivity, and I think we can actually gets a bit more data from Marsha. Later on, and the protein phosphorylation, the term is the cost independence of Exodus in better sales to reduce an augment the secretory activity. So in a way, basically what the cell that in the body that does not have enough insulin. Has to do to control the basil basil metabolic activity to stay anabolic visit can increase the resistance to glucose by the by the lower calcium sensitivity, risking the problem of getting hypercalcemic just to keep enough insulin in the. For example, in resistant issue to basically stay anabolic because we in wild type environment. Of course we cannot afford to be to be catabolic. So just.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Finish bonding and best in 1922 University of Toronto. When they were talking about the cure for diabetes, they saw it just around the corner many years later. Basically, we didn't find the proper corner yet. I show you this kind of graph before and that basically there is a limit of the insulin concentration which it would define whether we are catabolic or anabolic, and that this can be definitely be changed by the lower insulin sensitivity or by increased body mass, where insulin is just simply not sufficient. And that in this way, both types of diabetes, they just don't differentiate other by just by the lack of the presence of insulin. But also the way that basically at which stage we actually switched to Cataclysm catabolic metabolism, which is not good for your body. Just the lap. I'm very happy today that I have many people from my our group Nick from getting in here today. And of course I would also like to acknowledge some people that from the Kernel Lab Institute of Physiology Maribor.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And of course, the collaborations that we have with different labs in the world. So this meeting actually is part of the partner group to Max Planck Institute of Biophysical Chemistry, together with Professor Engineer who is also here but obviously busy. Thank you very much. Is sensitivity. Makes sense. Claim that. Patience. Show me birthdays. I mean, basically I didn't talk about, sorry I didn't watch it. OK, I didn't talk about this part because in the general general Physiology Paper we showed that in the go to cook is accurate. Basically when we use stronger stimulation, which should be something like potassium chloride, very or Argentine, then we can augment. Basically we can get augmented secretion from that and this is this kind of activity dependent stimulation was also due to the hyper activation of protein kinase. See we did not explore this part into detail, but definitely when you use a very strong stimulation. You can actually have more insulin out. There is a. Exactly. Yeah, but you should ask him. Yeah. I mean we. Yeah, sure, but we have each have haven't explored at the data yet so for sure.
