I'm from the Department of Computer Science at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology in Scopia Macedonia, and I'm here to present the paper entitled Hierarchical annotation of Medical Images. Accent on the feature extraction technique. At the end of the presentation I will give the final remarks, conclusion and future work that can be done. In short, about the predictive clustering trees, a tree is actually viewed viewed as a here here of cluster. In the top node of the tree we have all the data and how we go further in the tree we actually split this clustering sub cluster to produce the tree. So in every node we are actually looking for best acceptable attribute value that can be put in that node. The heuristic of choosing this test is the reduction in the variance in the induced sub subset. The predicted predictive clustering trees framework can handle different types of target concepts if the. This is example that can be labeled with multiple levels that are organized in here. How we instantiate the variance in order to be applicable in the hierarchical multi label classification, we compute a very square distance between each example label and sets mean label. This is this. I'd component proportion of examples of the set belonging to the Class C. I becausw the mistakes that are made in the lower level in the here, here. Ensemble is actually a set of classifier classification of the new example is by combination of the prediction of each classifier from the ensemble. The goal of our program is actually to provide the IRM a code for an image. Petition we actually were who are involved in this competition. The problem was quite difficult cause 82 classes actually have less than 10 elements. Training so this one congruent 29 images actually were in 82 classes. We evaluate, we actually compare the performance of a single tree, an ensemble or the comparison was were made by precision recall curves. And these are the results for the second scenario. The amount of medical image is constantly constantly drawing. But the cost, the cost of manually annotating this huge amount of images is very high, and it is also. Another aspect of automatisation of these processes to use text browsing can search, but to generate automatic process of the image annotation Toby. The increase of the predicted performance with ensembles compared to a single tree is quite evident. These are the values for the parameter, the wise so the performance so excellent becaused. The classifiers for Lexi say this is the anatomical quote, and this is the direction of code you have high. We actually presented the medical image annotation task using hierarchical multi label classification for the feature extraction algorithm. We use local edge histogram descriptor to represent the grayscale radiological. RS4 feature for future work we have. We can try other algorithms for feature extraction like scale invariant, feature transformation, Tamura features for representing texture. ? From this class is actually worth much more. Images so we have to further improve the classification algorithm to be able to learn under this covariance River distribution of the test and train set actually is quite different. The code is strictly strictly here are chical we have examples for the here are key to 12162 means cardiovascular if 2 means cardiovascular system to 1 means cardiovascular system and more specifically hard to 16 min. This is image example with the associate Irma code. What is the idea that these to market points in a digital image at which the brightness intensity changes sharply? This is very efficient technique because we reduce the amount of data to be processed while retaining the important information about the shape of the objects in the image about their position in the image and so on. Teach the length of the vector is 80 actually. Feature in order to obtain a model, that model can predict previously unseen images as a classification method methodology, we use predictive clustering trees and in order to improve the predictive performance we used ensembles methods.