[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so. They are just explain, Hector is my was my PhD student. He just graduated. He John Google research. So he is not here but he is not far away. So in the Bay Area Chalet Lee was my another PhD student. He also graduate. This year he joined Microsoft, actually Adcenter. Remember if you go out to do the registration, those all those people are in the same same group as generally he just joined. OK, so that's the one we should say. This is the tutorial. Part so for this tutorial I'm going to party in this into three major parts and find.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Conclusion just one slide. OK, so the part why is RFID data mining then? Part 2 is trajectory date money. Part three? Is traffic data mining, so we're going to cover all the three major topics.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So the first topic is RFID data money, so I'm going to 1st introduce what is RFID? You know how why we need to do RFID data mining? And then I'm going to discuss the data warehousing for RFID data and data mining for for the data part.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So the first thing I would discuss is RFID technology. I think everybody knows what is RFID RFID? Just a aggravation of radio frequency identification. But you probably see lots of usage of our ID RFID if you carry AUS passport. Suppose you go outside somewhere. If the passwords were the passport was you know delivered to you was made in the last two years you actually carry RFID tag in your passport simply says you can go down to show your password to the to the custom officer. Another way you can go, of course, that's a future case, could be you just walk through OK, the reader will read through your app ID of your password. Of course, in principle they have to show your photo, but they can match your photo. If the data the response data is fast enough, the customer officer can watch your photo and watch you while you work through the customer. You don't have to wait of course nowadays, especially for after September 11, you probably have to wait there. But this is the technology. The interesting thing is. In the past, OK, everybody, when you go through the the you know the pay off at the checkout counter you have some kind of UPC labor. The swipe it through through it beeps then you know it's enter into the system. They check they charge your your money or somehow. But in principle you don't with RFID tag. This is not as simple simple, you know, like just a code like barcode. The RFID tag have the barcode code inside of your RFID tag so with certain distance the reader can read it and then they can register in the system. They can check everything. So in the future if you really all the same Walmart products got RFID, you actually do not have go through counter just to pull through your card. Everything will be charged correctly. So that's the future.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Case. But the RFID has been used in many, many applications. Just give you a simple example. The supply chain management you especially nowadays you get those big ocean liner. They got those RFID on every container that's already there. That RFID is reasonably big. They read through the container. They know how many things are going through so they can do all the inventory rate. Here is also very useful. The access control like to station you probably I don't know. Like in Chicago, if you drive through you have these easy pass or the car I pass or E pass. Once you buy this you don't have to wait to pay your toll. You just drive through. Why? Because you really have RFID tag and that whole collection is done by why are you driving through your RFID tag on your car is just a charged to your account automatically so this is very useful. For access control, the luggage management. Currently most of things that steered attack in the future, also could be done by RFID. The medical wine is very useful. For example, if you want to supervise some error people, they move around. If they fall on the ground or something you want know immediately. Actually, if the patient or the error people have the RF ID tag attached, you actually know the exact situation was happening, so that's very useful even for PET. Or even for some young children they put something on your and or your wrist or something. It's very easy, fine actually. I remember a year ago they got. I think there somebody from California drove occasion and then disappear in the Oregon Forest finery. Demand died, they actually blame say why you do not have an RFID tech tech on every car so it's very easy to locate. So that's very important for our.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So you actually can see this a typical inventory management. You get it. No so tall. You know there are so many things in every chair. OK, it's impossible for other people going through this if you have RFID, why you need it? Just reader just driving through this you actually know all things Watts there. How many?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Very, very useful. The luggage if you get a luggage, get lost you have are fighting. You know exactly what's happening. You can trace back. Actually I allow. A week ago I just came back from Brazil. OK, there was one person who got a sick before the departure. OK, the most important thing is to locate her luggage tag and took the luggage out of the airplane. OK, the Hawaiian surf waste is more than 30 minutes. So everybody got gotta Mystic connection, OK? If there was arcidi, you can. You don't have to even go into the shop, you just scan it.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
You know where it is? That's a toll station.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So the in general is this? OK? There are lots of readers the reader or send signal, OK, their radios signal down to you know those commodities. OK, they have the RFID tag, they were they were reflag they were say I'm here. OK they give the RFID the RFID get into the system you can match. You can do a lot of things. But with this?

[261.0s - 290.0s]
How big the RFID could be the RFID? Because if you are reading so many different things and you put into the system you want to construct a data warehouse, you wanted the data. Mining the data is really really huge. OK, so with this one starting in year 2002 after I came back from ICD conference, that conference, actually, the Article Vice President give a talk. Set up, where do you find petabytes and how they handle with petabytes data and his most convincing argument actually is RFID. He says if you get a Walmart, just say Walmart, that time just claim they want to embrace RFID technology. You said Walmart data, you know if you have every commodity store on the disk, you know with all the traces is very easy. You can go through high order petabytes even now. Many other policy say you can hardly find petabytes. So then Hector, actually after it came back, Hector discuss with me about his PhD thesis. I said, what about if we do this RFID data warehouse and data mining? That could be quite interesting. So that's a CCC got you've probably see, like ICD 2006, he got the best student paper award in this conference on the warehousing and analyzing RFID datasets. There are lots of research papers surrounding on different corners of this of his thesis. So my first hockey centuries, his thesis, you know, abstractions, because the thesis is so long itself will take about 1 1/2 hours to prevent. So our not discuss every corner but our discuss several major things. Why is warehousing how to warehouse RFID? Another is how to use RRD to do flow mining, traffic mining?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Other things on data mining. So the first thing I would discuss is RFID data warehouse.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
OK, so the first thing we should say is the the data generated by RFID system can easily reach petabytes. That's why they call. This data is really enormous. Why they got this? The problem is the reader keeps reading a lot of things and the RFID each tag is not that long, probably 36 bytes or something like this, or 64 bytes. But if you read lots of details and many, many times you get lots of redundancy. We so many items you easily can accumulate into petabytes. But we found actually even you claim. For example, Walmart said that they can generate every day they can unit 7 terabytes RFID data. But there are lots of redundancy and also lots of low level abstractions. So if we want to warehouse. The RFID data. What we want to do is the first thing is we say you can have a very highly compact summary for RFID data. You don't lose anything, but you actually can make the data much smaller. That's the first operation. Another thing is you actually can play with this RFID in a substantial scale. We call app is online analytical processing. That means you can drill down, roll up on this RFID data in a multi dimensional space. In a very efficient way, even you get it petabytes state and you also can preserve a lot of information. For example, you can preserve the path structure of RFID data. Actually the cost is not that high, so that's a whole thing. We think you do. Data mining, do data warehousing with this petabytes data is manageable to some extent, even on your PC, using your PC may only have 200 or 120 megabytes. Gigabytes how can you handle petabytes data after you you listen to my tutorial, you probably find is not that hard.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So let's look at the whole thing. Just thinking a typical example of the whole R RFID lifecycle. OK? The factory were generated lots of commodities and they put Ark ITT Tech on it. Nowadays the RFID tech is still reasonably expensive. For example, the bigger RFID may take about a dollar or $0.50 to get one RFID tag, but the price is dropping dramatically OK. Now I think it's some RFID tech is dropped to almost like $0.10 attack and the size could be very small like. This year early this year, OK, Scientific American has one interesting picture is they use the test tube? OK, then the test tube just to get a half of the test tube is orange juice on the orange juice? If they have some very small thing, they enlarge it. You see those spots. Those spots are RFID tags. Let's Japanese they produce is RFID tag. They say you put the thousands of RFID tags. To this, orange juice is test tube and you drink it. You may not even sense it. OK, so that is so small they actually use the Japanese. The young girls is very thing here. They use the thing here. Enlarge it to get the radius of the of the the diameter of the hair. Then comparing with diameter of the RFID, the RFID actually smaller so you actually can see how small the RFID could be. That's a current. You know 2008 technology that's done by Japanese producers? Then you actually can see the RFID we attach with those commodity. Then they were ship. Through you know different places, two different warehouses, distribution centers. Finally, they go down to the Sheriff, the Sheriff. The people actually get it to their shopping cart and then finally go through the checkout counter. So the interesting thing is, with the current technology, everything here, every piece of data can be recorded. You have lots of disk space. You can record those data. The problem is the data set is so huge, how?

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Can we handle it? So that simply says we have this RFID you can you can translate them finally into this kind of tag. This is we call EPC code the current even you do not have RFID you shop, you get anything they have EPC tag attached to it. Those are just barcodes. But with this EPC they you can register the EPC tag, the location, the time that's like a one record you registered and these Roy events can go up into the whole trajectory like the whole RFID, how they traversed the whole thing. The trajectory can be.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Record it. The problem actually is how can we construct data warehouse to model the whole thing without losing much information? The first thing is what we says is there are three kinds of things in the RF ID password movements one week course, bulky moments, barking moments is many, many things. They move together. The barking moments the typical wine supply chain management. You get a peep. Things shipped on this. They ship the whole thing down to some place. This is barking moment. Scatter moments, scary moments, like the past hallway OK like every car has one E passar body but every car is moving individually so actually Japanese I think a year ago they actually got RFID tag on the conference tag. Then they record all the information and everyone going to which conference, what, how long this day they have the complete information, the whole conference. It's a very big conference with several 1000 people. They use RFID trace every piece of information, how full the capacity you know is how maximum used which. Which tutorial? Which talk attract more people? They get all the information from this RFID. That's a scatter moments. And otherwise no moments. No moments means this OK there are lots of sensors, the sensor. Sometimes the sensor can be put on the trees. OK if you want watch the forest fire or the ecosystem are those things you can put those RFID tags, those sensors on all those different things. They don't move but they keep sending a signal. If you go through drive through this they send you signals to see how good it is. The interesting thing is the normal sensor. They have a battery there. But the battery is very precious. You put on the very top of the tree. The battery runs out. How could you go down there? You know to fetch them to change the battery. That's very tough, but if you have RFID, you drive through. Actually they send signal down there. You will send it say I'm here. So actually it's much much interesting. So this is a no movements part. But what our discussion, many on the barking moment for the data warehouse, but for scanner moment for example, you think about those toll stations. If you think of this through station, the movement of the car, if you think to a little approximation, for example through a two 830, how many cars pass through the station? What's the traffic flow you actually can treat all these as a barking movement. Even every car is different, but you think the flow of the car is like a barking movement of the commodities, so you still can use this barking moment to do most of the analysis actually is interesting this year. Last year I give the talk in Hong Kong. OK in June then they were they say the RFID is very useful because in Hong Kong what they do is they have those they call this cars is they take subway they buy the car, they go to the subway station. They put the dollar in. They get this car and this car they charge some kind of initial one so most people they don't keep switching cars but they can recharge money and with this card you go down not only take subway. But also you go to like a subway related like a coffee shops or parking facilities. You can use the same card to pay for it, so it's become very useful thing. And then the Hong Kong government, their transportation government actually collected all the information about those those cars and people do not feel they violated privacy because when you go down to the station and buy a car, you do not show your ID, you just put a dollar in to get a car out. So there's no privacy involved, but they can study. What is the traffic flow for for the for the like a peak hour in the morning or in the afternoon? How they go? Which station to get on? They wish they didn't get off that you have a complete set of data. They build a very nice data warehouse, studied Hoch Hong Kong traffic pattern for subway in public transportation. So it's very, very useful. So those are the usefulness of these RFID.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Then when we study this RFID data warehousing, the major thing we we can claim the first thing is we call lossless compression of the barking movement. Data simply says we can compress the RFID tag data in a very substantial way without losing any information. That's why we call it lossless compression. Another way. Of course, you can do lossy concrete compression, especially if you thinking about this OK, different people. We have different interests. If you can compress the data for something, you help the other parts are quite a lot thinking about this. Suppose we have Walmart, the Walmart store manager. OK of course you get RFID on all things involved. For example, this particular jug of milk OK came from which farm how they packed together, how they shipped and finally which Sheriff is on and how fast they go from the Sheriff finery to the checkout counter. So you know all the information, but remember for store manager what they are interested in is not how they shipped on up to the store. Unless this milk goes back they wanted to go back to see whether your Chuck shipping had any problems. Then they can go back to the other thing. Otherwise their store manager were only be interested in from the back room up to the shelf. That's apart, they're interesting.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So based on this, I will give you a simple example to see how we can compress the data while we do data warehousing and data mining. Suppose we get a read here like a Walmart gets 3000 stores everyday. Is setting 10,000 items OK? So suppose each item in the whole lifetime of going you only be red 10 times on average. Actually, it's much more. If you really see the real case every hour, so the store manager, the RFID digging take the reader goes through the store once or something. So then you can see that data volume you can generate. Where be 300 million 2 hours per day is really huge. And but the people are actually wanted to overlap on the data. See for example they want to answer a question like this the every time of outerwear items move from the warehouse to the checkout counter in March 2006. How fast it could be. But you can see there's so many of our items. There are lots and lots of data in RFID. You want to answer this query almost response immediately, it seems.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Not easy. OK? So then we discuss this warehouse.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
OK, the first thing is you look at the data the data. Actually, if you look at this EPC location in time, that's the raw data you get. Actually, this raw data. In many cases they the command is sitting there maybe read many times before they even move so you can see there same same RFID ry same location but it will be read on T1T2 after the 10. OK very simple compression. Could be you just say instead of giving me 10 records you give me only one record. Say what's the first time you read what's the last time you read? Let me just in time an all time what I need just this in the middle everything can be gone because you assume most common is they sit there. You read many times even today is raining is wet sometimes you miss catch some signal once or twice the commodity that we're not jump out and coming back. So then you know you use this record you can compress it but that's a very simple compare.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
But the major compression is when you do the data warehouse, you can think about this. OK, you can think the data warehouse essentially constructed by integrated data into some you know data cube and.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
You can do all that. But the problem is, if you say I use the same way as the normal data cube, I have this warehouse farm, they may have a data cube. The truck shipping may have a cube. The Sheriff may have a good day to cube. The problem is, some important information could be missing. For example, if the milk goes back. If the milk goes bad, you want to check you know back to the truck or to the farm. The problem is, once you already compressed the RFID, if it's gone if this. Gallon of milk goes back. You cannot blame all the milk, you just is this one because it usually you will not everything goes bad. You know this Jack of milk goes back if you summarize to the high level you'll miss all the traces. You would not be able to find out what's the problem. So.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So what we really want is we want to construct the data cube we want to compress them, but on the other hand, is a lossless compression. That means if we want trace back. Which milk? What conditioning goes better? Why the weather is a shipping problem in storage problem to distribution center problem or farm problem? You actually will try to use this law system. Compression of course, sometimes you want use lossy compression. For example, why you do the reading or some rolling. You may say the lossy compression is OK. I'm not exactly examining every jug of milk. I'm exactly in the hole.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
You know the whole flow, so if we look at this, the first thing I'm going to discuss is the lossy compression. That means, how can I compress data in this substantial way you can think about this. OK, the factory. Produce a lot of things they distribute, usually in the bulky way too. Different distribution center. OK, this distribution center will refer further distributions to the store and further distributed to the Sheriff every this kind of distribution is power key distribution. That means you are not distributed. Why you're this with many things, the whole truck you may go down there. So with this, what about instead of thinking their 1000 IDs if they ship at the same time where we barley think they're just?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
One ID OK in that idea we actually say instead of thinking there are so many things we have the register we are thinking we invent one week or generalized ID. That means this ID actually compact. Lots of art ideas inside because they move together. So we get event. Had generalized ID, then original. You may have 10 sound and record if they move together you just need one. OK, that's why this generalized ID. Becomes COO

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Useful. Then you also have the thinking this way. Actress things are not moving in one way. This keeps splitting actually in many cases they keep merging and split in many different ways. You think about this. OK, suppose inner ear case. You think about this one supposed is a producer somewhere. Suppose in China. OK, this one is suppose it's big port like in Shanghai. OK so there are many many things produced here. Different factories produce different things. They ship down to this bigger ports. The bigger post Fineries ship to the biggest Seaport. You get lots of different things packed into this ocean liner. This ocean liner ship down to here supposes Los Angeles here. This is the last chance. Then they keeps distributing to different stores. OK you have merge and then split. You may merge and split in many ways. So for the RFID, how could you compress what our claim is? For example, this ocean liner you ship millions, or you can even say I ship hundreds of thousands of tons of item from here down here. How many ideas I need? Actually, what we tell you is what you only need is one. You just need one ID code to Register here shipping this ocean liner from Shanghai to Los Angeles. You don't need that many things and we also tell you you don't lose any information.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
OK. So another thing, of course is you can have this generalization this generalization week, or is lossy compression. That means you have a particular shirts. You can say these are shirts. OK, this service could be for children, for woman, for a man to finalize your shirt. Now surely just go through our where our just go to closing. If you do this you still can do a lot of reasoning, but this kind of thing. You do this reasoning at the interesting level we do reasoning it is. Lossy compression basically once you see this out where you do not know whether it's.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Jacket is short. And another way to do lossy compression actually is compressed in the. Along the past. You think about this. OK, if people suppose the manager will be only interested in this part. OK, in the storm entering only interest in this part, you can compress all the transportation no matter from which distribution center to which truck and finally get into a store. That part can be compressed, but for transportation they can compress this part. They can only. Watching this part, so of course this is lossy compression. If you want to trace particular Jag off milk, how they go wrong? OK, so then you have to. Decompress it.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So our model is this OK you get into the other parts is similar to your typical data warehouse. You have those different products, different information, different manufacturer or these is very similar to the typical data warehouse. But the interesting thing you can see is many things can be compressed as long as they stay or move together if they stay or move together. They can be compressed into 1G ID. The only thing is your Gidi may have hierarchies. What you store is your whole movement or state is 1 record if they share the same location in story one record. For example, you thinking those ocean liner. This ocean liner may store millions of things but finally use 1G ID because they move exactly the same way. Then here you have hierarchy of your GI dies OK with this hierarchy of gidu do not lose any piece of information because this one Gidi made reference many, many subject these subjects finally getting into the RFID. So with this structure you actually can do most of the data warehousing using much more compressed data but you do not.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
This information so you can see what you need for the for your schema or data warehouse design. The only thing is you can see this is a very new part because you have a gidi structures, otherwise all the others. You will think it's more or less like you know, not too much data. You still can play.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
But how do you get this Gidi? OK, our algorithm. Basically you scanned data only once for your whole RFID. You scan data once. You actually can construct all these map paper and Jelly and state table in a very systematic way. How do you do it? You can see this is your EPC code RFID. This is the time in and time out. This is your location or something. This is he, you know information and with this information what you scan. Why you scan this you actually can see if they share the same location same time in time out. This will be compressed into what, so that's the reason you actually can go through the data once you get all that.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
The ID sorted out OK, so that's the part we can say.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Very fast, you can get this one done and with this done use your GI D comparing to EPC. The size is far far smaller. OK so then your data set you try to play will be much smaller.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Thing you can play so the another thing is you can't even name your TID because the ID is under your control. You actually can put a lot of information into that ID. For example, you can. You can put your pass information into ID. Then you don't have to go back to the track your pass. You actually include your pass into your G ID. Then a lot of information you can do reasoning just to grab this ID. You can do a lot of reasoning already, so that's why it's very.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Efficient and is quite powerful. So essentially you can see that the ID is your parent ID plus your unique ID. You use this structure. You can check all the nested structures and check through the pass as well.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
So then there are many other ways to generalize. For example, we can generalize based on the multi level hierarchical structure, and you can generalize within.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Pass. Ann, and that's the table. What you need is just information table which register the gidi with different attributes, like whether this is the shirt, whether this is for for woman wears a size and a witch who is producing it. That information is in your information table, but you have a state table just shooting Gidi and there's how long they stay or how they move. The map table is Nexus structured while you really need just these three major tables. You actually can construct your data warehouse to do data mining in a very systematic way.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
OK, so you actually can see how we can through scan through this whole thing. We can construct this.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
You know by the compression.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So the construction time is single scan the compression. You have lossless compression. We also can have lossy compression.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
OK, then you can construct data cube using this RFID data warehouse. This is a minimum generalized table you need and this is a higher level table and around the way you don't have to construct all the all the Q boys. You can consider most frequently used cuboids. The other cube as can be.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Easily derived from this annual.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Can't do the query processing.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Can do data mining as well we.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Data some study on this and how to. For example, you actually can see how we merge things, how we split things, that one you use different nodes along different things.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Merge and split. Now I'm dead.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Passing the data mining part OK. The data mining for RFID essentially is. You can do a lot of things using this structure. One is data cleaning, another is dataflow analysis. The surveys you can use path based classification clustering. You can do frequent patterns, sequential pattern you can do are liars and you can link this with.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Other things so you can do a lot of things with this RFID data. Of course with limited time, Hector cannot study every corner of this. He constructed the data warehouse instead, pick a few things and study. There are lots of things and leave for other people. Yes.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Yes. So things like one month or year ago are not there. Right? That's a good question, actually. In most cases you first want to do the lossless compression. And the data already compressed quite a lot. You based on our performance you can see because you use Gidu uses this thing. You can compress a lot. Then now I in principle still could be rather large. OK then it will depends on your application. Like we said, if you're a store manager, you don't care the shipping unless you really want to do individual investigation. That time, that part can be compressed substantially and with the general people doing accounting or something, they probably don't care. Individual items that you can. You can go up to a certain level, for example, like you say the months. If you're saying I don't care a year ago what's exactly moment? Who will pick up this one? So you'll probably say I can go up a certain level. OK, then I can even forget the mini lever. Our level day level, my minimum generalizations month level that's possible. OK, you study ten years ago. You check it every month instead of every day or every night. So that's quite realistic. So that means your data warehouse can be compressed using lossy compression, as long as you are satisfied with that level. So you can use lossy compression, generate many many smaller data warehouse. Then you can play with this unless you are not satisfied, you really want no detail, you go back to deeper and deeper level. For example, you'll find something goes wrong. You want to say FBI come to investigate this. Then they may look at each part, though it takes some time. But if you say I just want to get general statistics then very high level data cube should should be OK. So this. Application dependent so that the this one just give you the framework and say it can be done. Then for data mining.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
First thing interesting thing is data cleaning for data cleaning what you can see is this. The first thing is we said if you can. If this warehouse can substantially compress RFID data, so the whole thing can be done. But the problem actually in many cases the data in real offer ID is very dirty. For example, you know the barcode why everybody trust you go through the shopping. They beep, they let you go OK. The problem actually is a beep. You think about this, if you hear a beep, you know you're the milk you bought was registered OK. If you do not hear beep, you know there's something Miss register you. That's why the shop assistant. Where do it? One more time. OK, but in the real life you think of RF ID they do not do it many, many times. Sometimes you misread you, just missed it. But the interesting thing is this. You may have multiple reading misreading errors in reading in the rear RFID data, so in that sense you need to data cleaning. But with the data warehouse this idea, this compression idea actually you can help a lot of data cleaning thing. You think about this? OK, if you get a whole truck you get lots of things inside. The truck goes down there, they ship, you have shipping put into the truck and finally go also shock. You may have the rules as in and out, unless somebody's theory in the middle in and out should be consistent. You can use this as a rule to check it the same thing as our. You can see our initial RFID reading is within time an out time. Remember in the middle you may misread something. You may read many times, or you may. Sometimes the weather is no good. You may miss read it because the electricity you know, the charge you know is a little you know. Damn pee in that sense you can use this data warehouse actually to guard against lots of potential errors. That's why the warehouse mining and warehousing were help data clean. But that doesn't mean you were not need to do data cleaning. Actually, what we we didn't study is data mining itself will help data cleaning because the data mining you find a lot of implicit rules. Those rules will go back and check the data. If the data does not follow the rule, likely the data itself may be misread, or maybe read too many times. So we use this data mining workout the general regularity and go back to do help the data cleaning process.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
So in the real time, in a real Life OK, Hector actually did another one called cost consciousness cleaning of RFID data. The general idea is this OK? The system itself so far, because the reading is going through the Sheriff. The Sheriff could be very high, some very close and very far away. You can go your your reader can drive fast or slow. OK somehow the weather is different. You know all these things. You'll get. This whole system is not so reliable. You can see their interference of the water meter and speed. All these were affect the accuracy you will get. From this error RFID data and thinking there are lots of different readers. There are millions of tags. Sometimes you miss something. So the key idea this you have many different ways to do data cleaning, but the clean this actually the cost is different. Some maybe the cleaning is more powerful but takes longer. Some the cleaning is not so powerful, but it's quick, it's cost less. So the general idea is use data mining. You actually calculate the cost. Ask me the cost you can at a certain level, you can use first user, low-cost. Why you you get a rough thing then things you want to go deeper. You can use more expensive cleaning method.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
That one I will not go quite deep. Even the slides. It has some more slides.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
So the time another interesting thing is dataflow analysis, because you look at the whole off ID, you know the whole thing, how they flow. The interesting thing is you want to workout the rules how they really flow along this road or along the whole supply chain. So we have wrought topples. We have just a view like this. We actually can do a lot of things to construct week or past database. That means you want to register. What are the no? This is different dimensions like a product manufacturer, price and color. You have so many different tags. This tag actually can form a flow graph. So what we do is we from the multi dimensional point of view you can come.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
The flow graph. So you can think. For example, if you want to find why this. Jag of miracles wrong so you what you really see is you actually can have the whole flow graph. Finally go through the shelf. So what you really see is what's the probability you can construct it. You know the whole probability distribution.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Flow graph OK. The flow graph where we did is using the previous data warehouse OK. Based on this data warehouse, you actually can go back and try to construct the whole whole flow.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
And this whole flow graph we're we're. Register the general distribution is like a frequent patterns and the outliers simply says you try to find a. Where are the major free train of the of the flow. The frequent patterns and what deviate from the major parts of the frequent pattern. So you think these should be qualified as outlier so you can actually workout the whole transition path based on the major flow information and then workout the all our information. So that's why we call the flow.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Passively, can we have a flow graph construct the flow cube? Then you basically the flow cube. General idea is you can think the whole thing is according to to those things like you can think that there are several dimensions like product category, the country, the price or these dimension. With this dimension you see housings of law. Where are the major trend? Where is the outliers and you can drill down. You can roll up, you know. Try to watch out what is a major thing on this. For example, just thinking about product category. Suppose you want to see the digital camera the deer camera have so many different brands or producers so they form different dimensions and this dimension you see the whole thing. How they flow for each scene. For example Canon say superpower shot or something. You see this brand how they flow along the whole thing and where is a major trend was out loud. You can do it.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Roll up in a very nice way.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
OK or not, give you the very detailed one, but you can see using this flow cube you actually can find a lot of regularity and irregularity in your whole RFID.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Data.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
Addition and all of those things. Of course, when you construct this, remember this flow graph you constructed is always, you know, it's a lossy compression because of what you got is frequent pattern an outlier? You will miss something. So what we did is using something we call iceberg. Cube means you find a major trend is above these iceberg. You can see the rear iceberg. The underneath part is not so important in basically hide it because otherwise we would try to get all the details. You get too much details. OK, so that's a.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
The general idea how to construct the flow graph.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
OK, and of course there are lots of discussions. For example you can encode alot of things like jacket you have product closing our jacket, the whole hierarchy. You can encode into your stuff while you study this flow graph. You actually can have the other encoding information transferred to your system. OK so when you study the flow you maximally get it. You're the details of your product.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
The detailed hour is in the paper or not, to give you the very.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
Eat here, but what you can see is you. You can develop very efficient algorithm to workout this flow. Q That means you basically scan data once. You can construct the cube and with this cube you actually can find a frequent patterns, frequent pass and with the frequent pass you can go through one more time. You can find lots of dollars.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
OK, so an with this you also can do a lot of data mining, but this data mining I should say more or less all these parts are the future work because he is my only one PhD and he worked on this. He workout lots of papers but these things we know it can be done but it's not really being serious studied. For example how based on the path you can do classic?

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
Asian the clustering OK, just to give you, these are the general ideas is you give the class label for example the broken goods versus high quality goods. You'll see the whole thing how the whole thing RFID is flowing you based on this pass you may construct the prediction model whether it's related to pass or is related to the manufacturer or related somebody in the handling. Things like a share of you know people broken on the share. So you based on this. You look at the broken goods and the quality goods. You based on their class of Labor. You work back to the past. The RFID pass based on this pass, you actually can identify them. So this is basically is you can do classification. Try to identify whether the RFID will play the roaring or broken things, or is some other things. The similar thing you can do clustering. And.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
Another thing is you can do frequ.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
Patterns, sequential pattern analysis. The frequent patterns, sequential pattern alloces basically says. You can attach the based on the movement segments and pass. You can workout what is frequent pattern, what is sequential pattern. There are many algorithms need to be revised. You think about this. OK the previous like every algorithm or sequential pattern algorithm is not really pass related. OK now you really get this passing information with so much RFID information attached to it. You actually can workout many many details that part. So that's why. We see the path based frequent patterns. Sequential pattern analysis was not quite studied and, uh.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
Very interesting things all are. They all are a lot of things, P.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
We want to find it all hours with RFID data. You actually can do the already taking in many different ways. For example, the data flow. You can detect that something was not allowing the major flow so that one you can at certain degree. You can classify them as an outlier. For for classification you can treat all Arana normal data as two different class labels. Then you can kick in your classification algorithm finding at what condition you can get out loud. The cluster and analysis you can think you can identify those. Different or deviated substantially from the major clusters. You can think these other the outliers along this cluster and you for train analysis. You actually can find what's the major trend you you based on these RFID and then you can detect you know the deviate substantially from their chain and the other thing you know from frequent pattern sequential pattern. You can also identify.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
How many patents? OK, so this is century is you.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
Can do a lot of interesting data mining with the RFID data. Actually this I should say majority part it was not done yet because the student already graduated. I cannot hook him for him for too long. But another interesting thing is you can hook this RFID with the data streams, because remember the data in the RFID data you got it. Essentially it's like data stream because they keep coming in OK, so it's a incrementally updating this data sets. So you really need to kicking allowed the data stream mining algorithm to do the real time incremental data stream mining. Another interesting thing is many things are linked. You can sync the whole thing as an information network. OK then with this RFID flowing in, how this information network may be changed? How to find the deviation of evolution of the whole information network? So that's another very interesting research topic. So simply says with this study we found more problems than we solved. OK, we we solve this, you know, like a flow graph or compression problem. We can make it very compact and then we can facilitate a lot of studies. But we for data mining, we only pick one or two topics. We studied the majority datamining topic actually is not study yet. So simply says is.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
Very good research topic you can get in.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
So finally I can conclude is we for RFID data? We build up a new RFID data warehouse model. This model is based on substantial compression of the data either using lossless compression or using lossy compression. Depends on your application. But with this compression, the huge petabytes RFID data can be substantially reduced into. Something can be handled even on your laptop. So that's that's a very amazing thing. We gotta pretty excited with this. Actually, the people who first work with us was another professor. If you look at the author list for this award paper, the first author, last author or clavian, he actually is a professor in industrial engineering at UIUC. And he actually was a consultant for Walmart. For you know USPS lots of different companies and he gave us a problem. He basically these are the problem. They had two barkey. But then we got this. We feedback to them to him. He actually feedback to this Walmart different things. They actually think this is very good model because of the data becomes manageable. Originally they were blaming articles. Say you just cannot handle petabytes data. Then with this compression they say the current Oracle system can comfortably play with this data because why you have to get it so much redundant? You can compress it. Then you can analyze it. The current are our core system actually can handle it quite well. So then you can do mining of RFID, so that's the part we also did some study on the flow graph analysis data cleaning, but they are low.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
So open research problems, I think anybody here you want to pick up you can workout lots of research papers for this RFID data.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
OK. So then the second part, OK, I.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
The using two or three minutes overlaying servicing partner. We can break. The second part is trajectory data mining that's different from the RFID. Is RFID. What you study is really virtual trajectory. OK, you say the you go from the from the product from the factory to the you know ocean liner then to distribution center. Those are the virtual trajectory. But here we study is.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
Physical trajectory what I can show you this? This hurricane passes definitely physical trajectory. You look at the Vassar they go through this you know like you probably know the actually this summer I want to. Alaska videos of our deeds. That's a place we gotta in US history get largest oil spill. OK, so they actually study the trajectory. How the accident happened. They look at the how the ship was passing because the ocean liner to turn around it will take about 15 minutes to really turn because it's so huge an if the people was not experienced. Actually that people that the driver was drunk so he's turning was somewhat delayed. This is too late. It will hit the. Hit the rock already. The recording. You can see this is this is the even the turtle. You know the moving things are animal moving. All these are the real trajectory data. So the interesting thing is with huge humongous collection of the trajectory data. How can we workout data mining method to do the trajectory clustering, classification, outlier detection? And you know there are lots of things. That's the second part I'm going to study. To discuss the real physical trajectory, how can we handle it? The interesting thing is we currently work with the New York State Museum. What they do is they construct one the car move back. We get all the animals, birds, all the movements from North America to South America down to Europe. They collect a huge huge moving. That's the first movement. For example, they collect their data from Newfoundland in Canada. The birds were fly down to Argentina in the South, part of South America, and the whole trajectory. We want to study to do warehousing to data mining. So this is very interesting thing to study. I think after the break and then we can go back and come back to study this part. OK, so based on the time I will say we get a 30 minutes break. This is 1010 thirty will resume. Thank you.
