Notes so global media monitoring. Again, most of the publishers use this, but not everybody, so you need to be a little bit innovative, but mostly you can find this. From this link you get to the list of articles which are currently there and well. So as I said before, 60,000 mainstream publishers. So roughly 350 K articles per day. We have Python script which well, this is the this Python loop. Extractions, one would be more like a lexical level. So this would include typically part of speech tagging where we assign word types to the words deep parsing, reconstruct the Part 3 from each sentence. Triples would be input for a couple of other notations down there named entity extraction is very popular ones and then semantic level. So we would want to merge all these named entities into one. So this is this immigration I won't talk too much about this. Sort of, we can deal with this problem, but nobody is really perfect here. Topic classification we assign categories to documents. And it exports data in XML or RDF. Connect information uh, across the documents, leaving are being written in different languages, so this is that's why it's cross cross England. Technically, we can do this with machine translation, so let's say we. And so all the documents in different languages. So this is the list of top 100 Wikipedia as you see, the top one is English with 4.5 million documents, Swedish, Dutch and so on. So from this information travel or text mining, you know that one of the very basic operations is causing similarity between two documents. So now what we developed here? Anyway, here we have million categories. So where is the content being published from? How to connect languages between each other? So what is an event? North, what about what is an event? Events usually would be even. Description of event. So this is this unsupervised way. One very practical one would be feature vector events representation, so this would be very classical text mining or information travel type of representation of event, second level structured event. Comments on this feature vector based representation? How can we along which dimensions which we can represent an event, so one very important one is topical. So what is being talked about? The third one temporal, in which time period it happens? So what I have two slides on this. So here we search for Chicago related events. There's no proper event taxonomy out there by everything. So the point here is that once we have events, we would like to connect them into a bigger storylines, and the storylines can be more like linear or also hierarchical. So let's say war in Ukraine is 1 big thing, which consists from many smaller events and we would want to do both so the linear events and also hierarchical. So let's say event would be Microsoft Windows 9. This is news, diversity and news bias and event registry, so this is the last system which use already before then. So what's our overall goal? So first to collect data from global media in real time, so this is certainly one. Because events evolve into bigger topics and so on. So Wikipedia would be good example DB, pedia, Freebase and so on. SoC issues labor would have for this particular query, whatever it was has almost 2% of events. But here we have have all the related events on a timeline, so we see how the story involves. Plus we have export to BBC storyline ontology. One is this understanding global social dynamics, so this is very academic question. So in the same way as we have this life publishing of articles, television is also live channel but slightly different data modalities. Could happen becausw. Let's say thousands of documents. Up where to get references to news publishers.