My name is June and the the paper title I'm going to present is the learning to combine this classifier. Principles one is the combination rule that always waiting over individual classifier. So we have some choice at the freedom of choice based upon the previous this framework. And it is a actually popular for the many different application domain. So here I'm going to use the logical relation for the Aditya response modeling because the reason is that which actually loads the relation of maximum likelihood estimator parameter formula stimulation actually allow us to efficiently compute the variance which is approximation. But if before, before we talk about variance of the response, we need to actually look at how we're going to derive the variance of the parameter first. So as you can see from this slide, as we have the larger number of the data, actually the mean of the difference between the optimal parameter and the estimate maximum likelihood parameter is going to be 0, and then we're going to have this the. And they wanting nice thing about this variance of the responses that it also proven to be useful in quantifying the benefits of this, letting you sample to label in active learning in the 2007 and 1992. So first round of experience I used the UCI data set I did 10 times of iteration, and each iteration and a three fold cross validation. Search search query search engine need to actually decide whether the search engine results search engine results page includes a specific model such as the news product or image. So if I summarize in one sentence, given the testing instance we want to label it as a one of the predefined categories. So that we can actually increase the users the experience. And the other example is, does this patient require specific test? So whole bunch of the query level, feature length, coding length, number of tokens and clear information. And using this training data, we are going to fit a model parameter which is typically not as a data. And to improve the effectiveness of this classifier, actually many technologies have been discussed to going from generative versus discriminative approach. So, example learning and theoretically empirically proven to be effective in many different application and data domain. So the challenges two major challenges associated with an example learning is the how to combine responses and how to generate the weight. The weight can be actually based on error made on training samples so that basically we can optimize sort of the optimize optimize certain objective function during the training and then use this fixed weight during the testing so it is statically divided during the testing and the other example is based on confidence made on testing example so they can actually formulate the certainty. So we can use actually wait to the training sample based on previous decision function. Accordingly we can consider correlations among responses. Actually that involves a variance term defined as ambiguity. So one of the input here, the weight of each network, is it to learn between the training and test during the testing the weight it's actually fixed. Actually, this work is prevented quite similar to the current work, but the this work is each individual classifier is from the Bayesian network, while our work is based on discrete approach. They also use the variance, which is quite a similar, but the similar to our work. And then we view a response. As an estimate of Lambda with a random error which is absolute I so that each response is going to be represented as a sum of this correct answer plus random noise which is actually similar to the same as the linear regression formulation.