I come from Czech Republic Rock, Czech Technical University in Prague. Distance so you partition features things in themselves, but this thing is features that are in the same cells. Davis also disadvantages and are known as quantization effects, so if you're very features here, then the closest feature is just has just infinite distance so you don't ever hang it also. It can happen, and it typically happens in the most distant feature can actually begin this identical. How retrieval of the geometric constraint can help either user or secure? You have better signal reconstruction and in the end. So I will speak about commit retrieval and switches specific object which is wrong. Turns out that it provides not so good conversation because if you if you split your day, dances are high up in the hierarchy then you will never recover from that, and often it happens with this balance so that there are way more. We will represent the images as sets of visual words and as a local establishing is defined by a set of hash functions and probability distribution. Your guys have similarities zero and typically we are somewhere in between, so this similar this notion of similarity. And this method has been originally used for near duplicate images, which is also you can see that you are almost certain to getting a look at images immediately with very high probability. This computer doesn't have to be just the set overlap. You can take one image in your database in turn and try to play with it. And then you just keep the graph there. Then you better run times then into a bag of words representation. This is a overall network, so some people use feature points, key points, anchor points, distinguished regions. If you have large and large number of parameters and one of the biggest problems in this matter is that you have to be really careful with the parametrization because we are measuring the similarity of the models in the parameter space and it might be quite difficult. So for example, in the example of trying things and we have maybe or something two points and have half the data on the line and half later off the line. The input is a set of data points which can be, for example, of matches in the two images.