Will start today with lecture one on regular programs. Focus on what is happening, what I wanted to do is to cover the whole range from the theoretical beginnings of dynamic logic to its application in program verification, and I'll in fact show you a demo of our system that verifies Chavakkad programs and is based on dynamic logic, so that covers lecture 12, lecture 6, and all that's needed along this way. Dynamic dynamic logic justice to summarize. Allows to reason about about properties of actions, not only simple actions. We already had composite actions, arbitrary iterations of pairs of actions. Atomic formula, same thing as in predicate logic. Here are and. Propositional operators and quantification. Sequential composition, or this logic is also general enough to treat non deterministic programs. We can concentrate here exclusively on this selection of programs for our dynamic logic and this set of programs are called regular programs. Then we need to give the set of states. We need to say. Choice anymore once we have fixed the domain of computation, the crypto structure K for M is. All other clauses in the definition. So the set of state. State is the set of all functions from the variables to the values and the values are elements of our domain of computation of EM. That's as usual not. I've only given examples of programs. Who is familiar with the whole calculus? Theories of program verification. Then sending any state that's reachable by program. This is partial correctness, because this model operator box operator doesn't say there exists a terminal is terminating state. Diamond P and then just the constant rule. There is a terminating state. This formula is always true. She is true for all S, then F is true for all S. Which one is stronger? Here we have another valid formula that. Come to the interpreted case. Division into local implication and global implication. For in program verification, that's. Or we have already seen that we can express the notion of a transitive closure using programs using a dynamic logic. In any structure, this formula defines the transitive closure that that is already more general statement. When formula X = y is true, instead F that means as its self is a function, so it has a value for X. This course by giving a motivating example that should give you a feeling what dynamic logic is, what it can be used for, where it fits in all this. Well, I I chose is this tower of Hanoi game. No one instruction, and if you move the smallest disk then you move it to the pile where we had where it has not come from. Also simple. And if you move not the smallest disk, then there's only one possible move. You have two piles, and you can only move the smaller on the bigger one. Invent names for moves the smallest, move the other, and then you will see sequential operator. Well, this theory is not good enough cause when do we stop? Floor level ground level up to higher positions on the stack and we write 0 if there is no no disk and we give the number of the disk that should be. That's the table, so to speak. That describes the situation that is the final position we trust says that all discounts tax free. Or a what we want to say that you want to formulate an invariant. And we could write it like this. It's just the 1st order formula so far seen nothing special to dynamic logic so far. And that we formulate in natural language, whenever a formula, Phi that's supposed to be our invariant is true before we start. Sometimes something is true. For example, invariant properties of action describing what holds true after an action.