And he's going to talk about learning feature hierarchies by learning deep generative models. Well, suppose I give you unlabeled data, so I give you 12,000 face page batches of the same people in the training data. So all I've done is just edit more unlabeled data, that's all. Now, if you build the Gaussian process in this space exactly the same Gaussian process, you can get looking squared error about 11 degrees from 16 degrees to 11 degrees. And again I want to emphasize here that the entire model was built in completely unsupervised way. OK, and so this is sort of the kind of structure that it extracts as opposed to SVD type of model. One other interesting thing you can do with these types of models is nonlinear neighborhood component analysis. OK, that's sort of the objective function that you optimizing, But again, here I want to stress out that you're doing unsupervised learning to learn. You can think of them as Markov random fields with hidden variables. Here are the model samples. Of course, learning deep generative models in general is a big subject in itself. And finally, you can do fun things like image completion. Suppose I have a set of IID training samples XLY some L. Is there? And. But if you have a large supply of unlabeled data, well, what you have to do, no matter what you do, you have to make some kind of assumptions about unlabeled data. So the key point of deep generative models, so at least how they're being used in this communities, is following. You're going to learn probabilistic model. Start that you get by learning probabilistic model and you're going to initialize the discriminative model such as a neural network. That you might trying to solve. Building block of deep belief networks are these little modules called restricted Boltzmann machines? The idea here is that these deep models can actually be used to learn kernel functions. We're going to learn a deep generative model that models the input data in entirely unsupervised way. So let me give one specific example an example of learning covariance function for Gaussian process. Suppose you're trying to predict an orientation of a face. OK, so the labeled training data you have 1000 labeled training examples and you're trying to predict the orientation at the test time you have 1000 labeled test batches of new people, so these actually new faces an you again trying to predict the orientation of the face.