Good afternoon, my name is Maribel Acosta. This is a joint work of foreign institutions an it's titled Crowdsourcing Link data quality assessment. So indeed we can apply some automatic mechanisms to detect and correct quality issues, but however there are others quality issues that require further interpretation and this can be easily performed by humans. Sorry, the value is 3 so we can understand that this is not a valid date and therefore this deep dribble is incorrect. So in our proposed solution, we propose to include human verification in the process of filling data quality assessment. Also, two authors of this paper created a gold standard. We sat down and we assessed all the triples generated in the contest. So in our overall results, we had that 50 different link data experts participated in the contest in our micro test experiment, 80 different workers. The total time for the contest was three weeks. This was a pretty fine time and then Microtask took four days to complete. The experts evaluated, at total of around 1500 triples and their microtask workers only 1030 three 73 triples. So in the precision we had in the incorrect object task, we found out that the M Turkers can actually reduce the error rate of the link data experts. This suggests that we should take a look at the DB pedia. Also 52 DP that triples had the radius values that they were dragged from the regional source like they want. While the Mechanical Turk would successfully reach a position of 94%, we analyzed the 189 misclassifications of the experts and we found out that out of this 189 triples, 50% of them were free. Based links. Also, 39% wear Wikipedia images or uploads and finally 11% external links. Both forms of crowd sources can be applied to detect certain data quality issues. Regarding the type of crowds for each type of quality, issue the effort of the experts should always be focused on domain specific task while the entire crowd performs really well when you present data comparisons. The first one is, is it possible to detect quality quality issues in datasets via crowdsourcing mechanisms? Presented a crowd sourcing methodology for Lynn Data quality assessment. We implemented a very well known crowdsourcing pattern defined stage. Enter workers. As future work we plan to conducting experiments with other quality issues and of course other datasets with different domains an integrate the crowd into the creation process so it could be part of a automatic workflow with some automatic tools. On the other hand, we also have several approaches, mechanisms to describe the quality assessment in the web of data. Our work is situated in the intersections of these two fields. In latter case, the experts or the crowd has to answer whether the triple is incorrect. They have to choose the type of quality issue, so the steps to implement our methodology. And we think that this can be crowd source. In the second type of quality issue we have when the data types, types or language tags are incorrect. And the third type of quality issues is when the incorrect link to external web pages or do a pictures or external sources from not link data unnecessarily. Then we have to select the appropriate crowdsourcing approaches. In we implemented there find stage and verify stage in the final stage or we contacted Lynn data experts and they participated in a contest. We also implemented a very simple wrapper in order to extract the information from Wikipedia infoboxes in order to provide some extra context so the crowd could compare the values from the regional source and DB pedia.