That is, if you're already somewhat familiar with neural Nets, we take input vector X and people are nuts. So do forward propagation talk about the different types of units, activation functions that people tend to use have a little bit of discussion as to what is the capacity of neural Nets and why they're interesting in terms of their ability to model various complicated functions. Advances that have surfaced in the literature that were sort of inspired by this ambition of trying to learn deeper neural networks. The rectified linear activation function. It is bounded below by zero, but it is not upper bounded. OK, So what is the capital capacity of a single neuron? More commonly we would be interested in classifying into multiple class. So performing multiclass classification. So one way to get these probabilities is essentially have an output layer that is always positive and whose activations sum to one and there's a very simple way of achieving this with the what is known as the softmax activation function. All that it does is that it takes the pre activation vector at my output layer. So because of this I can interpret the output as a multinomial distribution over my input X belonging to one out of the C different classes. We have lunch and then after that we talk about the complete learning algorithm for fitting a neural net on data and then talk about the deep learning part. Out of curiosity, who has seen you know, forward propagation and back propagation before you raise your hand. That's an example where you use an algorithm like reinforce so, but typically like it's a pretty good thing to have a activation function for which you can compute. So in this case that's why it's not the problem. The fact that when you start computing gradients with respect to the activation, when you use the exponential and we use the loss, which is the log likelihood as we'll see in a few, you get fairly simple forms of gradients. It's useful, or there's a particular reason like mix really sigmoids and Tange? So for the for the for the video, oreg Aaron gave an answer. You can actually formalize and use that intuition to actually show, and this was shown by Hornick in 1991 that a single hidden layer neural net with linear output unit can approximate any continuous function arbitrarily well as long as you give it enough hidden units. This was all actually applies for Simone and tension. So what we'll do is use the paradigm of empirical risk minimization with some regularization, so empirical risk minimization. For instance, I'm assigning to higher probability on the wrong class an. If you want to be precise about things. And the way to regularizer the gradient on all of that distance to some of the gradients. OK, so that's effectively stochastic gradient descent. And we usually probably inaccurately usually refer to that as stochastic gradient descent. So what I need to do here in the context of my neural net is to specify what is the loss function pacifi a procedure that is as efficient as possible for computing the gradient of the loss with respect to the parameters, and I need to specify a regularizer and. Input azarius unit in my output layer F of X. I mentioned the use of possibly the linear activation function, so essentially no non linearity. It's pre activation. And finally for the rectified linear activation function, super simple gradient. Note that is following in the following graph and the flow graph. So initially you would compute what is the gradient of the loss with respect to the loss itself? There's torch autograph that works like this tensor flow works like this, and thankfully this week you'll get to see how they each different all the implement these notions of automatic differentiation. Thanks to this is, I think, partly why you have all of these different presentations this week is that there's no one single package for every situation, at least as we speak right now. What are the choices one would be to essentially have no activation function, so I have a linear neuron. This just means that the activation function on my pro activation is just the pre activation itself, but that's not very interesting. You have you seen that in doing a stock order this morning so the sigmoid function has the property that essentially squashes the pre activation between zero and one. You can see this squash between zero and one, it's always positive it is bounded and is strictly increasing. Another popular choice is the 10 shore hyperbolic tangent function in this case. So that can be a more convenient form.