It's about a method for modeling complex systems, and especially the digital territory, complex system, digital territory. Is a new artificial in quotes concept that seems to have attracted much attention attention lately. It is somewhere in the middle above artificial life where you have a number of very small, not powerful enough entities that interact in a very naive way with each other. It refers to a graph where you have defined properties using the 1st order language of graphs and says the following. The extensor statement is when I have a set of 1st plasty verticies. I can find connection with. So actually it separates the two sets of vertices into SMT. Where another vertex is adjacent to all of the 1st and none of the latter. If the extension statement is proven to hold in a random graph model, yet you have defined to describe a complex system, then you can say that all properties, all properties that talk about your system, your complex system either hurting the limit with probability one that is there certain port or they do not hold in the limit of probability one. We are interested in describing these kind of interactions between these agents using some formalism. Then OK, allow random graph models that appear to treat different areas of the graph in a different way. So what can you do last with properties that actually cannot be written in the 1st order language of graphs? When this is the technological aspect of the digital territory which realized which makes a realisable such a concept today sure talking about all this kind of networks 4G3G we're talking about mobile devices about. Choose two possible interactions between these verticies. And not only simple graphs where I have interactions between pairs of nodes alone. The GNP model actually assumes that each of the possible emptiers two interactions appears independently of the others with probability PP may be a function of M, and it actually is a function of him. We have the fixed radius model which appears to be more suitable for devices that move about and have a certain interaction radius around them, and this is of course the capability of transmission and receiving. So actually I have a number of random points that appear in a certain area and two points make a connection only if they are close enough to each other, which is model by the parameter D. Sorry R0. D is the dimension of the space. Actually D is equal to two or three. Which actually establishes the connection using some scale free selection of the degrees of the nodes. And this is the famous SD property which I'm going to describe later. So actually you use this model to define the redirection between two nodes. Their degree, I mean the number of neighbors that the node needs to connect to. So after the modes choose their degrees, the random graph which corresponds to the chosen exists is constructed, and then this is the interaction graph of the complex system. This vertex has other degree etc becausw this sequence of degrees may not be graphical. This means that there cannot be a graph that realises this selection of degrees. And this is actually that a sufficient condition is for the expectation to have a finite value. The 1st Order Language of graph. An adjacency between verticies. However, only two singletons becausw if I apply existential or universal quantifier to subsets of vertices, then I have higher order vertices.