How close are we really? From a perfect benchmark for semantic flow processing systems, just to give you a little background on that so. Most papers in computer science describe systems we seem to be an engineering discipline where we build a system. Fast flower Delivery is a used. We would call the semantic criterion so they require you to to apply inference and they have a PPI feature coverage and correctness and recently also they marked Ellis bench, which is a synthetic data set for social network analysis and you also have a fixed set of queries and static background knowledge. Compute the number of results produced by different solutions. And our investigation came up with the conclusion that we cause SFP systems are reactive. So answers must really arrive within a given amount of time. That means you can care about response time alot whi because answers received after that response time that you defined. You just simply consider these answers as no longer valid, so these are the KP eyes that we came up with. The second question you could ask, how much does an enhancement and completely re cost? How close are we really from the perfect benchmark? So it's a support of background data is one of the things that really makes a semantic flow processing system and not an information flow processing system. And it's also the query model that matters. And that is just actually the question that you have to ask, and what you can do is you can define a stress test so that as just means you should define a test for joins, an inference in flow and background data. Rd is just fixed and that's it and the Sr bench they link out to the to the linked open data set so they may really make use of. So we want to be able to be reactive. You have data that is that is just flowing by and has to be consumed on this on the fly by. How close are we found the perfect benchmark? And the conclusion is not how close are we from the perfect benchmark? Well, it's I think one of the few papers that did not really implement something, so we not gave any implementation of a concrete benchmark. The second thing is, they're still exist. The research in semantic flow processing really needs to become more empirical, so I think we are. And so on and so forth. All flows flows are simply unbounded sequences of data that varies overtime. The important thing to know about this it's describes the read current state of a dynamic system, so we're not static anymore, and it's the data that really describes the state of the system. We have continuous queries and that are registered over streams or flaws in most of the cases, and they most of the cases observed through Windows. But what about the semantics? To do a short comparison so the semantics where we consider semantics as the missing bit for information flow processing. Also what was always already set is making us a. So in the ideal of all worlds, if we go to semantic flow processing. And the real interesting point here is that well, although the data that you that you that you might consume, maybe relational. So we went from triple stores to a flows of RDF. Usually all the engines out there extend the RDF data model with the notion of audiostream. How can you do the job with the lowest cost of ownership? Has to do it like that, so the solution is to define the benchmark or workload you run it on several different systems in order to compare them.