[0.0s - 29.0s]
Welcome everybody to my talk about not the Even commandments, but it's instead the 7 commandments. I think that was a fault mistake on the printed program. However, I think on the web it's still correct. My name is Thomas Amber. I'm from the University of Zurich and I'm going to present you joint work that I did together with Jacob O'banion, Alessandro Marghera from view. And emmanuelito value from Polytechnical Milan and V. Bernstein, also from the University of Zurich. This research for sponsored by EU. So in the Vista TV project and Autocommit project and by the Office of Naval Research. So let's start right off. Where did this all come from?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So. It was one of these coffee breaks at ice table to see, and I think it was it born when. We assembled together at the table and we're asking, well, we have now at some of these semantic flow processing. Or, as you might call them, stream processing systems. How are how are we really gonna evaluate them? So is there really a good benchmark out there such to contest the performance of these systems and at that time I was about to start to go into that area and build a system online for that Vista TV project and. As Axel just said in the talk before, it's really about the question what do the results that the people there presented just say so? How close are we really? From a perfect benchmark for semantic flow processing systems, just to give you a little background on that so.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
What is flow processing? We started all with persistent data, so in the beginning everybody put the data somewhere in a static database and all this of course was started by the database community and there was a paradigm change in the relational world. Sometime in the 90s, and I think that had a real hype in the early 2000s years. We then switched their two more transition data. So we want to be able to be reactive. You have data that is that is just flowing by and has to be consumed on this on the fly by. Matching queries without by also cites the persistent data when you will do a query to a database is more or less like one time semantics as we have flows of information you're more in so called continuous semantics.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So flow processing systems. All flows flows are simply unbounded sequences of data that varies overtime. You can just imagine this as a. Sequence of these data items and less formally, just to say it, it's just a continuous flow of information. The important thing to know about this it's describes the read current state of a dynamic system, so we're not static anymore, and it's the data that really describes the state of the system.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Others, such as often work well. We have continuous queries and that are registered over streams or flaws in most of the cases, and they most of the cases observed through Windows. Because you want to give some context. For example, if you want to compute aggregates, it's important to really give your data some context. What you do is you register some continuous queries in the engine and. As the data flows by, you match that data via operators and you usually output another stream of information as your results. So.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Great so far and that's one of the questions that David Karger asked this morning. So great. But what about the semantics? So how do we turn this into a semantic flow processing system?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
To do a short comparison so the semantics where we consider semantics as the missing bit for information flow processing. So that is what the database people in my view are lacking. And that's what. Also what was always already set is making us a. Distinct research area in information flow processing. So in the relational world you do have continuous semantics. You have scalable processing. For that you have real time reactive systems, so you get an answer within a reasonable amount of time, which is really usually reactive and what you lack is powerful query languages, so that's what we obviously have and what we also elect is rich ontology languages or schemata or however you like to call it.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So in the ideal of all worlds, if we go to semantic flow processing. We have all of these items just checked so we have continuous semantics, not only one time semantics. So we have standing queries that we match against dynamic data. And the real interesting point here is that well, although the data that you that you that you might consume, maybe relational. Well, it's one of these data integration parts that we're really good at. The real thing that makes it semantic is that you have the rich background knowledge that you can match tool dynamic data.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So how does that work? From a technical point of view. So we went from triple stores to a flows of RDF. Usually all the engines out there extend the RDF data model with the notion of audiostream. Ideastream just adds a time element to triples and this time element is required to be in nondecreasing order. So you can have these tower values. Might actually be equal, so you only have a partial order on this. But you need to define a partial order in order to make meaningful queries. There are approaches to detect out of out of order events, but I'm not going to details here, so these are not important. That is the first thing you have to do. The second thing you have to do is of course you have to extend Sparkle. Because Buckle was built to be query for static data stores and we have a couple of existing languages. And for each of these languages we also have a system that implements these language. That is one of the points that I will come to later. But these are the candidates that are currently out there that do semantic flow processing.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So why is that a problem? So why why I'm standing here? We are thinking about, well, how do we really evaluate these systems? So we very bit unsatisfied with the situation that there is no really a good way how to test these things and we immediately thought of benchmarking. So what is benchmarking? Benchmarking really ask the questions. How can you do the job with the lowest cost of ownership? So that's how benchmarked emerged in the relational world. Well again, they were quicker than us. But you know somebody. Has to do it like that, so the solution is to define the benchmark or workload you run it on several different systems in order to compare them. And the most important thing you define key performance indicators. What do these key and performance indicators do? So what you actually do is you ask questions. So what is the challenge that my system is going to face? And how do I measure these challenges? So what are the important questions that I have to ask the systems? And of course they were all collected in the so called Bible on benchmarking a SQL databases. It's the book by Jim Gray that collected several benchmarking scenarios of the real world. And why benchmarking so benchmarking user is really short to be quite useful. Because as you see the well, if you follow the TPC matrix or the statistics there, the prices for transactions per second greedy have dropped dramatically in the last. 25 years so why benchmarking it makes your products more comperable. It emerged out of industry because you want to compare products you accelerate actually technological process. Why is it interesting for us? You can also use benchmarking of course, as a scientific method if you want to find out more about the things that you're working with and most important for us is we highlight strong and weak points, so that's what industry products usually try to avoid, so at least highlighting their week. Points, and that's what what's usually done by the scientific community. So you really want to know where is the problem. So where when do these systems break?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So why is that an important question so? Most papers in computer science describe systems we seem to be an engineering discipline where we build a system. We show that it works done next system so that it works gone and so on and so forth. There are some nice studies about these about the ACM papers, which the first of which were conducted in the mid 90s. Well, they showed that a significant amount of publications was without any real evaluation. So you can think OK, that might have been shocking news in the mid 90s and people promised to do better. However, some 14 years later they repeated that very study and found out that in the mean time, not really much happened. So we're still building systems show that they work and go on. So only a few papers really, systematically evaluate the systems that we are building.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Why is it important in our community? So in the semantic web semantic flow process in area, we also mostly describe or build actual system. So it's not only the descriptions because people have implemented that stuff and that's really great. So we have an implementation for EPS Parker. We have an implementation for sequels for see Sparkle and for Sparkle Stream. Bots we usually don't evaluate them really systematically, so there is still this gap between the systems that we have at hand and the way how we evaluate them, and it would be really nice if you could really bridge that gap, and that's what we're trying to do in this work. We're trying to investigate how we can do that in a systematic way.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
OK. So what is out there on the market? Benchmarking audiostream engines. So there are relational and graph based benchmarks on the relational words. There is a very well known a benchmark, at least for the complex event processing and data stream management world. It's a linear ode. Linear Rd comes with a data simulator. It has no queries, but it just specifies the use case and it did find some nice KP eyes and not a single KPI but a couple of them. Fast flower Delivery is a used. Pricing is a must to implement if you want to sell your complex event processing system. However, in the graph world we have MSR bench, which I think emerged out of the correct me. If I'm wrong, I think the blended data project what they did. They did the linked. Sensor data set and which contains real data. So the argument is we have to benchmark on real world data. They have a couple of queries, some of which require what? We would call the semantic criterion so they require you to to apply inference and they have a PPI feature coverage and correctness and recently also they marked Ellis bench, which is a synthetic data set for social network analysis and you also have a fixed set of queries and static background knowledge. That's it as a KPI. They use input throughput and also correctness. So. Why is linear Rd so? Why did I mention it here? So linear Rd is a nice thing because you have an Oracle for validation and you see this for the other datasets as our bench is currently not verified so you can't make any statements about that. And Alice branches verified. Compute the number of results produced by different solutions. Which really means. There is a need for for defining also a validation. If you define a benchmark, because otherwise your results might not be that meaningful as you would like to have it.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So how can we use this for 4:50 systems? So what do we do? What do we really have to change here? And our investigation came up with the conclusion that we cause SFP systems are reactive. We need a couple of key performance indicators and not only input throughput or not, only measuring correctness as such. So what makes SFP system difference? So answers must really arrive within a given amount of time. That means you can care about response time alot whi because answers received after that response time that you defined. You just simply consider these answers as no longer valid, so these are the KP eyes that we came up with. Its response time, maximum input throughput. That means how many triples per second, or how many tables per second. Can you really handle and still give answers time to accuracy time to completions? How many how much time do you really need to get sound and complete results? And of course that is something that we not mentioned in the paper. It's minimum resource minimum. Minimize the resource utilization so we also want to do this with the minimum amount of effort.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So the conclusion number two that we come up with. There is simply no universal benchmark. So the existing benchmarks focus on how can I really test all the aspects. So I define a set of queries that hopefully cover all the interesting questions that I have out there. But you really can't test everything. One thing that was just shown at the workshop at this conference. It showed that that for some of the use cases of one of these systems, it simply was when you, when you made some other assumptions or else change some of the parameters. Your correctness assumption would just break. Which is a bad thing because you then can't make any any statements about this, so the throughput really matter without being correct. The second question you could ask, how much does an enhancement and completely re cost? So it's the combination of the key performance indicators that really makes a good benchmark.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So what we can come up with is if you really want to analyze your system, you first have to define the properties and we investigated the properties of SFP system might come to this in a moment. You then can find out what are the real challenges. So what is really the question that you have to ask if you want to perform experiments? Then you have to ask yourself how to properly evaluate this and then also, and that's one of the most important thing that we believe is you really have to systematically stress test your system. So coming to that acronym if you leave it that way, it's just like packs you try to read it to pack your system. You really try to torture it until it breaks. You want to know exactly the point in time. How many triples can I can really reach until my quality of service criteria is no longer fulfilled? That would be one of the stress tests that you. Could implement here.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So. Coming back to the original question. How close are we really from the perfect benchmark?

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So first we define the properties. So we did a little survey of all these systems and came up with the properties that are really important. If you want to write a targeted benchmark. So it's a support of background data is one of the things that really makes a semantic flow processing system and not an information flow processing system. And it's also the query model that matters. It's the quality of service criteria that you have. The semantics of time, the time model, and also distribution. So for example, if you want to scale out, then distribution is really an issue, and current systems are not really good at doing that, so that's one of the challenges how we can tackle these systems so.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
I'll go through two of these challenges a bit more in detail, so one of the challenges. How do you really manage background data? And that is just actually the question that you have to ask, and what you can do is you can define a stress test so that as just means you should define a test for joins, an inference in flow and background data. We found out that linear roads and fast flow delivery are really bad at this because they incorporate no semantics. Obviously, that is something that Sr Ben Chanel's bench really can be useful. Schema information in the fast flower delivery. There is some some more enhanced schema that you could use in India. Rd is just fixed and that's it and the Sr bench they link out to the to the linked open data set so they may really make use of. The open world assumption that we also use as a distinctive criterion, and what you also should test is the changes in background data.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
However, if you come to another challenge, so another question that you can ask is the expressive power of influence, which simply means it has nothing to do with the first question. So you should test this separately. What does this have? As a consequence, as a consequence? That's you, you really don't want to care about joins, an inference and flow background data. So if you want to really have a conclusion about that question, you should really not tackle this stress test because it doesn't really say too much about what you want to know.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
We can go through the other challenges just briefly. Another challenge that you have is how do you model time? It's one of the one of the points that you have because time is an important property for reactive systems.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
The next thing is, what can you do with your query model? Obviously if you allow to query for aggregates for example, you have shrinking and shrinking semantics. That is, you want to know, for example, in aggregate which individuals are taking part in account that I'm currently computing, and which individuals do not, or if you have non shrinking semantics, you're just interested in account. That is, for example, one thing that we're currently really good at in the benchmarks.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Next thing is managing bursts. At last you would have to define some load balancing tests in here so.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
How close are we found the perfect benchmark? So this is what our study border study came up with. The current systems are. Let's say not yet there. I think it's a great work that has been done and S our bench and Ellis bench are really some two cool datasets because the one is really focusing on large data input for the other Spanish because you have these synthetic data set in the data generator there whereas S our bench really tries to give you. What can I do with real world data and make this more semantic inner dynamic scenario? So.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Again, coming back to the question, how close are we from the perfect benchmark? And the conclusion is not how close are we from the perfect benchmark? But it's really hard claws. Are we from defining appropriate benchmarks? So how do we ask the right questions? How do we evaluate them properly?

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Of course, our approach has limitations. Well, it's I think one of the few papers that did not really implement something, so we not gave any implementation of a concrete benchmark. And we did this on purpose because we did not want to really have a bias towards the specific challenges that you do when you do an instantiation of. So when you really implement the thing, because then you are easily in that trap that you try to define one benchmark that can test them all. The second thing is, they're still exist. No standard for comparing different semantic flow processing systems. That means we did not tackle that problem because it's more or less a thing that the people that wrote these systems have to come up with and agree on OK. We can make this assistance come parable in this in that way, and that was also an interesting discussion that we had at the closing session of the streams processing session at Ice WC at Boston. So people really agreed that there is a dire need to. Really can be able to compare systems in a way that you have a technical platform that defines you. This is the input data. If you want to use sequence, you have to transform it that way such that it behaves more or less the same way as you would test it with. See sparkles, but that is something we didn't tackle.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Coming to my conclusion. The research in semantic flow processing really needs to become more empirical, so I think we are. We are now done with defining systems and it would really be now time to really know what can we actually do with these systems. What are his weaknesses? Where are the strengths? And so on and so forth. There are more KPI's than input throughput only, so the usual metrics that you that you see the usual metrics that you see is input throughput and there's really more about this and that's a good thing because you can really test things under more different scenarios. Our approach would be the. The PAX systematically stress testing approach for defining the right questions, defining the right evaluation criteria, and finally then being able to implement before you actually implement it should really consider following this approach. And of course we do have actually current benchmarking systems, and it would be really good idea to not come up with a plethora of benchmarking systems model, but we reuse that current stuff that is out there and apply to meant. Implement such benchmarks where you can redefine a sound criterion. What you really want to answer and then. Give answers to these interesting questions so. Our final goal would be if this work would contribute to bringing or bridging the gap between systems and evaluation that would be ready. Then we would have been really successful. So. Thanks for attention and we greatly appreciate any feedback or questions, thanks. Thanks a lot. So if you had to start extending those benchmarks that we already have, and you have been presenting, which would be really, really like the next steps that you think that are more important for those types of problems. I mean, how do you actually kind of identify those appropriate cases that are? Are the ones that you were commenting, but one of the works that we currently doing is we try to just perform massive experiments on what really happens if you define sequential joins different just different types of and then really investigate the results of these experiments. To really get an idea first what it what it really means if you define these different kinds of queries. I find it cool in it benchmarks that people try to cover different aspects, but usually one of the queries that you have. It's just you're covering one aspect and you should take that exact query and then try to extend it. Parameterized it, do whatever, but whatever you like, but really focus on the thing that this very quickly should answer. And that's I think that's that's what both benchmarks that are currently there. So Alice pension, S or bench are really good at because you do have the data and you do have a starting point. I was wondering. How to decide what type of queries to ask? The system can. Sometimes you can write, you can write really complicated time based time based queries and then you need a big window and. These like these stress tests, work in different ways. I mean, how do you decide on the queries to use? For the stress tests. But that was that was exactly the thing that that we did not do in this paper. So it's just if you want to come up with a with a more general approach. The worst thing you can do is dive into the actual queries and try to then define extra test for that. What you should do is you should investigate what is really the difference between the queries that, for example, the existing systems ask. And it's it's more important that you that you don't take one and just. Played around with it, so that's what the work that Immanuel presented at the Versus Workshop was about, so he read it. Took one of one of the tests and played around with it and all of a sudden he well he discovered that well, if you turn around this and that parameter, something is severely wrong, and that's that's what you really want to find out. So what really happens if I if I play around with these things, it's just like when, when do I really break the system and that's that's the interesting thing because. Well, if it works, it works. That's cool, that just that's what we show all the time that would turn in your paper, but I think that it's more interesting to re find out what is going on. So what are the actual problems in the scenarios that we have here at hand? And if you incorporate. Rich background knowledge. Well, what we hypothesize and what we hope is that we come up with different results than just matching flow data only. Just I just like to mention also I heard about a system called instance developed at Alta University. Have you checked out this system? No no that would. That would be great to learn about this. So maybe one question or comment also may be preaching these two questions. So when you talking about so the slide you showed about the features being tested in stream processing benchmark.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Compared to semantic had obviously this thing that the two features which were really distinctive for the query expressivity and the inference schemes used. So are any of these benchmarks which are out there? Or is that you mean focusing on paramit rising like on a lever the the query complexity or the ontology complexity? Or is it really mostly on throughput at the moment? At the moment it's mostly on throughput. You just have these fixed queries. So for example, if you want to get it, get a clue what it really means to have a more rich background knowledge incorporated. I think that's one of the things that we did. We proposed in the paper is just you really have to care about. Well what does it Specht step? Do we have to take or what are the consequences? If you for example go from a nice language like RDF's into something more expressive. So for example, what does it mean? If you allow such a reactive system to add negation? That's one of the one of the things, and therefore we separated all these stress tests. So I think you cannot come up with a solution where you try to optimize more complex queries and also get to know about what's really going on when you at the same time increase the complexity of your of your schema. So that's really something you have to keep separate if you want to get a clue about this, that's exactly what this was about. Thanks again to the speaker.
