I'm coming from Technical University of Catalonia and I am presenting this paper. After I will go to the key point is a projective common filter an I will go to the data scenario in formulation and an associated problem that is the date Association problem. Evaluate the algorithm would fight on two types of data. We tried to synthetic data because in this way we put evaluator or in make an exact evaluation and we also apply to real data with the data we have in the small room with the practical usage to try to track ahead of people that are in the room. So we can find it within the interest region or our filter perform much better. We have to find a new scheme to track the location from multiple view and beating common theory in projective geometry we model multiple projects. Projections of 3D location into a tracking loop. People is entering and going out. For example, in this case tracking of persons head hands and we're trying to track these features from a projection of these features on the cameras we have. And finally the occlusion is handled usually in the 3D location estimation, so is not into the tracking itself, so we find. So we find that joint through the location estimation and tracking of this problem and what we're trying to do. The best optimal solution under the condition that is that the relation between the states are linear and the noises we're dealing with are abnormally solution there. However. We are trying to track to track this treaty location including coordinates, taking advantage of the projective geometry of the reservations, and we're also trying to model this nonlinearity between the hidden state and insulated data, taking into consideration these protective nature and handling the non community impulsive noise that is the occlusions also into the tracking loop. Usually the according to obtain are not in the image plane, so. This scheme fails and it loses track, but we find an alternative that was applying predistortion matrix to the observation matrix that forces the estimation of the state to be into the image plane. The occlusions dealing to the tracking loop, so we thought that the observation noise covariance matrix, that is the noise you have in the observations, also controls how reliable is your observation. So this observation will be disregard when we are making destination.