[0.0s - 29.0s]
You said I am Christian Canton. I'm coming from Technical University of Catalonia and I am presenting this paper. I haven't gotten together with my colleagues, German cars and Monster products at technical stuff. Catalog numbers from Spain an with Morata carpet code University, Istanbul, Turkey also would like to thank the similar and should project that had been very helpful during the development of this project. But I will make an outline of.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Presentation I will first make an introduction about what are we dealing with and those I represent the problem we're trying to solve on the objective of this filter we have been proposing. After I will go to the key point is a projective common filter an I will go to the data scenario in formulation and an associated problem that is the date Association problem. During this. Among these two spaces, finally went to the results in the performance of the algorithm and present some questions on future future research. Questions at the end will be very welcome.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So I perceive we are working with small rooms and problem that we usually faces to trick attract three locations that are representing features. For example, in this case tracking of persons head hands and we're trying to track these features from a projection of these features on the cameras we have. For example, in this case very illustrative that these two people inside the room and we are able to detect their faces an. One result of this tracking of these three locations from the projection could be the trajectories of these people inside the small room. This information can be very useful if you are trying to make a higher semantic analysis of what is going on inside the small room. For example, who is entering who is quitting and would be very useful data for this high semantic modules analysis. But what would have been reviewing the standard approaches to this problem? We found that when we're talking three location from 2D projections on.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
With the cameras first usually have an installation problem that is taking this to the features into the images and afterwards making a correspondence about among these views. But this is an initialization problem that have been already solved in the literature. But while we will indeed with the tracking problem, that usually it's solved in the literatures. 3D location estimation. From the projections, we estimated the three the 3D plays and afterward we make a comment tracking over this estimation. What we find out is that this approach, at least in our point. If you have some drawbacks, that this that this problem is deal's two disjoint problems. Also, the data from the end cameras is regarding just one observation that is fit into a trackman common tracking. And finally the occlusion is handled usually in the 3D location estimation, so is not into the tracking itself, so we find.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
It could be interesting to find an alternative solution too. Give us a better results maybe. So we find that joint through the location estimation and tracking of this problem and what we're trying to do. The improvement we propose our unified framework to problems that is also taking into account the protective nature of the observations. And finally we find also an occlusion detector scheme that is 3D to the joint three to the operational scheme that is also inside the tracking log itself, so this scheme.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
For example, what we are applying to is for tracking of human bodies, whichever we're tracking the joint from the projections. For example, we can detect the hand and you can track this hand from its projections. This is the example we have. So to go into the details, I will just make a short review of common filtering.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
That is, just we're trying to estimate and state that is a is government is stochastic difference equation that is, the previous stage is related with the next step through this app metrics and have some noise. It is a process noise and we can. We are trying to infer this state from the observations we are gathering through this observation matrix age. Usually common filter price. The best optimal solution under the condition that is that the relation between the states are linear and the noises we're dealing with are abnormally solution there. Goshen. However. When we are dealing with with this scenario, projection is nonlinear scene after more fees from the 3D positions to the projections in the camera, this is nonlinear. But if we are dealing that with projective space, it's linear. Have to say that also and also occlusions if we're trying to model the occlusion inside this scheme. This is we can model it as a noise, but it's not the ocean noise, so this. His scheme failed somehow to explain this model. So we try to define an alternative. There's a projective,

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Filter, which we call it. We are trying to track to track this treaty location including coordinates, taking advantage of the projective geometry of the reservations, and we're also trying to model this nonlinearity between the hidden state and insulated data, taking into consideration these protective nature and handling the non community impulsive noise that is the occlusions also into the tracking loop. So if we take into account these promises, we can still apply common theory having a Newtonian dynamic model model that is taking into account the position and.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
At the end, acceleration and taking projection as input data for someone just to I will review quickly our approach. If you are trying to relate the observations that you have that are projections with the state you have, that is a 3D position and you are trying to. Do this through the projection matrix. That would be a natural idea. The problem half is when you are. Iterating the common filter. Usually the according to obtain are not in the image plane, so. This scheme fails and it loses track, but we find an alternative that was applying predistortion matrix to the observation matrix that forces the estimation of the state to be into the image plane. So it resolved the conflict quite like well and the other problem we had was the noise model. So was how to make.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The occlusions dealing to the tracking loop, so we thought that the observation noise covariance matrix, that is the noise you have in the observations, also controls how reliable is your observation. So we thought that is if we can decompose this matrix in some coefficients that when or observation it's valid so there's no occlusion, we can regard the noise as Goshen. And we put this balance noise, but if we find an occlusion, we can put a very high coefficient. So this observation will be disregard when we are making destination. So we find the method also to set this. To solve this problem of the occlusions and it lead us to another problem at this date Association and occlusion detection to set this beta parameters.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
This date Association problem it's mainly to determine in the special correspondent of projection generated by the same 3D feature in two time instance an when we cannot establish this correspondence, we can say that we have detected an occlusion and modify the matrix air accordingly. So just.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Schematically, I'm skipping all the details that are already in the paper, so just make it long an idea of disassociation processes. For example, have an estimation of this state S. Then we make an extrapolation, so we try to find the best estimation in the next instant from with the previous instant and with the process noise we can define an uncertainty region. This is this ellipsoid Sigma. Is ellipsoid and we can say that the true observation and the true state of the of the variable we're tracking must be inside this ellipsoid. So if we project this scenario into the camera, we can say we can find the point that minimizes the MONOVISC distance and for example, associate this point with the next stage so we can make the tracking and made Association in the case where there are no points inside this ellipsoid, we can say that. There's an occlusion and we can just say that in this image there's no data, so we can set this beta parameter to. A very high value to these regards observation.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So in order to. Evaluate the algorithm would fight on two types of data. We tried to synthetic data because in this way we put evaluator or in make an exact evaluation and we also apply to real data with the data we have in the small room with the practical usage to try to track ahead of people that are in the room. The data is for calibrated cameras and at this resolution with 25 frames per second.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So the results we ran two experiments further forwards taking Goshen noise, so we generated the ground truth path. We had some noise introduced into the 3D. Then we make the projections and with this projection onto the images, we try to infer the true state. So have a pointer but OK. We run this experiment for different number of cameras, for example, in this graph you have the error of tracking versus the noise variance. An you can see that the the more cameras will have that this this line depicted with different colors. The less error we have and also we run the experiment complying to compare the two methods or methods objective common filter that is aligned with the field markers and the standard common filter we found in the literature. So we can find it within the interest region or our filter perform much better. So we're. Outperforming the standard approach around 35% here we have. I don't know if it's quite clear. We can see there's the black line in this. Is figuring the in the right? OK. OK, thank you in this figure. In the in the right you have the black line that is a ground truth and you have that approximations. The Kalman filter, the projective Kalman filter from an interview and you can see the projected Kalman filter approach tracks more smoothly and more just to the ground truth.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Also we tried to apply the same experiment but also having impulsive noise, that is that the equations and we when we apply the two hour. If we find out that the projective common filter behaves much more better than you do this Association data process. While the standard common filter just have higher or.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So also just know keep into the synthetic data we applied also this common protective common filters the rail Dayton where we track we try to track the people inside the small room at UBC and the input data we're trying to track was the top of the non overlapping foreground region that is the top of the person that had an when the two people were very close, filter usually lose track, but predictably, filter keep it properly.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Appendix example here. There's these two people, the dogs they have is the I will play it again that they have at the top is the tracking and even when they cross. How? Yeah, kind of. How sorry. OK, you see that when they cross each other, they the common practice common filter. You construct that it was we're looking for, while the other approaches lose track.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So far we have some conclusions for this work. We have to find a new scheme to track the location from multiple view and beating common theory in projective geometry we model multiple projects. Projections of 3D location into a tracking loop. We also define the GNU GNU Occlusion detection combining 2D and 3D data. An also had comperable complexity between projective common filter and common filter. And also real time performance more I have to say that this data is very useful when we are trying to analyze meeting on what's going on. People is entering and going out. That is what we are currently doing at the PC on our future. Work is to compare our results, particle filtering and what we're doing now and applying this technique to body tracking. That is, it's also where we are currently reserved so.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Thank you very much for your attention and just. And I stick to the time, so if that's any question, I gotta. So we have 5 questions. Hey connect. Hello. Do you see a word on how you actually expected evolution? How I detected? How I detected occlusion so I have an estimation of the three state. I can make a projection in the next time Stan Times the instant and I project onto the bill and I tried to find a special correspondence between these things. Uncertainties region. If the there's no observation inside this uncertainty region, I'd say that there's no. Near data or have a threshold and say this data. In this view, there's no correspondence, so I say that there's an occlusion in this view. Actually what I show there. I don't know keep. Is that your question or how you take? Any can go. Just based on geometric consider. Yeah it's just based on geometric contributions. That's a question. Question. Thank you.
