You think I've covered all of reinforcement learning, so I'm going to focus on model based reinforcement learning. We know that there's K actions and states, we just don't know what they do, and we've got a discount factor. We're going to say a strategy of learning a learning algorithm is going to be acting in the world. Alright, so so that's an if you don't do that then that's a mistake and we're going to let Em be abound on the total number of mistakes, and that bound has to hold with high probability 1 minus Delta. Well, turns out model based approaches can be pack MVP that they don't necessarily have to be 'cause. Well, depending on what it assumes. And the basic idea that drives the story that I was just telling a lot of the algorithms that actually have been shown to have these guarantees is the notion of optimism under uncertainty. This is a well known idea. This is very clever actually, which says that if you can't reach unknown states quickly then you can achieve near optimal reward. Model learning is a supervised learning problem. We get to observe labels for the first set of them, say M of them, and then future inputs are drawn from the distribution. But only if it's sure that it's right. So it's like like the background is not allowed to make mistakes like the mistake bound. There's no distribution assumption. Another mistake model you can pack learn, but it's not the other way. We we could do some examples but but but if this is the way that's going to be, here's why this is very well suited to model learning. Or you can say I don't know. So if the output is a vector, each component is a probability, then as long as you could quick learn each of the components of that vector, you can quick learn the entire vector. So these seem like really kind of simple, obvious examples, but what's nice is that this is exactly what you need to make a standard transition function in reinforcement learning, right? Discovered before another thing, you can also quick learning the union of two quick, learnable classes. Up, down, left, right A&B. Forward backward turn left turn right kind of sidell left inside alright. If you don't know the structure, it's really hard to know how to apportion that data, so it ends up being a very different kind of problem. That's not the only kind of game we can play in reinforcement learning. That's where you get to make your next decision, so this whole thing just keeps looping over and over again and your task is to choose actions to maximize rewards. There's a whole field in artificial intelligence that studies planning is that there's something missing in the background knowledge or something about the rules of the game that we don't necessarily know. Assigning representing the model in terms of the objects in the world. So there's ataxia, passenger there's walls as destinations and instead of keeping track of explicit states or even features of states, we talked about objects and attributes of objects. So the learner specifically tries to represent his transitions in terms of those objects and we do get much more human like kinds of expl. So dealing properly with delayed gratification. Alright, so here's that robot finding the ball problem again. It turns out there's other families of approaches in reinforcement learning. By searching for the action that maximizes value so that so we haven't really lost much. So we have a bunch of tradeoffs here.