I will just called multitask learning. And if you have the topic and then they discuss two recent works and the use of sparse coding, the contents multitask learning. So my model is that the regression vectors are all linear combination of some vectors which form a dictionary. So this is this is the method, so I take the sum over the task right and then hear what you have inside is the minimum. Right? So this is like a lasso with the feature map the transpose X. OK, so here what we want to what you want to do what you want to study. So, so under some conditions this method is nothing else than sparse coding, which. So here if so, if we take our method and we take the limit for N going to Infinity, which was the square loss, then we consider this a model here which which I put here. So this set S encourage some common structure between the different task. Learn a dictionary right which allows for a good reconstruction of all these images. For example, this could be a matrix norm, so in this sense, multitask learning is a problem of matrix estimation matrix regularization. So this is what I call independent task learning right? Is sample from the from the uniform distribution on the unit sphere, so S one is equal to 1 right and S Infinity? Do a different analysis, which is perhaps a bit more general analysis within the context which is called learning to learn which is. The terministic, but that are randomly chosen. Now for sparse coding we had previously derived abound in this paper, and they are smaller on the performance of sparse coding. And here is 1 example so so I have different people. Muscular movements, for example cheek raiser or other ones. So I want to control the sum of the rank of each materialization or unfold unfolding of the tensor right? All the fibers for the Delta mode one after the other input matrix and so on. He should issue this regression problems to one person 1 user and the goal is to predict what people like. So predict people user ratings to products. And then there's a vast literature in this field about how to put constraints between the different predictors of different regression problems. Is this set so I wanted the spectral norm of each method. So here's our proposal. Nice weather regularizer is the average of the convex envelope. Is positive relationship between multiple learning tasks to improve performance over independent task loans under specific conditions. So you cannot solve the task independently. Another motivating application which has been studied quite where multi task learning has been applied quite insensitive is the problem of object detection in computer visions. So here each task is abiding classification task and each is associated to one object.