Tomorrow there's going to be practical session at the same time it's going to be split between Theano and Torch. I know another one for torch, I don't remember which one is going to be where, but it's going to be hands-on exercises. So all the material is online on GitHub. So first of all, I'm going to give you an overview as a quick overview of Theano. Then explain more in detail the graph definition, the graph structure that TNO is using. Then, which graph transformations and manipulation you can do with piano. How it's done internally is that we have a graph that has two kinds of nodes. One kind of those we call variable nodes or variables, and they represent value they are going to have to hold values where we compute when we actually execute the function. And we have apply nodes that represent mathematical operations being applied on these values, and so in practice, for instance, the input and output of the graph, those are variables they will hold. But you'll have two output variables that will be computed at the same time. An intermediate variable can be used by several. Ann, those variables have a strong type, meaning that unlike in Python, where you can have the same variable being. Different types and the most used or tensor types for NUM PY arrays on the main host or CPU memory and GPU array for arrays on the GPU using CUDA. And the road festival pattern. And the memory layout is not part of the type either, so you can have like a matrix, A transpose matrix, slices and so on. It's the implicit replication of a tensor along an axis that exists, but that's of length one. Then what you expect is that that vector is going to be replicated. You expect the dimension error or size mismatch. Something like that. That way, if you have a vector, it's going to be treated as a row in that case, and broadcastable dimensions are always added implicitly to the left. You cannot have side effects that happen when you create new expression or when you build expression. They build them with, add inputs, existing variables, an that gets added to the computation graph you're working on, so you can do things like if you have a variable A, you can do things like. A + = 1 because Python will just interpret that as redefined a as a plus one and you still have the old a value that exists somewhere in the graph, and if it was the input to other construction. So it's because you cannot return a new object. Python requires that you return the same object and so you have to use things like ink sub tensor, an sets of tensor which creates a new variable, and then you would have to use that new variable to in your new expression. There are a couple of specific OPS or the specific operations that have side effects like print assert. Also, we cannot really redefine Python keywords like if an for an Lang and so on. If you do, if some variable, then Python is going to cast that into a Boolean an. If you do. It will just execute the four loop once when you build the graph, so sometimes that's what you want to do. There's Daniel scan. To begin, Theano is a compiler of mathematical expressions and what that means is that it makes it possible to define mathematical expressions using an easy syntax which is really close to the syntax of NUM PY. So if you know Python, if you've already used NUM PY, then it's not that difficult to adapt, then it makes it possible to. It generates code optimized codes or uses already optimized backends like optimized blast like CUDA, an also custom C code so that the execution as well is fast. And so if you have, for instance, a function compound function from RN to R with only like single scalar as an output, that's the composition of like F&G for instance. As the DOT product between two Jacobian matrices, which represent the whole. We don't want that whole. And since the shared variable has a value associated to it, we need to create it with an existing value. I mean W here and the value and B here because their implicit inputs and if you call F on only exe file Angiomax while you get the same values as before. To compile channel functions, you can call get value and set value. But what we have is a function that also computes update value or new value to update shared variables with. So for instance, again still doing gradient descent on the same function will compute the costs, compute tiano grad of C with respect to W&B. Do only one traversal of the graph nodes, like one for the value and then one for B. So again, W. NBR, implicit inputs, and in that case update W. An update B. Part of it comes from graph optimizations. If you want to debug, we have numerical stability optimizations. The GPU happens during the graph optimization phase, because basically the dot product of a of two CPU matrices is 1 operation. Like the fast run is the default, it will include most of the optimization. It will include CPU and GPU code generation and compilation and so on. We have optimized or fast compile which enables the code generation for CPU and GPU, but does not apply all the graph optimizations. I suspect that some optimization is causing some trouble. Well, we wanted to make it as transparent as possible so. I mean it means that the shared variables that you create will be created on GPU by default. And the GPU CUDA code will be computed will be generated and compiled and loaded. Everything will work transparently. We have a legacy back end which is still the one used in the last release of Theano that only supports one GPU at the time, and that only supports float 32 Azadi type, but the new one, which is completely functional and is available in the development branch, and we hope to have a new release soon featuring it. If you're using the CUDA back end and you won't find probably like CUDA CUDA 0 if you want to change float X, you can specify like that and you can also specify like the default compiler compilation mode. In that case, if you try that, you get an error message and you have the. Yeah. So the question was if you already have C code and it's working fast, can you? So if you have GPU codes in Python, maybe maybe I should answer your question later. To get additional speedup, you need to write CUDA codes I guess for that specific operation, but this is. First of all, loops in Theano and symbolic loops. It's all scan an inside. Then you'll have a really small channel graph in there with like 2 inputs and one output an an addition. Enables us easily to take gradients through it as well, so the scan operation also defines a graph function like any regular node in the graph. And it has a GPU implementation optimizations that move. Software projects, most of them are machine learning libraries, but. Not only for instance, by MC Three is actually probabilistic programming programming software using using Theano for automatic gradient starvation and fast execution. There's Splatoon, which is a framework built on top of piano that enables training the same model on multiple GPU's on the same machine, exploiting data. However, sometimes you need if you plan to take a gradient through that loop. Does it make a difference? So here's a small example of how you would. And so the other one, this one for your result is the recurrent States and we provide the number of steps. It's just a list of couple of new things that we have in Theano. Many critical parts like for scan for convolutions, we're not using codeine, an allocation and the allocation of GPU memory which used to be sometimes a bottleneck. So now let me walk you briefly through how you typically would use Theano. So piano defines our language, a compiler and library at the same time, so the language close to NUM Py makes it possible to define symbolic mathematical expression. And then you can execute that function that callable on whatever data you have.