The motivation of this project so we all know and love graphical models we cause the otherwise too easily code. So the corresponding mobile Spiderman there is a function of Marvel. Penetration is good in the sense that every single multivariable knowledge distribution that is Markov where is spectrograph like that can be encoded by some Mobius parametrisation. This happens 'cause we have, let's say some St. An insufficient that each one of these factors is a CDF itself, so that the whole thing is a CDF. But add ventures of that, even though these models are in strict subset of all motivated burnelli models. But it suffers from the same shortcomings and be very computationally intensive in having exponentially many parameters. Which is just maximal set of variables that are connected by directed paths. Sing a graph like this. I'm going to enforce that each of these factors have to be locally Markov with respect to this sub graphs you have there. Is how do we encode each one of these factors that define the joint distribution? I'm going to assume there are actually no directed edges within a single district. OK, so for example, in this graph is a directed edge between X1 and X3 within the same district and four. Just imagine it's just a city F. With uniform marginals U01 marginals. The marginal distributions with patterns that are functionally independent from paraments for the joint distribution. And without of F1 and F2 they could be had could have been generated by any marginal distribution and then tie together by this function H that were originally a result of a bivariate F. So this is just a broad level definition of a copula function is. In this case X5 for example is artificial child X5 star, and once you do that, you don't have directed edges when district anymore. So here using which experts as is condition invalid marginals for continuous data, you have discrete data, could just use the standard conditional probability tables that you see in Bayesian networks. So it's closed under marginalization like bags and it's not it cannot be substituted by other representations, is fundamentally different from chain graphs for example, and it still provides UI is we're waiting off independence constraints just like what you do if it is separation. Of course, there is a trivial way of doing that and just make everybody independent, so you're respecting ordering dependencies that are in the graph, but they don't want to take this extreme positive she wants to build families of model sense of distribution that are quite flexible that don't reduce many other constraints besides. There's a whole continuum of models can use here actually going to present first some of the current approaches that tackle this problem an see what are their shortcomings before introducing hours later and the very end.