[0.0s - 29.0s]
So it's just me between you and the beach, so try to keep this brief. This is going to work which has a bundle any White Day from the Gatsby. United UCL. So let me start. This is some short context about.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The motivation of this project so we all know and love graphical models we cause the otherwise too easily code. Some condition independence constraints. So in this example we have 5 variables. There are some constraints there can written off from the graph very easily. Now suppose for some reason I want to represent on their margin of the distribution. So I integrate away some of these variables and there will be remaining dependencies constraints there. So as an example, let's say I want to marginalized you out of this distribution. They want to represent the remaining condition independence constraints that we have there. So basically it boils down to pick up the constraints. That depends on you you throw them away. And I want a graphical model for that.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So there will be there was original path between X2 and X3 and what we have now is only four remaining vertices. You can try to fix this by introducing some sort of directed edges between X2 and X3, But if you tried this in either direction, it's going to happen. Is you guys going to introduce constraints that didn't exist before in original full model? Regardless of which direction we tried to put there?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So one operative there one Patch is to add some extra edge to avoid introducing is extra independence constraints. But when you do that, you're actually destroying the representation of some constraints that originally exist in your model, which is kind of misses the point of using a graphical model to begin with. So the point is, dogs are not closed under marginalization. That's what's motivated people to use different representations for this. Graphical models. And this is presentation knows.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
See a cyclic direct mix graph. Is mixed because it uses more than one type of edge. So here also have BI directed edges to represent something that was marginalized out, so it's a cyclic because there is still forbidden cycles or directed edges. So it's closed under marginalization like bags and it's not it cannot be substituted by other representations, is fundamentally different from chain graphs for example, and it still provides UI is we're waiting off independence constraints just like what you do if it is separation.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Now, while we're doing this, why not just using latent variables everywhere? So suppose you have some applications where you want some latent variable, explicitly represented instantly. Invalidate easy. We really don't care, so this is an example of taking from some classic textbook on social Sciences. We have indicators measuring latency of interest, like initialization and accreditation factors across different nations. So you are interested in the representation of these factors as latent variables, but you also have here some sort. Of an extra correlation that comes from errors accumulated overtime, so we have those by directed edges there representing extra factors across time that include associations. Not explain why the latent variables. Yeah, very sparse residual structure there, so they really need an explicit representation there. Use this hybrid representation by some latency explicit and some of those simplicity or likelihood function. So why not just introduce some sort of obviously related? That was terrific.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Dentist with visual correlation. Well, because sometimes you have something to gain when you take off problem from different perspective. When imagine other ways of parameterized. Luckily with functions this guys is going to give you rise to new feelings of models anyways or computing our estimators. This is part of something I'm going to introduce in this talk. And there are also some theoretical defenses of doing that when see from the point of view or model selection, which I'm not really going to discuss in this talk. So.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
What I want here is, given this mixed graph formulation for where she can read off in dependencies, I want to parameterise some likelihood functions that are going to respect the independence is encoded in the graph. Of course, there is a trivial way of doing that and just make everybody independent, so you're respecting ordering dependencies that are in the graph, but they don't want to take this extreme positive she wants to build families of model sense of distribution that are quite flexible that don't reduce many other constraints besides. Independence constraints. There's a whole continuum of models can use here actually going to present first some of the current approaches that tackle this problem an see what are their shortcomings before introducing hours later and the very end. I'm going to exemplify how this construction of these models can be using practice, but simple kind of partially based on parameter learning procedure which you can evaluate what we gain by using these novel likelihood functions.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So as I said, there's some work already out there on how to present this graphical models and to give you a flavor of this. As an example, people have done that for the Gaussian by directed case where don't have any directed edges in this case, and what usually have here is the result of marginalizing some values, as I said.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And in this example we have four variables and you have four edges connecting these variables in. What this means in terms of a Gaussian distribution are marginal independence one strengths, so X one X4. There don't have an edge between them. This is just emerging independence constraint in terms of the covariance matrix is just question, so zero. The corresponding entry of the covariance matrix. So what you have is a sparse covariance matrix instead by sparse precision matrix like what we have in Gaussian. Call Brandon fields.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The multivariate binary case things that you start getting much more complicated. So what do I have done that passes appealing for this other way of encoding and multivariate binary distribution? Is that called? Sometimes the Mobius paramaters? The idea is if we choose any subset of these random variables, you can define a corresponding parameter QA, which is a joint probability that subset having the value of 0. So for whatever instantiation of your variables of your joint distribution, you can represent that as a function of this so called mobile spirometers. And the reason why they have this name is because this transformation between QMP is a type of Mobius transform.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
If you do have this model, independence constraints like you have that by directed model there, what will happen is that some of these models parameters are going to be functions of others. So if you have for instance, disconnected sets of sets of variables in which there are some higher pairs that are not connected by any path in this set, like for example X1 and X4, they form a disconnected set in this graph and their corresponding model spider. What you see there can be factorized because X1 and X4 Remodulin independent. So the corresponding mobile Spiderman there is a function of Marvel. Spiderman is in connected sets. But notice here that the number of connected says he actually quite large and actually can see that the whole set of vertices is a connected set.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So this has this. Penetration is good in the sense that every single multivariable knowledge distribution that is Markov where is spectrograph like that can be encoded by some Mobius parametrisation. However, the number of params explode very easily, and even sparse graph. This happens 'cause we have, let's say some St. Some tree structure like you will see there. Be at least one connected sets for any choice of leaves on the tree. So there exponentially many of these sets, so they have exponentially many parameters even in three.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Ice. So different perspective to parametrised this by Director models came from the recent work by 1 frame new AI 2008 I think. So the idea was motivated by something completely different is how to have a compact parametrization for CDF of a cumulative distribution function. What you did is, well, you can define a factor for each click in this graph and can define a CDF as a product of these factors. An insufficient that each one of these factors is a CDF itself, so that the whole thing is a CDF. It turns out their independence model behind is exactly the model by directed graph. In cause the same conditions, condition independence constraints. However. This is not a complete formalisation. Introduce extra constraints. So one way of saying this is when when repres.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Sent that CDF in terms of its mass function in terms of density function. So the top formula there is just the usual way by which you convert a CDF into PMF. Anet can see this is also type of Mobius transform. And actually, you can imagine those multivitamins I just before as a CDF themselves in the binary case. They just other types of CDF's. That the difference here is in this cumulative distribution network population you have the extra extra constraints you see at the bottom. Any mobile spider is going to factorize in terms of the clicks of the graph instead of the connected sets, so these are constraints that don't exist.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
In the complete parametrization. But add ventures of that, even though these models are in strict subset of all motivated burnelli models. They are much more tractable to begin with. The name of Paramus is exponential only on the size of the largest click. Instead of your number of variables, and they have several nice computational properties. This transformation see on that top can be done efficiently by dynamic programming, so this explanation the tree away from the graph instead of the number of variables and also their alternative ways of fitting these models which don't have before, like using composer likelihood, which is completely free from these models, because calculating marginals is straightforward, so you can do very efficient parameter fitting these models which you couldn't do in the complete modules on formulation or such models.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So what I want to do here is to generalize this idea that complete cases where you have mixed graphs, where have both directed and by directed edges which was not deal with that CDN formulation and this can get a bit tricky because we can have this simile cyclically presentations you have there, which is still legal in this family of models. There are complete parallelizations for those families too. But it suffers from the same shortcomings and be very computationally intensive in having exponentially many parameters.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So I'm going to do is started by construction that parameterized models like this inspired by the city and formulation, and showed that in a series of increasingly complex steps. I will start. Well, some very high level factorization of these models, so I'm defining here this concept of a district. Which is just maximal set of variables that are connected by directed paths. Sing a graph like this. For instance, you have X one X2 as a district. X3X4 is another district. So for each of these districts, there will be parents or some of these verses. And the final factor for each one of them, which is the probability of each of the set of Arizona district given parents out, is outside the district.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
In a graph like that, basically have this composition autograph. You're going to find P of X3X4 given X1 as one factor and P of Exxon XTO given X4 as a second factor on top of it. I'm going to enforce that each of these factors have to be locally Markov with respect to this sub graphs you have there. So for instance this case you have to have in each of 1 these factors. Assume that X one X4 are going to be marginally independent. OK.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So this seems a bit dodgy. 'cause when you look at a high level factorization, you're going to see some of these verses show up in both sides of the conditioning bar. And which looks like a single representation, but in fact is not precisely. For these reasons I mentioned to you when it was this local independence constraints. To give this example of the graph for marginalized or variables what we have in the end is 1, just like what expect from directed model and normalizing constant is always fixed to one. And this can be shown by removing one person at one vertex at a time. Marginalized one variable at a time. So what Emotionalize X2, for example? Out of that graph, X2 in this case doesn't have any children, so it can be easily marginalized out of there is of the initial factorization, have there so marginalized X2 you're fine, you end up with that first representation of the marginal of X13 and four. Now when you try to marginalized, X4 gets a bit trickier because XY and X1 as I said, show up different sides of the conditioning bar, but by construction I forced my first factor. To respect the constraint at X14 modular independent so when that happens, this first factor can just drop X4 out of it. I have again, and this cyclic representation OK, marginalized X4 and I keep repeating the process and what I have is exactly 1, so there is only different explicit normalizing constant there.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So this is just a high level parameterization I think. Is how do we encode each one of these factors that define the joint distribution? So the first case. I'm going to assume there are actually no directed edges within a single district. OK, so for example, in this graph is a directed edge between X1 and X3 within the same district and four. Now I'm assuming this is not going to be the case. Back to the general case later.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So this is not the case. What I'm going to do is to define. He tried to CDF for that district, giving its parents. And this joint CDF is defining analogous way to the city and formulation are going to have a factor for each click in this graph or this factor now is conditional sum of the values of their parents. So you have conditional CDF's there. And if you sign that paper that in the end what we get is a model that actually and 1st sponsored independence constraints in their regional district. And I'm not going to show how how to show that what is explaining that paper.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Now what we need to do? Is just to enforce those originally constraints that I required in this formulation here, so require constraints such as local modeling dependencies in each of these subgraphs and need to be able to enforce these in this parametrisation. For that what I'm going to do is repeal the concept of popular models. If you're not familiar, what popular model is? Just imagine it's just a city F. With uniform marginals U01 marginals. The reason why this is interesting is because they are able to encode. The marginal distributions with patterns that are functionally independent from paraments for the joint distribution. So this show how this is done. Imagine have a bite for distribution. And this by Far City F that have that can also be really represented by introducing the marginal CDF's of each variable. So this marginal CDF, that is sit there F1 and F2. Can imagine that an F1 of X&FG of X are arbitrary variables between 01, so you get another presentation for F as given by that function H that you see there, which I don't really care where these why variables are generated from. Searching actually could actually have started from variables that are not. And without of F1 and F2 they could be had could have been generated by any marginal distribution and then tie together by this function H that were originally a result of a bivariate F. So this is just a broad level definition of a copula function is.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So what I'm going to do here is something similar going to define. This 01 there's informative one variables in terms of the marginal conditional distributions. So my graph like this 4X2 or 4X3 I can define corresponding uniformly distributed random variable, sorry. And find a corresponding UU variables for X, X2, and X3. I can plug them back. In the corresponding popular for the joint distribution of that factor. And the result what I get are exactly independence constraints. I need to enforce in each district. So that paper gives the general case, but just as an example. He

[696.0s - 725.0s]
We have X2X3 given X1 and X4. The.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Marshall that you get when you integrate away Extreme is given the bottom. This is a result of evaluating your tree. At its maximum value. And when you do this, marginalization, what you get in the end is the original conditional CDF bacteria. So in this case we get in the end. And that X2 and X4 by construction module independent exactly as you want it. You know requirement or discussed.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Action. OK. So finally I mentioned that I want to allow for directed edges within a scientist.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Correct? And with the way this can get paper again, I don't want to give much detail here, but the general idea is to introduce some sort of artificial variables to get rid of these edges waving at district. So for every variable that seeing this graph can produce some artificial child of it. In this case X5 for example is artificial child X5 star, and once you do that, you don't have directed edges when district anymore. Here are going to.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Basically, couple of graphene districts. But there will be no directed edges within them anymore and define this extra artificial factors is just a deterministic function. Linking linking is extra variables to the original variables that generated. So just reduce the problem to the original.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Directed Edge free formulation. Now, so just an exam.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Full of parameter fitting. How to do that? For this model we did some experiments using some of the shelf models that are put together with this parametrization. So here using which experts as is condition invalid marginals for continuous data, you have discrete data, could just use the standard conditional probability tables that you see in Bayesian networks. So we can tie together. Is Marshalls using copulas and now experiments use this particular type of copula just becauses conversationally easy to evaluate? The carpet is very close to the Gaussian copula, actually. So we did the problem of fitting approach that has two stages just like in the copper literature. What people usually do is to fit in margin separately.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Then fix those parameters and plug them back. The popular function, and that's what I did here. Effect this conditional.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Model separately you fix this parameters, you plug them in in the joint distribution and just to see over the copter parameters and that even a simple Gaussian random walk proposal worked well. In this case notes this is this could be intractable if you have a large freeware treewidth in your graph. But this is just like based on Markov random fields. These problems are doubling, tractable. You try to do in a basin approach. Unless you're three with is limited.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So just did some very straightforward examples in predictive log likelihood using structures that were an estimator using some other off the shelf method as described in the paper. So you can see here. I actually showing the number of BI directed edges in directed edges if fine from this structure, learning procedures. Anhalf about 1/3 of the edges there or sorry 1/4 of the edges. There being BI directed in these standard UCA PCI data sets.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
So in these datasets we compare against a Gaussian model, was a probability model that was doing some previous work by me and serving Ghahramani analisa continuous cases here. Huge improvement by using mixture of experts over Frank popular instead of the original Gaussian formulation for the discrete case. It didn't do that much better than the probability model to be honest. So.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So this is very brief summary of what we did in this paper, and there's a general construction tool for these types of models. Now just or selling other types of directions that could extend this particular use. This structure learning procedure that didn't take into account what the actual parametrization was is completely based on condition independent states. You could try to improve this model by doing joint structure learning in Paramus. Timation is same time and their alternative approaches for estimating these models. As I said, compose, likely or this relatively straightforward apply here and can be very computationally efficient without having ever to resort. Some explicitly can available formulation in this case. And there are of course, errors applications you want to apply this to. Which are. My might be very on. Competitive alternative to models where representing all latent variables explicitly.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
So just like to thank Thomas, which which has some for some useful discussions and.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
I'm happy to take your questions.
