I'm going to talk about improved software fault detection so it's about localising bugs in software. As you probably all know, software is almost never shipped back free, so even if you are testing extensively there usually some bucks remaining in the software business shipped to the customer, and well, obviously such bugs are encouraged huge costs which you would like to try to avoid. Well and as they are not always occurring there obviously hard to reproduce and so they are also hard to find. OK, in order to in order to do graph mining with call graphs, we are faced with some problems concerning the size of such call graphs. About and modern software, there are many loops used, so let's say it's a loop in this. So and this leads to the fact that millions of methods called within one call graph is quite a common case. OK, how can we reduce such a call graph? That's a Rockwall I introduced to you before. Somehow, the conventional approach for locating backs with graph mining techniques, which is the approach from default at all. And well, if you have such a such collection of call graphs, we have to reduce them in order to search for frequent subgraphs, and that can be done with basically every frequent subgraph mining algorithm or. This frequent subgraphs we can do the following. We can identify discriminative subgraphs. And, well, the intuition of this step is that the methods which are the things Easter, discriminative subgraphs, they display an increased likelihood of being responsible for some buggy execution. So just just again we're starting this call graph which reduced somehow. Then we do frequent subgraph mining and now we're looking onto this left branch. So subgraphs which are frequent in failing executions but not. Yeah, the factor is doing something which I call here conventional scoring. But what we're doing now is we're not using this conventional ranking over not using the intermediate ranking as the left approach. This frequency affecting box we're combining these these two kinds of evidence of evidence, and which leads to a combined ranking. So for every for every sub graph we are considering now we're having a passing examples and we're having tailing examples and that allows us to identify edge weights which most differentiate between these two classes. So that's the basic idea of what we're doing now and in order to do that. Every edge in every frequent subgraph is considered, meaning we're having we're having in the roles were having the grass from our collection of glass, the original graph, and every such graph is assigned with a label with the class label. The weight of the edge from A to B within sub graph, one in the first draft of our graph collect call graph collection has the weight 2, so that's a kind of paper reassembling and. Well, when we are having such kind of table, we can basically apply every kind of feature selection which is known from the literature. Rate of which edge is most discriminating between the two classes of class of correct in the class of failing program executions? The back was, I knew where the bug is in the back was included in this second method, so that's what happens frequently. But at the end, if you're giving such a list to a software developer as a software developer would start with the first method, he would just do a review of this method. OK, what you what you should remember for the evaluation on the next slide is that lower ninth line numbers are better, so it's best case would be if our method which identifies the correct Buck in line number one but line number two or three. And as we are on the graph mining workshop, I'm obviously going to present you a rough mining based approach well and also graph mining in software engineering is not new. And what we are claiming is that this kind of approach to analyze weighted graphs can be applied in other domains as well, so. OK, in our field of application and software engineering this approach we are able to detect new important class of graphs. I showed quite a significant improve of this quality of localizations. OK, what's my current and future research? At first I do a short review of data mining and software engineering about techniques which have been used so far. Before I come to our weighted call graph mining approach. OK, as you all know, traditional data mining techniques like decision trees, neural networks or whatever they're using with a feature. Vectors of numerical or categorical values and how can you fit data from software engineering into such such a framework. And you are searching for patterns which are more likely in buggy software than in correct software. But unfortunately there are some challenging challenges with such an approach. Well the first static analyzers you're having some problems that even if you are having like hundreds of metrics, even if you if you derive every possible metric from a piece of source code, these metrics are usually not enough to describe certain piece of software completely. So what we are proposing or but already has been proposed from the graph mining community somehow is looking at program executions and which are represented as a dynamic call graph, and then if you're considering such call graphs, you can analyze its structure and try to find some interesting patterns within such call graphs. OK, what can we do when analyzing call graphs? There's another quite common kind of bug which I call call frequency affecting Buck. That's a bug, for example, in the loop condition within Method C. So back in the loop condition in method C might lead to like an increased number of executions of methods within this loop.