So I'm going to talk about more selection in planning problems. This is a joint work with my postdoc Tan and with a colleague at Business School at MIT. You go to companies that dig out gold. Those companies are huge. I mean my mind is not, you know like 5 different miners working day in day out and mine is this is. Of of the company is to keep the throughput constant. But also there is a whole supply chain following, so there's a whole large supply chain that includes trains factories in their employees that actually are in charge of moving the dirt and then later on the OR from one place to the other. Fairly complicated, the model is not is not known for mining, but it's known for the rest of the supply chain, and here by no by no name I'm putting your. That is what's known as PSP or print service providers. Scheduling problem, so it's a scheduling problem. So there is a question where does the model come from? So you want to know if you want to send or not. But the model is known. The wisdom is to do what's known as the FM method, so its recency, frequency and monetary value. I mean, it's very clear hard to do that. You know, in a couple of weeks or in a month when you flip over the pages so Dynamics Matter and there is the issue of retainment of customer that seems seems crucial, and I said the problem here is how to how to discretize and I should mention that in this problem as well as well as in the other problems, nobody is going to use to let you use exploration. You need to raise money, so there's a lot of lot of money on the line. Those are real real problems. The state space is huge, so in all the problems I mentioned the real state space is gigantic. The other other distinctive feature that batch data are available you have lots of data, probably more than you actually want, but you cannot do exploration, so there is really no channel and we think about the mining problem. So the operative solution is you build a small MDP that you solve and then you apply. The reason that this is an operative solution is there are several reasons for that. The most important aspect that risk uncertainty of are of the essence and in all the problems that we mentioned. You do have them also model selection problem itself, which different basically the way it works is that you go to different consultants. Sometimes I mean completely out of the blue and you need to choose a model so we both problems are interest and you need to address both and it's. Why there is another assumption that is a sound problematic is that you assume that you can trade off different elements and then you can monetize. An functions HK an returns one of those says there supposed to be a true model and the definition here is that the model selection is. So that's I think, a fairly natural and and simple definition of the model selection problem. So, just to recap how it works well, you look at the likelihood of observations given model I. So you maximize overall parameters and here just look at the log likelihood of the trajectory given the model and the dimension of the parameter is just. I is the norm of. In Split in a consistent manner, states in M1 and Gator 2M2. So basically we just collect the reward estimates for every for every state we look at the mean square error an essentially this is this is it? That in the limit we have that reward, the criterion as T goes to Infinity goes in every probabilistic manner that you like to the sum over over the states. We have a very simple result, but still it's a it's kind of interesting. The reward in every state computer mean square error and just find the one with the lowest lowest. And I mean basically now this here is you know you can get whatever you can imagine with many exponential and write it over three slides. The expected average word expectation can be a tricky thing. Finding the model is easy as long as you have the right model. And last but not least, there is the issue of their events, so very advance or commonly now called black Swans. They can be an extremely meaningful an extremely destructive elements in your in your system, and there are events can happen from just not knowing the probability distribution, so we don't know the distribution. So by looking at expected reward we basically these are those assumptions that we make an I will attack just the model is known. There was a poster about learning the model actively, so that's a different problem. And finally, there is the issue of of large state spaces. We don't care so much about about the feature selection problem. What mean close so close here means in a in a sense of. So let me just tell you a little bit about types of uncertainty and situate this talk and this research in the global world of planning uncertainty. Something that can be done there is another type of concerns that have a probabilistic assignment in the parameter, so you don't know the parameters value, but you have some distribution, typically beige and beige, and type of analysis, so you have a prior or you see some data will be able to get the posterior and you have probabilistic uncertainty of the parameters and then you can. What usually people think about us not to when they have a marketing process in mind, is uncertainty, which is due to random traditional reward. So basically you can look at expected reward that you can also look at other criteria that are risk sensitive, mean variance tradeoffs, percentile optimization, coherent risk measures, and there are many other other such a risk measures.