My part of my PhD work, which I'm doing at the University of Novi Sad and with collaboration with. The curse of dimensionality, which is distance concentration and this refers to the tendency of distances between. Appropriate as a sphere will be the smallest and distribution of distances to the data set mean. The other thing is that points which are close closer to the data set mean tend to be close to other points. So let's move on to real data and the two important factors for real data are obviously dependent attributes and points are grouped or clustered together. Regarding dependent attributes, we concluded that the skewness of NK depends on intrinsic dimensionality of a data set, so we shouldn't we. The 3rd way we examined the effect of dimensionality reduction on skewness. For grouping, we conclude that hubs are in proximity of cluster centers in real data, and for this we did. To point out is that in high dimensions points with low NK can also be considered distance based outliers 'cause they're far away from other points and. And hub skin because their probabilistic outliers actually. Which has an analytical form so it can be plotted, thank you. Simply as a number of times, X occurs among key nearest neighbors of all other points in a data set. And it was observed in several applications. How does this affect machine learning? We distinguish papers into bad ones and good ones based on whether labels don't match or do match. So basically the question is how do how do they originate and what is their influence on classification algorithms? Assumption that most pairs of points in a cluster should be of the same class. So we measured this. You will get bad hubs. And to many other points, so we introduce. The vote of each neighbor by weighing down bad hubs. Consider the Gaussian kernel and. Actually as we end by progressively moving points from the training sets in the order of decreasing. Bad scale currencies and what we get is that we ruin the performance of SVM's significantly more than with random removal, and this is because bad hubs tend to be good support vectors. And basically the question was asked what caused the skewness of NK in those applications. Are some songs more similar to others? Do some people have fingerprints or voices that are hard to distinguish from other peoples? So As for clustering, I will just point out that for this and based clustering, there are two objectives minimize within cluster distance and maximize between cluster distance and the skewness of NK effects both objectives. They don't last well because of high within cluster distance, but we also showed that they don't trust hubs don't last well also, but because of low doing cluster distance. Regrettably and final information retrieval, we retrieve documents most similar to query documents using standard settings. We think we hope is an understudied phenomenon that can have a strong impact on many things. Like what does have to do with how can express probabilities, probability distributions?