Say something about the biological problem that we are trying to. We are trying to investigate is all of you knows what is a cell and what is the nucleus of the cell. We create this input magics in which we have all the chromosome regions on the Rose and 82 cell types on the columns and each entry of this matrix is value that represents the peak intensity. There I see that the sets as gold standard for the real 3D interactions that have been discovered recently, so they had this paper published in Cell in December 2014 from delivery Man. And from a biological sense. We don't know its definition in a statistical sense, so we have this way. And we then replaced the names of these chromosome regions with the DHS, the nays, hypersensitive signals profiles that we saw before, so all the real values that represent the. The values that. For example, for Crimson 21 we have a number of possible interaction around 20,000,000. We run an optimization phase in which we try different models with different hyperparameters on a training set and then we test on held out validation set. To test our performances, we decided to use the Matthews correlation coefficient instead of the receiver. Roc curves because the MCC is able to take into account take into account the different sizes of the classes that we have in the in the confusion matrix and we decided to use the likely threshold for the computer metrics that corresponds to zero and the cosine distance. Interaction we had to choose the preliminary results with our model with 410 units and only one hidden layer, but with stats aren't going so I will have soon results with more hidden units and shortly with more hidden layers and that we think will be much better. And at the end of the project we want to have something like a table in which we state the interactions that found by Terminix colleague from University of Washington. The interactions found by. The structure of chromatin is very, very important in the biology of the cell because because it can affect the gene regulation and the transcription, transcriptional regulation, and when it's more open it's more likely that. And so transcriptional regulation depends on physical interactions between regulatory elements. That sometimes might be not adjacent in earlier sense, but they might be adjacent in a 3D sense. And one other aspect that has been introduced in the last since 2012 is the importance of Dnas, one hypersensitivity where there's one is an enzyme and they recently discovered that the person sensitivity to tease enzyme can be used as a measurement of a level of openness of the chromating. Hypersensitivity to DNA is 1 are very high. That might be true interaction through long range interaction, and sorry that the labels are too short an. That is, vectors of values. Statistics correlation measures were good starting point, but they had some troubles. For example, they were not able to detect interaction that were later found in some icy datasets that which are now the current gold standard, and because only the 0.1% of those interaction detected with the Pearson correlation measure were found in these datasets, and so we decide to develop and design A machine learning computational pipeline able also to integrate.