My name is Matt Dennis. I'm based in the University of Portsmouth and this paper is about computing authoring test from competency questions and the validation of how we do that. Bit of basic information about competency questions constructing ontologies is difficult for beginners to do because they're quite difficult concepts to start with. So users and developers frequently fail to comprehend important implication of the information contained in ontology and also the implications that happen when ontologies are changed. These challenges have led to the notion of competency questions, which is simply a question that are finished. Ontology should be able to answer, for example, a competency question for. We recruited them through crowdsourcing on Mechanical Turk. Then the DL version was run with 15 participants through a reasoning web summer school in Aberdeen and this had beginner and intermediate DL practitioners. And that was at CCKS 2016 in China and this one was also formed. Drink should occur in the ontology. Relation satisfiability, so it must be possible for a coffee drink to contain caffeine is an example of one of those, and then the complement of relations satisfiability. It must be, and there's one there which says it must be possible for a coffee drink to not contain tea leaves. The majority of participants agreed with all the authoring tests that were generated and therefore hypothesis for wasn't supported. We're actually marked as non relevant by the participants. There's no support for the third hypothesis. What we really found from this we found that occurrence authoring tests are almost universally agreed with. And we found broad agreement that the key concept involved in this election question must be satisfy aghbal. Tried to investigate why this might be so we did some post hoc testing which is detailed in the paper but where we looked at the more proficient DL practitioners to see if that would make an effect to bring those compliment ones, but back into relevance. We know that our mapping from constant questions to authoring test is on the right track, but we need to do further experimentation to find out why it is that experience. Recently, a number of authors have proposed that these competency questions because they're useful and they give a measure of when and ontologies complete that they should be integrated in part into part of the authoring interfaces for creating ontologies. One approach which has been used before by researchers in our research group, particularly tile proposed the competency equation, that competency, question driven, ontology authoring approach, which proposes an authoring interface which can checks continually during authoring which of those CQS are able to be answered by an ontology. Our research project draws on a key concept in linguistics, which is a presupposition. So, for example, if you say, what is the price of cutlery in when asked in a restaurant, you you presuppose that cutlery is for sale in the restaurant, and if it's not, the question can't be answered. So if we ask ourselves the question which pizzas contain chocolate, the positive presupposition is that a pizza can contain chocolate. In previous work runner style map, the types of constancy question authors tend to ask and defined different archetypes for them, and then they detail how these authoring tests can be derived for each of these different types of archetypes of competency questions. And is this in accordance with the general understanding of users and people who create ontologies? One was with the lay audience using an English representation of an ontology, competency questions and authoring tests, and then the other experimental design used a formal DL syntax for the same ontology, and that one was run with people who are already learning how learning description logic and. So we came up with a little scenario and this this went on crowdsourcing, which I'll describe later, but we came up with a scenario where we said that cost a box is a hot drinks company and that they are creating a robot that can answer questions from customers about the hot drinks that they sell. And then we told them the robot, the robot programmers have to tell the robot some facts about the hot drinks so that it understands enough to answer the questions. Rules about the world and once all of the customer questions can be answered by the robot, it's knowledge from the coffee menu is considered complete and it can be used in the shop.