Nevertheless, we should go on and I would like to announce the next lecture on passive treatment in my mind remediation which is going to be presented by. Well, there's the water surface you saw in the last picture. Underneath you have your organic matter and a limestone mix, which is your substrate, and then underneath that some drainage to take the water back up to the discharge. Having done a lot of research, they've discovered that really only less than 1% of the bugs actually contributed to what's happening here. How big do you build it that there is governed by the concentration of the metals that you have there, and what the flow rate is obviously. Lab tests, then scaling up bench pilot scale and then going to full scale test. These proof of principle tests. It's not a black box if it's not a black box. What is it? This examples of pilot scale cells that we've set up around the US, this one here in Brazil, but some of them are very, very simple. These are the two anaerobic cells that were set up, and then there's a polishing pond over here aerobic cell. West Fork River As I said, the settling pond was very big. This is Judy 14 in Pennsylvania. It was a coal mine. Is the worst acid mine drainage in Pennsylvania? Out there, but a background to the site was mined in the 1970s that's now abandoned. They put in a fly ash grout in the hope that that would solve all their problems, but it wasn't enough and there was 8 kilometres of track fishery affected by the flow that came out of these workings. Of 2008, the full scale is on hold, but they are planning on going ahead with such in the not too distant. : schema and this is the last example that I'm going to show you, and the only reason I'm trying to do is because it's an extremely remote location. Last option, typical wetland would look like this an anaerobic zone at the bottom anaerobic zone at the top. Anaerobic conduct Arabic on down at the bottom, so why don't they always work then? A lot of people think that low maintenance means no maintenance, not true. Advantages well, I mean, there's plenty of them here, but I guess the big one to take another trip is the fact that it's simple to operate. It's also can handle acidic water just as easily as it can handle alkaline water, and usually it will generate a lot more alkalinity in what's coming out than what it had before it started. And as Jim says, if you're not part of the solution, you're part of the precipitate. Now the different removal mechanisms that occur. These ones at the bottom here absorbent, organic and oxide materials and metal uptake into plant tissues. This is an anaerobic bioreactor or two of them that we've designed there, also known as vertical flow bioreactors or sulfate reducing bioreactors.