[0.0s - 29.0s]
Nevertheless, we should go on and I would like to announce the next lecture on passive treatment in my mind remediation which is going to be presented by. This presentation that I'm going to give you. Is presentation that was put together by Jim Grossich who is in our office in Denver and Colorado. He does a lot of passive mine water treatment work. Colorado is too far for him to come today, so I'm here for him. And if you have questions I will try to answer them, but if I can't, Jim's email address is at the end and you can email.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
To ask him yourself.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
What is passive treatment? It's not a black box if it's not a black box. What is it? It's a sequential ecological extraction. Sequential because there is no one silver magic bullet that you can use to treat all waters. Depending on the geochemistry of the water, there would be a sequence of different cells designed to take out different elements. It's ecological because there are plants and microbes involved, an it's an extraction process because we want to. Filter out the metals or extracting metals out of the water.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And it's usually in a man made system, and ideally it should involve. Something that will last for a long time without very much human intervention. So that there's very low maintenance on it and it would be relatively low.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Last option, typical wetland would look like this an anaerobic zone at the bottom anaerobic zone at the top. The anaerobic zone would be underwater most of the time, and all your processes would effectively take place in oneself. The problem with the typical wetland is that you have fluctuating water levels and therefore some metals that would have been precipitated out, then will redissolve and come back into solution later.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
The problem with this is that this is what it ends up looking like, where there's an awful lot of competition between the different processes that occur, and it's ultimately not very.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Active. So what you really want is a constructed wetland where you have a number of different cells and a separate process operating in each cell.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
All in sequence. Now the different removal mechanisms that occur. The two at the top here are really the most important because they involve microbes and they involve plants and they really are the major removal mechanisms that occur in an effective waiting system. These ones at the bottom here absorbent, organic and oxide materials and metal uptake into plant tissues. These tend to tend to be temporary processes and therefore wouldn't play a very significant role in terms of how effective your waiting system is going to be. We're going to spend quite a bit of time looking at the sulfide and carbonate principle.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Patient through sulfate reducing bacteria this year would be a fairly standard flow chart that some of you have probably already seen, which really gives you some sort of indication of how you would treat mine water. Some water would be good and would be fairly simple treatment process. Bad water, it would be a lot more complex, but either of these wherever there's heavy metals involved, you need a biochemical reactor and I'll spend a bit of time now talking about the biochemical reactor, 'cause that's really the workhorse of of how these rating system.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Operator. This is an anaerobic bioreactor or two of them that we've designed there, also known as vertical flow bioreactors or sulfate reducing bioreactors. They look like standard issue common little puns with the liner on them. The way they work is that aluminium and heavy metals are removed, pH can be adjusted and then alkalinity and hardness would be contributed into the.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So what does it really look like under the water? Well, there's the water surface you saw in the last picture. Underneath you have your organic matter and a limestone mix, which is your substrate, and then underneath that some drainage to take the water back up to the discharge. This here is a is a downflow system. We have also designed upflow systems, but they wouldn't be as effective for aggressive mine waters of.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Prosystem this is how you constructed. Effectively you just get a bulldozer into pushing your mix substrate, which would be some sort of organic matter. Will talk during the case studies on what types of organic matter you could use, but they would be mixed in then with crushed limestone, which would provide a certain amount of buffer capacity and neutralization potential. And then as I said before, there's a plastic liner and really the only requirement here is to make sure you don't don't tear the plastic liner when you're putting in there.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Substrate in terms of the chemistry that's involved, these two reactions. Here are the main reactions that would occur effectively. What you're doing is reducing the sulfate using microbes and producing then hydrogen sulfide, which then precipitates along with metals into some sort of a metal sulfide. Taking those metals. Then out of solution, if you have high iron inside the water like you would have here, then these two reactions here would play a significant role, and in fact these two. Would probably operate in the in the upper section of your flow through cell, whereas these other reactions then would occur further down in the flow.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Self. Very often when you put the pH up in a system, the aluminium will precipitate out as a hydroxide, something that gives out. The problem with this is that it forms a sludge which builds up and plugged the wetland, which makes it very ineffective. What we try to do in the winters that we design is that we try to ensure that you precipitate an aluminium hydroxy sulfate. This is a much more dense mineral rather than the straight gibbsite or aluminium hydroxide, so you have something like every night or something like a trigger precipitating out, and because it's so much more dense, it doesn't clog up the self.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Inside these systems, when we first started all of this work, when jump first started, all of this work, they thought that the bugs were the the engine inside these and everything was dependent on the bugs. Having done a lot of research, they've discovered that really only less than 1% of the bugs actually contributed to what's happening here. The whole process of converting sulfate 200 and sulfide. Is controlled a lot by the city lytic bacteria fermenters and methanogens.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So where do we get to the lytic bacteria? Well, plenty of these around that used to use horses a lot as well. Grazers, we've since discovered that browsing animals are fairly good contributors as well. Goats and even mules or donkeys are quite used.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So in terms of designing the system well, there's no standard cookbook. One process fits all type of passive mine water treatment system. The chemistry will control which cells you put in and what sequence you put them in, and then the dimensions of the actual sell themselves. How big do you build it that there is governed by the concentration of the metals that you have there, and what the flow rate is obviously. There's a certain kind of retention time that you need to have in these systems to be able to to get the metals artifact.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Ugly. We use a stage design process. Lab tests, then scaling up bench pilot scale and then going to full scale test.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
These proof of principle tests. They usually last about 8 weeks. Alot of our clients don't ask for them anymore. They were originally kind of designed to work on a recipe on what to to try and use in the in the pilot scale cells that we were setting up germs being involved in over 30 different types of treatment systems. So he's got a fairly good idea. Now what works and what doesn't so.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Often we can bypass this stage when we go straight into the bench scale where we would set up a few cells after onsite wherever the mine is and take samples of that. That usually lasts about 12 or 16 weeks. Take weekly samples off there to see how things are improving and which combination that we might have selected in the different cells is the most effective too.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Actually go to full scale. Part of the bench scale is that we can actually take biopsies. Once we've run the range scope for 16 weeks, we can actually take samples out of the cells to see if there's any plugging or any problems with them. This particular one here, we were concerned that there might be aluminium plugging problem in it. The water that went into that style had 250 milligrams per liter aluminium in it. And it ran for five months, and after five months there was absolutely no element in plugging at all, seen when they did the biopsy. So they're very happy with.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
This examples of pilot scale cells that we've set up around the US, this one here in Brazil, but some of them are very, very simple. This one here in Wyoming was actually that's actually a plastic swimming pool that was bought in Sears in a Department store in the US of cost $600 to build, and it ran for I think you said 27 months until it was intentionally decommissioned. They had no issues with it. It was very effective. And very low cost scale test.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So some case studies then that Jim has been.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Involved in will go through 4 here West Fork in Missouri, which is a very big one. Judy 14 and Fran. Mind those are from coal measures in Pennsylvania and then the Galinski mine in California, which is very interesting because it's an extremely remote site.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
West Fork in Missouri. This is built on the side of amount and I'll show you a layout plan in a managed but effectively just to give you a field. There's the setting pond I'm going to talk about. These are the two anaerobic cells that were set up, and then there's a polishing pond over here aerobic cell.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
This is the layout. There's the mineshaft. There the water came out. It went through settling Pond first to get a lot of the settlement out of it. Then there were two anaerobic cells set up. Then the rock filter was also anaerobic and then only after they've been through the rock filter was the water aerated and the pH brought back up then too. Put this into the.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
West Fork River As I said, the settling pond was very big. 3000 square meters. The two anaerobic cells, 2000 square meters each. The ponds were quite deep 2 meters and they used a 40 millimeter HDPE liner. In terms of the substrates, there was sawdust and limestone used, and then some manure and some hay as well. And then of course the end cost of it, which obviously most people would be most interested in, would be 700,000 US dollars to to set that up and its operation.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And very very effective. These are the results of some of the water that was going through it. There was no problem with the pH initially laid was the main concern and you can see a very very big improvement in the lead concentrations here. Zinc was also something that they were worried might be a problem. They found that it came out below detection limits. And I'm not a huge improvement in sulfate, but so it wasn't really an issue to start with anyway. That client is running 4 1/2 cubic meters per minute, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and has been running since 1996 without any prob.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
This is Judy 14 in Pennsylvania. It was a coal mine. This is a demo scale.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Plant that has been set up there. They had massive problems here with the steps you know because of clogging with elevated aluminium concentrations, so they wanted to see what would happen and we went to pilot system there.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
For nine and a half liters per minute, much smaller system than what you saw before any 1300 square meters. The clay liner on this one rather than the usual HGP liner that a lot of people would prefer to use and just see woodchips again manure and hay and some limestone built into it. Much cheaper, obviously because it was a lot smaller. 158 thousand euros.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
The concentrations that came out of that aluminium significantly reduced iron down quite a lot as well. You see the pH has gone up to near neutral, and copper was also something that they were concerned might be an issue, but there was no problems there. Nickel and zinc as well considered to be in high concentrations for coal mine waters, but not an issue once they've been through the plant. This plant is taking 38 liters per minute was constructed.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Late 2002. And. They are looking now at scaling it up, friend Mindsight. This is also in Pennsylvania. Is the worst acid mine drainage in Pennsylvania? Supposedly there was a craft hatchery that was very badly affected. These guys here are not actually looking at us of mine drainage, they're looking for rattlesnakes. Because this is very, very big rattlesnake country, so you need to be paying attention when you.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Out there, but a background to the site was mined in the 1970s that's now abandoned. They put in a fly ash grout in the hope that that would solve all their problems, but it wasn't enough and there was 8 kilometres of track fishery affected by the flow that came out of these workings. So they set up a bench scale bioreactor. It was quite successful. There were no problem plugging problems again from the aluminium to very similar to the previous one that we had to look at and. They are now looking to get government.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Munsan to upgrade this to a bigger system. And this is what it would be. A meter deep, but only 404 square meter area. So much much smaller compared to what you've looked at before. Again, wood chips, limestone, manure and hay and total cost share of only 42,000 plus another 20,000 euros for the engineering costs.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
This is when they were setting it up. You can see them putting in the hay and everything into the into the.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
What they did here they were concerned about vandalism, so they actually buried it. The bioreactor is actually in that area there so it's all covered over and because of experience that we've had with this gym has gone on and he's put weapons into underground workings, which has been very effective in areas where they don't have a lot of surface area on site to put a wetland system outside the discharge point you can put it inside the entrance to the line.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So some of the results that we got off that you see quite a big improvement in pH and similarly fairly significant improvement in acidity. That was quite unexpected. Software concentration done a huge amount and aluminium significantly improved as well. Apart from you know the others manganese. There wasn't much of a change there. I am done quite a lot, although still slightly elevated, but really the design is complete and. Of 2008, the full scale is on hold, but they are planning on going ahead with such in the not too distant.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Teacher. : schema and this is the last example that I'm going to show you, and the only reason I'm trying to do is because it's an extremely remote location. Up here. Everything had to be got up there on a raft. There is no access by Rd onto the.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Right, so everything that was set up for first the bench scale test and then the pilot scale test and then full scale has been taken up there on a raft up the River.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Again, very small bottom area, only 95 square meters this time, and they used a permainan liner. And just talking to see some sort of similarities. Yeah, limestone in all of them. This one here is Cogen Feulner cogent fuel. For those of you who don't know is a mixture of wood chips and pistachio nut shells, and I think there's Walnut shells in it as well. So pretty much anything that's available in the local area. They will investigate and see if they can use that as a feed source for it. There's also rice holes in this one, and then when you're in high again that you've seen before. So even though this one here was quite small, it was quite expensive to do because of its.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
What location? This is where it is all the way up this River, and it's built up on the side of the Hill here. That's the pilot plant and you can see very very good improvements in copper concentration, which was the biggest worry when they started off, but great improvements in a lot of the other parameters that are there. Zinc down from 55 to .1, nickel, cadmium sulfide, or significantly improved as well, so that's been running for 27 months now.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
And everybody seems to be happy with that very small buildup of precipitate there in the in the sitting part down in the.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Anaerobic conduct Arabic on down at the bottom, so why don't they always work then? Well, sometimes oppressive treatment systems aren't designed at all. They're just kind of thrown together. Or they use whatever wakeland happens to be outside the door of the mine and hope like hell that it works. Sometimes they're not properly designed properly. There might be undersized you heard earlier, but we were talking earlier about what happens if you don't actually understand the hydrogeology and how much trouble you can get into if you don't actually know how much water. Dealing with. Not enough maintenance. A lot of people think that low maintenance means no maintenance, not true. Even pacifying water treatment systems need to be looked at from time to time to make sure that things are ticking along, especially because as I mentioned earlier, even after the mind is closed and people are garden, the chemistry is still changing and then also there might be last minute changes. Very often you suddenly realize that you don't have the money you thought you had or the mind decides that they're kind of few corners here on there, and hopefully nobody will be any. The wiser usually backfires on 4.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Gently. Advantages well, I mean, there's plenty of them here, but I guess the big one to take another trip is the fact that it's simple to operate. You don't need to be a rocket scientist once it's set up. It's like watching paint dry. It just takes along on its own and just need to to keep an eye on it. It's also can handle acidic water just as easily as it can handle alkaline water, and usually it will generate a lot more alkalinity in what's coming out than what it had before it started.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
So that's pretty much it. And as Jim says, if you're not part of the solution, you're part of the precipitate. So hope you got something out of that. As I said, if you have any questions I can try to answer them for you. Otherwise Germans always more than happy to hear from folks. Thank you.
