The user on observable, and we're interested in two things. Why we call this a time series natural experiment? Structural causality is a particular property of this. T -- 1 for some subset of those wise does not directly structurally cause the response of interest. For the natural experiment case, it's analogous, except now we've got these variables DT. So if this is a function constant in this subset of the DS for all admissible values of the other argument, then we say that DT doesn't directly cause why. The history of does not directly cause YT with probability one with respect to this conditioning information set and. D doesn't Granger cause Y with respect to X if and only if D does not structurally cause Y with respect to that. This all essentially permits testing conditional mean independence, but Granger causality, in its general form, is one of full conditional independence between these variables. Suppose that Y 2 does not cause structurally cause Y. When conditional exogeneity fails, then Granger causality fails. Leads to an indirect test for structural causality. If either a Granger causality test rejects and the conditional exception, a test fails to reject. War the conditional exogeneity test rejects and a Granger causality test fails to reject in either one of those circumstances. In the paper we have applications to crude oil pricing and gasoline pricing. Sorry monetary policy and industrial production and economic announcements and stock returns don't have time to go through all of these, but I thought I might show you the analysis of. Anomic announcements and stock returns that we've done so here we've got these economic announcements a the expected announcements are a superscript E. We're going to decompose the announcement change into two pieces, one the expected change, which is what happened before and. Analysts expectations and then the rest is just going to be news. real GDP core CPI. These WS these or other drivers of the DTS. Those are so these variables represent macro fundamentals and the X is that we use our diseases. We're going to test retrospective conditional exogeneity by testing this using those tests. Is that I just showed you and the results are that we fail to reject Granger non causality no matter how we choose the leg and lead structure, we fail to reject conditional exogeneity. Similarly, and what this suggests is that there are no structural effects of expected macroeconomic announcements on stock returns. The paper gives explicit guidance about how to choose these supplemental variables so that Granger causality can give structural insight. And we also have new tests of Granger non causality, conditional exogeneity and structural non causality. Objective today is to relate notions of Granger causality to a notion of structural causality. Natural experiments will also talk about how Granger causality relates to structural vector autoregression's. We can talk about conditional access. If this conditional independence holds, then Q does not cause Y with respect S, otherwise it does, and it's simply a statement about predictability.