[0.0s - 29.0s]
Well, it's a pleasure to be here today to pay tribute to Clive and also to. Be speaking in a context that Clive I think would be quite gratified by and also surprised because I don't think in his life Clive ever expected that Granger causality would necessarily be used to study neural information processing. But as I hope we'll see today, it is indeed quite relevant before I start talking about some of the connections between Granger causality. And dynamic structural system.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I'd like to say a few words about Clive. Clive Granger was my friend, my colleague, my coauthor, and he was my mentor. My life has been immeasurably enriched by the opportunity to have known and worked with Clive for over 30 years, although my memory is a bit hazy, I suspect I first became aware of Clive and his work when I was a graduate student, taking Robert Angles, Time series econometrics class at MIT in 1975. And it was Rob who later shared the Nobel Prize in Economics with Clive in 2003. Now by 1978 I was sufficiently enlightened to be somewhat in awe when I first encountered Clive at the Summer Econometric Society meetings in Boulder, Co. And there he generously invited me just an unknown assistant professor to go on a hike in the nearby Rocky Mountains with the group that he was organized and what could be better an opportunity. To play hooky from some of the more boring conference sessions at the behest of one of the leading figures in the profession. Going hiking, which is something we both enjoyed very much. I don't recall what we spoke about that day, but I do remember being enthralled by clients, open friendliness and later that.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
We're going to begin a visiting appointment at UC San Diego. I began to know Clive as a colleague and it quickly became clear that one of his most impressive traits was his warm and enthusiastic involvement with an encouragement of students and colleagues, especially junior colleagues in visitors. Clive always had time to listen to, discuss, and offer his penetrating ideas and insights. To put it simply, Clive Granger was one of the most outstanding human beings I've ever had the pleasure to know. He had a profound and permanent impact on time series econometrics. This is him giving his note.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
No prize lecture. He was cheerful, brilliant, generous and kind and despite his Nobel Prize. His knighthood and his innumerable other honors that so deservedly came his way. He remained the approachable, easygoing, good humor gentleman that he had always been, never losing that somehow mischievous sparkle of his. We all miss him keenly. So Clive, I hope you're here in Spirit today seeing how your work has blossomed and spread far beyond what you might originally have contemplate.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Objective today is to relate notions of Granger causality to a notion of structural causality. The founding paper in this area is that of Granger 1969, later expanded on and the book that he was holding. In that second picture I showed that's the Grange renewable Book of 1986. And I want to be clear that Clive in that first article and often in his subsequent conversations, always made it clear that whatever Granger causality was, it wasn't true causality, whatever that might be. But many people have long suspected that there are links, and what I want to talk about is a link between particular notions of structural causality and Granger causality. The structural causality that I'm going to be talking about is structural causality that I analyzed in a paper in 2008. With my colleague polling Kennedy and which is also been formalized in a paper by my self and my colleague Kareem Chilac, a paper that appeared just this last August in the Journal Machine Learning Research called Settable Systems and extension of the Pearl causal model with optimization equilibrium and learn.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Ming. So I'm going to talk about Granger causality. What that is, I'm going to define a dynamic data generating process. It's applicable to time series talk about what structural causality means in that context, will talk about how Granger causality relates to time series. Natural experiments will also talk about how Granger causality relates to structural vector autoregression's. There's a useful and important distinction between those we're going to talk about testing finite order Granger causality. We can talk about conditional access. Natty will talk about how to combine tests for Granger causality and conditional exogeneity to perform inference about structural causality. I'll talk about some applications, one in particular to the stock market, and then sum up.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Granger causality when we talk about it, we need a little bit of notation. A scrub subscript is a random variable. Index is a random variable measured at time. TA superscript is going to note the history from Time Zero to time T of particular indicator. Random variable Definition 2.1 is the definition of Granger causality that we're going to use here. So we've got random variables. Q Those are potential Granger causes random variables. Yes, those are supplemental variables that we may be conditioning on as well as. Past values of the response of interest, which is why these are any random vectors. They have no necessary structural relation to one another, and we're going to relate them with this conditional independent statement. So this statement here, if I can get a cursor. There this is saying that YT is independent of the history of Q given the past history of the wise and the supplemental variables S. Granger's initial definition wouldn't strictly have required a T -- 1 here, so we strictly had the past and a T -- 1 here, so we strictly had the past, but I I think it's important to have the additional flexibility by permitting things that are measured in time T, but that who's realizations proceed YT so we don't have instantaneous relationships here. There is a ordering in time, but the realizations may be observed within the time period and so. They properly have this time index T here both here and here. If this conditional independence holds, then Q does not cause Y with respect S, otherwise it does, and it's simply a statement about predictability. In this context, there's no structural content. In fact at all, and any attempts to draw structural inference from Granger causality alone are going to be. Dangerous because there could be other things going on.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
To talk about specifically what those are now, here's the structural data generating process and the thing I want to focus on 1st down here is this is the structural relationship that relates the response of interest Y to its past history to some causes of interest, DT to some other causes whose effects are not of interest but which are nevertheless driving why, and to some unobservables. There is a hierarchy here. This is a cascade or a recursive or triangular or a cyclical system, in which why is driven by all of these things. This arrow means that these things may be potential drivers of Y, but that why cannot drive anything in that direction. Same thing for DD is potentially driven by all of these objects, but cannot drive anything in the opposite direction, so this is the relationship. That we're interested in. We're going to be interested in the potential of white, white lagged to influence Y or these dyst influence why? But we also have to account for the fact that there are these other causes which we may observe Z as well as other unobserved causes which we don't observe.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Oh, and I also want to mention why is a vector, so this could be a whole ensemble of readings in the brain if you like or a whole bunch of different variables in the economy that we're observing. So this is the structural relation. It involves whatever the true underlying mechanism is that's generating our data. These objects are observable. The user on observable, and we're interested in two things. One the possible effects of the history of D on the response of interest. Why we call this a time series natural experiment? And I'll differentiate it further in a moment. And we're also going to partition Y into two components Y1 and Y2, and will be interested in the effects of some of the wise on otherwise. So in the economics world, this might be the effects of the Fed monetary policy on the real economy or interest rates. Both of these are places where Granger causality applies, and it's important to differentiate between the two of them now.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Structural causality is a particular property of this. Structural relationship so we're going to say that why? T -- 1 for some subset of those wise does not directly structurally cause the response of interest. If this function is essentially constant as a function of those particular variables. For all other admissible variables of the argument of the response function, so. This is not a particularly deep property, is just saying that this is a constant function, but it does accord well with intuitive ideas of what structural causality can be an. It also turns out to relate directly to Granger causality if there are some invisible values for which this function is not constant as a function of the identified subset of the past wise, then we say that Y T -- 1 for that subset does structurally cause the response of interest. This is the structural. Vector autoregression?

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Of case. For the natural experiment case, it's analogous, except now we've got these variables DT. So if this is a function constant in this subset of the DS for all admissible values of the other argument, then we say that DT doesn't directly cause why. Otherwise it does. So that's the notion of structural causality, and this is a notion of direct causality because we're not taking into account any of the indirect effects that might propagate through the past values of Y in this system.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Now we can get a notion of total causality, which takes account of both the direct and the indirect effects by recursive substitution. If we recursively substitute the cuties in their past. Values through here. Then we eventually get to a relationship that looks like this. Where we've substituted out all of the lag wise, and now we're looking at something which measures the direct effect of the time path of DT on Y, and we can talk about total causality relevant for the time series Natural experiment case in which we just say that this response function is constant as a function of that history of these potential causes, DT.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
How do?

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Granger causality relate to. These notions of causality. Well, let me now define some variables X and this is going to be these variables W which don't drive Y but our predecessors of Y and also D and these these, which are other drivers of Y and I'm going to impose an important condition here, this is. And exogeneity condition. If I didn't have this conditioning here, this would just be what's called strict exogeneity in the econometrics literature, and that is that the drivers of richest are independent of the unobservable drivers of the response. And now we're conditioning on the past values of the wise, and this history of the X is if this condition holds, and we have that structure that we've already posited, then if DT doesn't directly cause YT. Then it's the case that Granger non causality also holds. So structural non causality implies Granger non causality.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Natural question is does it work in the other direction? Is there and if and only if statement possible and the answer strictly speaking is no and the reason is because there could be causal relationships that can only be revealed if the variables happen to enter certain parts of their domain that don't get observed in the data that you happen to have. So this condition here Ascentia Lee recognizes the fact that it's possible for. Structural causality to hold in just the right way so that it could never be empirically detected. So what you see here is a function which depends in principle. On D, this is the structural relation. But when you integrate it out against the joint distribution of the wise and these covariates X you get something which doesn't depend apondi, so this is a condition that I will say we have DT. The history of does not directly cause YT with probability one with respect to this conditioning information set and. If that holds, sorry if that doesn't hold, then we have DT directly causing Y with positive positive probability with respect to.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
That information sent. That's the key condition, which is going to permit us to characterize Granger causality and structural causality. So if we have this time series structure and we have conditional exogeneity, which by the way is the analogue of the condition that ensures the Unconfounded Ness of affects in the treatment effect literature, then D not being a direct cause with respect to this information. Set of Y in the structural sense that I've just defined that is equivalent to D, not Granger causing Y with respect to X. So if you find that you've got Granger causality, then either you have direct causality in this sense, or you may need to investigate what's happening with these other assumptions. But if there are maintained, then direct structural causality with probability one is equivalent to Granger causality. You can draw structural.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Differences with Granger causality. Now. That notion that I just gave you involves the entire time history of some potential causes, and that might be more than people can deal with in actual datasets. So what almost everybody does in practice is to work with a finite history. So now bold. Why is going to be some finite history of past wise? Both Q is going to be some past history of queues, and we're now back to the generic case where there's no necessary structure. And we're going to define what it means for this history. Finite history of Q2 not finite order. Granger cause Y with respect to these supplemental variables. Else that's this conditional independence before what we had was the entire history of Q. Now we have a finite sub history. Same thing with Y here. So if that conditional independence does not hold, then we have that Q Granger causes Y in a finite order sense.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
We could relate that to structural causality in the following way. Let D bol D be a finite history that these bold zibia finite history disease hold X. We have finite history. The exits in one interesting thing about this is that I have not only passed values of X is here Tau one back to Tau. One periods in the past, but also have future values of X is here. This is something that Granger was very uncomfortable about, including. Future values in the discussion of Granger causality. But as it turns out, these are conditioning variables that only playing a predictive role. They're only helping to ensure this conditional exogeneity here, and so it doesn't violate the causal direction of time to have these future conditioning variables in the conditioning set. So here now is a Markov type structure where, why depends upon a finite number of its own legs and a finite number of present, or I should say, contemporaneous. Past values of its other drivers and if we have this conditional exogeneity now holding the causes of interest, are independent of the unobservable causes given the finite histories of Y. And these X is, then we have. Structure to characterize Granger causality in terms of structural causality. Again, we have a definition which has to account for the fact that there could be samples in which you never see the variables entered. The domains that would reveal the extant structural causality. So that's essentially this condition here. And whenever this whole.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Holds we say that D does not directly cause Y with probability one with respect to this information set. Otherwise it does so. This is the corresponding notion of structural causality to.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Ranger causality, and here's the theorem that characterizes the relation between Granger causality and this notion of structural causality. If these, if this structure holds, that's Markov structure, and this conditional exogeneity hold then. D doesn't Granger cause Y with respect to X if and only if D does not structurally cause Y with respect to that.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Formation set.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Now. Similar statements are possible to make for structural via Rs. Here D is no longer relevant. Now we're just interested in how why depends upon its own past values, so we're going to split Y into Y1 and Y2 and ask whether one set of the wise say why two is structurally driving another part, why?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
I want. Again, just some notation bold wise and season X is are finite histories. We're permitting future values of these axes. Here's our structural relation, which Maps out whatever the true underlying mechanism is. That's relating the wise to its drivers. Here is the conditional exogeneity relationship which must hold in order for the effects of interest, that is, the effects of Y2 on Y1 to not be confounded with.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Are affects and here is the notion of structural causality, which takes account of the fact that there are these instances where structural causality can occur, but never be revealed in the sample. So this is going to be the notion of structural causality that one can equate to Granger causality. The quick.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
One's theorem here is if we have this structural relations this conditional exogeneity, then, why 2 does not finite order, Granger, cause why one with respect to X if and only if it does not structurally cause why one with in that precise?

[754.0s - 783.0s]
That's how.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Right, we go about validating or testing this well ascentia Lee. What we're after is a condition of this sort an I've simplified to the simplest possible case where we don't have any legs just to keep the notation simple. Here's how people have been doing Granger causality testing and economics for a long time. You take why you're aggressive on its flag. Regressive on the possible Granger cause and these other supplemental variables. And you test whether beta nought is 0 or not, and if it's if you can't reject zero, then you can't reject Granger causality. That has some limitations in in. Some circumstances you might miss important features of the data by doing that, so a little bit more sophisticated thing to do would be a neural network type regression where you add some further hidden layer terms here. This permits the regression to be more flexible and now you can test whether or not beta nod is 0 here, possibly detecting more than you would otherwise if you left out these terms, because this permits you to capture some nonlinearities. This all essentially permits testing conditional mean independence, but Granger causality, in its general form, is one of full conditional independence between these variables. So in order to test for possible kinds of dependence that you might miss, just testing conditional mean independence, you can transform the wise and then run a regression like this. But again, all you're doing is just a form of linear regression, so it can be quite straightforward. Also, this pay attention here. This is going to be also the form that we're going to use to test for conditional exogeneity later swapping wise for some other variables instead.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Now, what is conditional exogeneity? That was the condition that went along with the structural causality that made it possible to get a characterization of Granger causality. And so the question is, can we get rid of conditional exogeneity? Is it a crucial condition or not? The answer is it's.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Crucial condition so. The way to see that is the following. Suppose that Y 2 does not cause structurally cause Y. One well, if conditional exogeneity doesn't hold, then there is always some data generating structure that will violate conditional. Sorry, that will violate Granger causality. So even when structural causality doesn't hold, you can be misled. By a finding of Granger causality and the reason is that the data generating structure is violating conditional exogeneity. In fact, you can make a stronger statement if this relationship is invertible between the wise and the use, which is the common assumption when we assume that the use are separable from the observable drivers in their influence on why, then we get essentially. When conditional exogeneity fails, then Granger causality fails. So, in the absence of structural causality, Granger non causality and conditional exogeneity are equivalent. So we have two kinds of equivalence here, depending upon whether we assume. Conditional exogeneity, then, we get structural causality equivalent to Granger causality. Or, if we assume the absence of structural causality, then Granger causality Granger non causality is equivale.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
To conditional excites unity. This shows that it is possible to get an implication that we can use to test conditional exogeneity, because if conditional exception 80 holds and we have this particular kind of separable structure between the observable drivers and the unobservable drivers, then the residuals from the regression. Sorry, here is the Y. Here's the regression of Y on its past values. Then these residuals are independent of the White Ouse, giving this. So we have an implication of conditional oxygenate that we can use to test this.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Leads to an indirect test for structural causality. If we're not willing to maintain either conditional exogeneity or Granger non causality. The rule is then to reject structural non causality. That is to accept that there is some structural causation network. If either a Granger causality test rejects and the conditional exception, a test fails to reject. War the conditional exogeneity test rejects and a Granger causality test fails to reject in either one of those circumstances. The only conclusion is that you must have had some kind of structural causality. Now, what happens otherwise? Well, if both conditional exogeneity and Granger non causality failed to reject, there's no structural causality. There's one more circumstance that has to be considered though, and that is what happens if you reject conditional exogeneity, and Granger non causality. Well, that is logically inconsistent. It means that there must be something else going on. So you can't make a decision about structural causality or non causality if you make a decision. Either way, you're going to make a Type 1 error or a type 2 error. So basically this is the signal that you need to go back to the drawing board. There's something incorrect about your setup, and one of the possible things there is that you don't have sufficient covariates to achieve conditional exogeneity.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
In the paper we have applications to crude oil pricing and gasoline pricing. Monetary pricing. Sorry monetary policy and industrial production and economic announcements and stock returns don't have time to go through all of these, but I thought I might show you the analysis of.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Anomic announcements and stock returns that we've done so here we've got these economic announcements a the expected announcements are a superscript E. We're going to decompose the announcement change into two pieces, one the expected change, which is what happened before and. Analysts expectations and then the rest is just going to be news. We've got eight major macro announcements. real GDP core CPI. You can read the rest of them. Unemployment has been one of the things that's really been bouncing the stock market around recently and then we get the expectation from the money Market service survey.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Later, the wise are the value weighted Stock Exchange daily returns and then we've got some of these covariates. These WS these or other drivers of the DTS. These are the expected announcement you can read with. Those are so these variables represent macro fundamentals and the X is that we use our diseases.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
WS. We're going to test retrospective conditional exogeneity by testing this using those tests. But with that I showed you before with epsilon in the role of Y. Here's how is epsilon defined, and we're going to test finite order retrospective gene on causality by testing this using those proceeds.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Is that I just showed you and the results are that we fail to reject Granger non causality no matter how we choose the leg and lead structure, we fail to reject conditional exogeneity. Similarly, and what this suggests is that there are no structural effects of expected macroeconomic announcements on stock returns. Now this is what economists would believe if they believe in weak market efficiency. All of the expected information should already be translated. Into the market price is surprisingly, perhaps not so in retrospect. Some people have found that expected effects do have an impact, but once you properly adjust for the fact that it could be conditional failure condition lakeside genetti and do this properly, you find no impact and we also did this with non retrospective tests and we found an identical pattern. So economic announcements do not, as far as we can tell, structurally drive stock.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Returns, so let me sum up and conclude in this paper. We're linking Granger non causality with structural non causality. We have a characterization. This provides the missing link if you want to draw structural conclusions about a particular relationship, you can do that with Granger causality provided that you have reason to believe conditional exogeneity holds. We also show that Granger non causality is equivalent to conditional exogeneity in the absence of structural causality. So if you see Granger non causality, that could. If you see Granger causality that could be due to the failure of conditional exogeneity even in the absence of structural causality. The paper gives explicit guidance about how to choose these supplemental variables so that Granger causality can give structural insight. And we also have new tests of Granger non causality, conditional exogeneity and structural non causality. And I will stop there. Do we have time for questions?

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Explain how you dealt with the multiple offices testing at any sort of correct. Yes, that's a great question. The question is, how do we deal with multiple hypothesis testing? And in the paper what we're able to do is to get bounds on the size and power of these different procedures using the size and power of the individual procedures and it required some fancy footwork and I'll give my coauthor credit on that. And if you send me an email, I'd be happy to send you a current copy of the paper if it's not available on the website. I'm very happy with that part of the paper. It's a tricky problem and we think we have a nice solution that might be applicable in other contexts as well. Thank you.
