The main idea is probably convolutional neural networks, which are currently the most successful approach. So for example, an example fracture detection with deep neural networks, so this is for example, one application which was very successful. For example on this image even the, let's say the orthopedist health problems to see the fracture. In computer vision, the trends, if I mentioned them, lots of applications, lots of new things in pattern recognition combined with machine learning in robotics, in video analysis and also in combining images and text so deep neural networks have this capability that they project image ingane text into the same, let's say space and then actually image in context becomes the same. Another area where deep learning is really successful would be sequences. So speech text text is also sequence right? So and the ideas which are here, let's say wake two XI recurrent neural networks and Transformers network recently with the attention mechanism. So this is grouped under the area which is called semantic language technologies and actually is part of everyday communication in most of developed countries like we communicate with our mobile devices, we perform all sorts of intelligence search. Electronic toys, household appliances. Our jobs will be still necessary with driver crisis since will be necessary when we need doctors. Will you manually troubles developed? So basically we train the neural networks on what is called the language model and then words become numerical vectors. So they set this embeddings, which should capture share relational meaning. So this brings us also to cross lingual embeddings, 'cause once we have this embeddings, all the words form a sort of a cloud in this high dimensional space. So a few trends in language processing so. Let's say wait within the last year or last two years is that we have now huge pre trained neural language models and huge means that they are trained on terabytes of data. So there are actually many areas we are very much concerned with the transparency of the models like medicine, law consultancy, public services and so on. I mean it's possible to explain neural networks, so one of the methods was example the research effort of our group. It actually trees the features. Now we take the information about a away. So this neural network said there's 80% of cancer recurrence, but in fact there wasn't cancer recurrence. So we need we are getting new semantic resources and architectures. Integration of models between within areas and text like. So a few conclusions on my talk, so there will be new exciting possibility to extract information from Image Ng, sound, text, Graphs, Time series, spectronic, health records and so on. So there are also new methodological, ethical, social dilemmas. It's partial knowledge because currently we have no models for it's a broader and general knowledge and intelligence. Actually one of the creators of neural networks said that country to 8 years we have a machine that will be like capable or general intelligence of an average human being. So AI is coming from the computer science, neurology, math, psychology, and then we actually we did some general methods which are applicable in many areas of industry, science, society. Like machine learning, data mining data science. Deep neural networks are and how they work, so the basic idea is that you have like some brain analogy and newer cell in the brain looks like this is like a newer cell and you have some input, or dendrites which receive some, let's say excitations. And when this cell is excited enough it sends a signal to its excellence with output output and then excite other cells are the neurons. Pretty much know about that, so around 2009 that was really revival of what is now called deep learning, which means deep neural networks at that time already. So why is this better than standard machine learning approaches?