[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so I think I'm maybe the only machine learning guy or non astronomer speaker today, but it's been a lonely business. I have to say exciting but uh, only business. Being a machine learning guide astronomy for 18 years. Yeah, there are a very small handful of us, so it's really nice to see a few new faces from the machine learning crowd. And finally cosmology. My topic comes to Nip, so I'm pretty excited so. Yeah, we have some standard machine learning problems in cosmology. Has some non standard ones, but classification. Let's let's take a difficult and important classification problem in astronomy that I've been working on for awhile. Quasar classification. It has many of the properties of other important classification property problems in astronomy. One is, it's really big that data is really big and that's been a concern of mine. When I since I've grown up in machine learning doing astronomy. Another one is really you really want the highest accuracies, because that's going to affect all of the physics that you base various conclusions on, and that leads toward non parametric things. That's at least one conclusion and then another one is measurement errors. And this is something that occurs really in physics type problems, where because you know the instrument and so on you can actually characterize the errors on different points. If you think about it, you really have to take that into account here, because we're trying to find the quasar quasars in millions or billions of objects, but they're very different kinds of objects, because some of them are really close, and some of them are little dots that are super far away, and so the errors on them are extremely different. So in 2004, we. So we introduced the first really scalable nonparametric method for Quasar classification that provided a big leap in accuracy. And because of the scalability, also the size of the Quasar catalog that could be achieved, and since then for about 7 years that sort of stood as the best classifier. Correct me if I'm wrong, but but these guys Joe Bovian Haag and collaborators have recently with a parametric model showing just how important. Taking into account measurement errors can be and they, I think edged out that method by a little bit, so it's been on the To Do List, do measurement errors for nonparametric methods for awhile. But they they kind of force the issue.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Is good. So here's our. We have two or three takes on this problem. About half of my lab now works on astronomy. Problem here is one of the most straightforward thing is to just take what we did, which was the kernel terminal discriminate analysis type method and see if we can modify that. To account for measurement errors, so you look in the statistics literature, you find kernel density estimation and how that can account for measurement errors. There's a 1 dimensional version.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
You can. What we've done is generalize that to the multivariate case and what you end up doing is you use a kernel new kernel that convolves that the error the measurement error on each point with your smoothing kernel, and so you get this funny kernel for a certain kind of air. And if you choose that air to be a certain thing, that makes it analytically tractable, you can do this and all the while keeping in mind. You want to be able to make a fast algorithm for it. OK, so that's what we've done and then.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
This is just showing just for density estimation. Classification is a further step that you do get in synthetic problems. Better accuracy, whoops, and that's that's it so.
