I was asked to give a little bit an overview of the National Innovation System that is that exists in Croatia and some of the technology programs that we are in. Where the Business Innovation Center of Croatia is a government or company established by the Croatian government, mainly with the aim to implement technology support programs and commercialization activities. If we're going to discuss the economy, which is based on knowledge which we've heard a lot about, then the fundamental postulate is somehow that we need to be aware that we must utilize technological revolutions and use them as the driving forces behind these. This is a very simplified overview of the National Innovation System framework. One for sure, as the improvement of the scientific base and building on excellence. 2nd is the appropriate and adequate funding sources for for startup companies. The technology transfer offices, incubation service providers are more on the development side of the market and what the government needs to do. Is to build sort of appropriate policies and strategies to implement or to incentivize these processes. For example, if we were to advance the National Research base, we need to take a lot of things into account. We would also need to reform the enrollment quotas which at the moment are heavily in favor of social and humanities studies in Croatia. And then the number of students involved in maths and science and engineering studies is dropping slowly, so this needs to be addressed as well. Once we are looking to direct some of the European Union money that's available to us towards these activities, pre seed capital seed, capital venture capital, something that's very underdeveloped in Croatia, we need to get this process going as well and guarantee schemes because often these companies they don't have something to give for collateral. We have companies collaborating with with each other, but not really in the in the in the process value chain or something like this and networking is is important as well. Some of the other things increased investments into R&D. Achieving a goal of 3% GDP allocation at the moment I Croatia is something like 1.2% of GDP directed towards R&D. We have before drafting the National Science and Technology policy there was some. Assessment of the situation and these objectives follow from the from the assessment of the current situation that that is something that we were very weak on, so we are directing all all our efforts at the moment in these directions is to promote establishment and development of knowledge based companies. This is all done through different measures and an incentive programs which I will tell you in a minute about establishment of technological infrastructure. Management of intellectual property and developing a industry of risk capital. Our government signed with the World Bank on the creation Science and Technology Project, which is something you have heard about early on in the morning. And these are the programs that we're currently running. Companies can come to us if they need to develop a new product or service or or something like this and they can get a conditional loan. And support to commercial R&D centers, technology incubators a little bit less on science and technology parks because these are heavy investments. We have quite stringent criteria to try to maybe narrow down the really a mass of these infrastructure facilities that exist in Croatia today, but really have very limited in impact. On the National innovation system. This is at the moment a little bit slowing down because of the financial market is in a little bit of a crisis so we need to attract 70% private sector investment in this fund and hopefully it will happen by the end of the year and two smaller programs just one more minute sponsored RND where we try to provide incentives for SMS to cooperate with scientific groups within research institutes and. We provide 50% of the funding and they contribute 50% from their side. I will mention something about the national innovation System, or at least our view. Croatian legislation at the moment is quite harmonized with the European and international Regulations and standards. And within that national strategy, we have to ensure somehow in application of IPR as a level 4 for economic growth, our state intellectual property Office is in charge of this. What is important is and I would like to stress here that in Croatia we have about one register patent per 100 published papers. Also, we see that the private sector is more inclined towards patenting public sector is more successful in publishing papers.