[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you very much. I'm very aware that this is the last presentation before lunch, so probably your attention span is this quite short. I will try to be brief. I was asked to give a little bit an overview of the National Innovation System that is that exists in Croatia and some of the technology programs that we are in.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Monting but first of all I need to introduce our organization because I know there are many international partners here and you may not know about us. Where the Business Innovation Center of Croatia is a government or company established by the Croatian government, mainly with the aim to implement technology support programs and commercialization activities. Our our activities are directed more towards SM ES innovative Assamese. Yesterday you heard a presentation from the Croatian Institute of Technology which is our sister organization. They operate more in the sector of science and we are more towards entrepreneurship. Our main areas of our activity are operational 5 technology programs, so which I will say something about a little bit later. We also support the Ministry of Science in formulation of the Science and Technology and innovation policy and of course. The implementation, and more recently we have become involved in programming of EU pre accession and very recently structural Funds for Croatia. We're acting, we're at the moment that the process of accreditation as an implementing body of the regional competitiveness program and some other activities as well within the zip program where the coordinating partner for the Enterprise Europe network. Eureka has also been transferred to us recently, and we're implementing one of the major projects within. Eva is a bio center and incubation centre for for Biosciences, the 1st.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And in Croatian I somehow thought this presentation could be divided into several parts, so I would like to say at the very beginning something about intellectual property framework in Croatia, because I think it's very important. All the commercialization activities start within the right IPR framework and we're still working on this. In Croatia. I will mention something about the national innovation System, or at least our view. What little bit simplified what it should be. And at the end of some of the technology programs we're implementing, and hopefully we can have maybe a little bit discussion. Feel free to jump in at any moment with comments or or question.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
As well. Um, OK two just one or two minutes on intellectual property. Croatian legislation at the moment is quite harmonized with the European and international Regulations and standards. These are all laws that are governing intellectual property, however. I think that there needs to be still significant work done here because we do not have at the moment any kind of regulations or something that could be equivalent to perhaps what is. If you're familiar in the United States debate dialect which was enforced by the US Senate and in 1980 giving the the intellectual property rights of inventions back to research organizations, at least for publicly funded research. But in turn, these. These research organizations have the obligation to file for patents to pursue commercialization activities and things like this. So at the moment this is something that we're still working on in Croatian. Could be an important push.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Shorts commercialization We do have a national strategy. And within that national strategy, we have to ensure somehow in application of IPR as a level 4 for economic growth, our state intellectual property Office is in charge of this. As as the main institution of the National intellectual property.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
System. I have some figures prepared, but it's not something that we can. We have the time to go through in depth at the moment, but if we look at the figures, patenting activity in Croatia is very low. We can draw maybe some conclusions from that and say are we really attacking our our businesses? Technology based anantha.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Like this?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
But the figures are very low. We there is information available about the fields of technology in which these patents are.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
I can leave you the presentation or email, or even you have these these data within the state intellectual.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The office, but what? What is important is and I would like to stress here that in Croatia we have about one register patent per 100 published papers. Also, we see that the private sector is more inclined towards patenting public sector is more successful in publishing papers. When I say successful, I mean in terms of number and I don't want to go into the impact factors and things that were mentioned yesterday, but at least in terms of publishing, it's more successful. But overall, I would say that the culture of protection of IP is is not well developed within the Croatian research organizations, and this is a problem and it needs to be addressed and the government and its implementing agencies need to think what what is the reason for that and what can be done to to improve it? And certainly setting a regulatory framework for this is one step.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Is this process? If we're going to discuss the economy, which is based on knowledge which we've heard a lot about, then the fundamental postulate is somehow that we need to be aware that we must utilize technological revolutions and use them as the driving forces behind these. These economy, which means that the government and all the the partners and everybody involved in the process should think of a framework to enable efficient and effective use of of these technology revolutions, which means. Putting adequate technology policies in place and things like this.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And we are working towards this. This is a very simplified overview of the National Innovation System framework. At the very top we have two councils in in, in the strategic roles, one at the very top, which is headed by the Prime Minister is called space, not that's a little bit of funny acronym it it means no at all. And if we would translate it so um and below them is the is the Council of the National Innovation System, and these two councils have the strategic goals of. Well, accepting and supporting science and technology innovation policies below them are our agencies, mainly of the Ministry of Science in the executive roles. At the moment we're also drafting these, but we really shouldn't be doing that, but for sure our role is in the implementation of these science and technology Policy's and then operating the financing programs that are going down to the beneficiaries and my organization be Crow and hit which you have heard about yesterday. The Creation Institute of Technology. On the side of technological development and the funding programs that are directed towards, I will mention a little bit later on incubation service providers, science and technology parks to succeed in venture financing. For for SMS for innovative startups and things like this. And on the other side, it is envisioned that the National Science Foundation will take over the role of competitive research funding which is at the moment so done by the Ministry of Science and really drive this this process of. Further, investing into an two excellent scientific base. At the universities and institutes.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Um? If we talk about the development of the National innovation system, there are some key elements which need to be addressed an for sure one is the formulation and implementation of adequate policy and strategy and really political will to implement it behind it. And then there are really the three pillars that we believe are important to drive this process. One for sure, as the improvement of the scientific base and building on excellence. 2nd is the appropriate and adequate funding sources for for startup companies. 3rd is the building of business and technological infrastructure without which is really not quite possible. To have this process completed because a lot of these companies technology driven companies, they need to invest, they do their work in laboratories. They need production spaces. They need to invest quite heavily in infrastructure and this is simply not possible for every single company to do by themselves. So this is something that governments often look look for is one of the measures to. To boost technology startups is to provide them with adequate technological infrastructure.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
If we look at the process, sort of from from idea to the market. These are some of the key steps that need to be, um, that need to be addressed, and some of the key players that are involved in this process. the University sends and research institutes of course are in charge of research. The technology transfer offices, incubation service providers are more on the development side of the market and what the government needs to do. Is to build sort of appropriate policies and strategies to implement or to incentivize these processes. And we, well, we we we drafted some kind of some kind of, let's say, recommendations for the government. What needs to be done and we really believe. For example, if we were to advance the National Research base, we need to take a lot of things into account. We have to discuss integration within universities, NYU education curricula, for example. At the moment we don't have science science faculties. Engineering faculties don't have entrepreneurship courses. Things like this, something that is common in Western Europe. We don't have it competitive research grants, so we have to move away from lump sum financing of National Institutes and research groups and try and strive more towards competitive and excellent science. We would also need to reform the enrollment quotas which at the moment are heavily in favor of social and humanities studies in Croatia. And then the number of students involved in maths and science and engineering studies is dropping slowly, so this needs to be addressed as well. In terms of providing sufficient funding sources. For example, for companies to to start a business or four for innovative individuals that have good ideas, there are some instruments in place, some grant some grand scheme, something like proof of concept funds, proof of principle. Once we are looking to direct some of the European Union money that's available to us towards these activities, pre seed capital seed, capital venture capital, something that's very underdeveloped in Croatia, we need to get this process going as well and guarantee schemes because often these companies they don't have something to give for collateral. They can't go to the bank and ask for money. You know this so these are these are all the things that we can do to make this process easier for them and in terms of business and technology infrastructure already pointed out some things but we are. We really need to look into and in the next years to develop technological platforms. I fully agree with you that we need to look maybe cross border for this as well because we have to ask ourselves, do we have the critical mass and in which areas do we have this critical mass development of public private partnership models? Because we have found in our work that if we have private partners involved somehow the process is much stronger rather than if it's all 1 sided on the public sector. Cluster development is very important as well. At the moment in Croatia we don't really have real clusters suite. We have companies collaborating with with each other, but not really in the in the in the process value chain or something like this and networking is is important as well. So these are the things that I hope that we will be channeling government support towards it in the next few years. Other primary elements that are important political leadership. Of course in well to to make these some of the changes that are really necessary. Introduction of new legislation, regulations, simplification in most cases. Collaborate collaborations. Public acceptance. One thing that's very important because we see a little bit or reluctance to adopt some changes. So a lot of people are trying to preserve the system that's now in place. So we really need to work on making the public understand and the value of innovations. And all these processes. And then of course we have to see what the markets.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
It's about all these things. Um, in terms of of national strategies underlying this system, we try to align them as much as possible. Of course, with the EU documents with Elizabeth Strategy, you know of course main goals, increased competitiveness, more jobs, better quality jobs. Some of the other things increased investments into R&D. Achieving a goal of 3% GDP allocation at the moment I Croatia is something like 1.2% of GDP directed towards R&D. We need to improve off budgets investments into R&D. This is something that we are very weak on in Croatia at the moment.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
We do have some strategies in place. The next challenge will be to put them now into action, really.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
We have before drafting the National Science and Technology policy there was some. Assessment of the situation and these objectives follow from the from the assessment of the current situation that that is something that we were very weak on, so we are directing all all our efforts at the moment in these directions is to promote establishment and development of knowledge based companies. This is all done through different measures and an incentive programs which I will tell you in a minute about establishment of technological infrastructure. Stimulating industry demands for research and development. Management of intellectual property and developing a industry of risk capital. Promotion of public confidence in science.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And innovation. In terms of implementation, one thing that's helped us very much in the past has been an agreement that the are. Our government signed with the World Bank on the creation Science and Technology Project, which is something you have heard about early on in the morning. With router is also involved. In the end this some in this project. This is something that has helped us set the framework for for the processes that we have established. Additionally, in 2006 the governments adopted some guidelines for supporting the innovation and technology system which provided really the framework for Bitcoin hits, hits, operations and since 2 years now our programs have been operational.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And these are the programs that we're currently running. We have a seat financing program, we call it ASMR, and this is really this is really seed investment into startup startup companies, so. Companies can come to us if they need to develop a new product or service or or something like this and they can get a conditional loan. They can get 70% of total project financing from us. They need to contribute 30% of their own money or some other source of an of investment, private, preferably into the project. We have a technology infrastructure development program that focuses on San creation. And support to commercial R&D centers, technology incubators a little bit less on science and technology parks because these are heavy investments. We have quite stringent criteria to try to maybe narrow down the really a mass of these infrastructure facilities that exist in Croatia today, but really have very limited in impact. On the National innovation system. So we we try to link them to research and academic institutions. RND based industry, some sort of some sort of technology provider. We have a venture capital program within which we are trying to attract venture capital. Venture capitalists to invest in Croatian companies. This is at the moment a little bit slowing down because of the financial market is in a little bit of a crisis so we need to attract 70% private sector investment in this fund and hopefully it will happen by the end of the year and two smaller programs just one more minute sponsored RND where we try to provide incentives for SMS to cooperate with scientific groups within research institutes and. And universities. So we provide funds for for joint projects. This is a grant and matching grant scheme. We provide 50% of the funding and they contribute 50% from their side. And another program that's focused conquer is focused on competitiveness in which companies can get access to financing for some for any kind, really of expertise and consultancy services related to their competitiveness. Upgrading the criteria is basically that they need to be a technology company, preferably a production company. And if they need to upgrade some business process, they can get funding for this as well.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Just to give you maybe a little bit perspective about the kind of investments in this project. So these are basically pilot programs. This is in euros, so something that we have invested through the program so far is. You see here, our program budget isn't is not very much, but at the moment this is what we have 8.5 million for for the seed fund, around 8 million for infrastructure. I should say we invest only in operations we don't invest in building building facilities and things like this.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So that's that's basically it, and if you have any questions, comments. Thank you very much for this presentation of declaration national Innovation System and the role of Bitcoin. It and are there any questions? Everybody's ready for lunch. It is.
