Bad title of a target listening to the pulse of our city during city scale events, and I hope that you will understand what it means at least later on. Of course, one is wrong because the London Olympic Games were not in 2014, sorry. In terms of ingredients, I believe that there is the key point here in using semantic technologies, and I say this in a broad sense. OK, on one side I'm thinking about ontology based access as a way to enter the variety. You can clearly cope with them, but what I think is that here you have a problem of velocity and a property of volume so. And there is no open data that tells me that it is a bed and breakfast. And the last thing is visual analytics. They will not make sense at all. I put this but I've been working on in the last year, so the first thing is if you want to scale you should remember that order matters. This is the Maslow Iraqi of needs. So as input data we have above RDF streams and of death graph, we input the streaming information in the background information. First of all, the entire thing started more or less five years ago when I realized that the digital reflection of reality is really starting to track in reality quite closely. I mean, no doubt that this is possible. Meaning that you don't lose thing because otherwise you have many problems in dealing with incompleteness and noise generated by this stuff and we try to minimize as much as possible the latency by using main memory. We would like to work on the optimization, but will also make it much faster in terms of saying which are the top 10 hashtags used in the last half an hour OK? What I believe is that for the first time in history, we can really feel the pulse of our cities, which somehow means that you take all that information that is out there. Summer widgets in HTML5 you can do hash map bar charts, HHR dot charts, and so forth, and all of them are somehow the counterpart of some linked data published. And we were imaging to be here, asked to track the movement of these people. Are able to see pics of tweets that pop up during the opening ceremony and somehow if you look them on a map you can see interesting phenomenon. To test this, so to check whether it's true that one can feel the pulse of the city, we decided to look for city scale events, so the city scale event is very big event that runs through. And the kind of question that we collect from the people that are interesting in this city sensing problem is which are the most attractive events. Of course it makes sense to understand whether you were very successful as organizer, but very badly trying to communicate the content of your event. City itself becomes a big event, so there are 600 venues that are thousands of smaller events and this collectively is called the Milano Design Week. But as the potential to unveil very interesting city related phenomena because you can know where people are gathering where people, what people are interested in, what topics I mean they are discussing in a given moment if some event is running, what do they feel about the topic or about or any given area? Of basic research to do in the top K query answering continues top K query answering in crowdsourcing for data cleansing data. Maybe it's better to ask people what they do mean about para Queen Anne. Or are they going to the restaurants? What is the systematic behavior of the people?