[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you for inviting by the way, but it's my pleasure to be here presenting my work. I will live somehow to give you an overview of what I did in the last two three years, more or less, mainly on social media analytics, but more recently a bit also on our telecom data analytics. Bad title of a target listening to the pulse of our city during city scale events, and I hope that you will understand what it means at least later on.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
More or less the talk would be a bit about the context of this research. What I believe are the key ingredients that you should bring together in order to address the challenges that come up in trying to fill the pulse of the city. What I believe are the free research hypothesis that are guiding my work in this area when I will somehow pick part of them. In particular, we pick the stream reasoning part and I will illustrate framework that we have to deal with streams using semantic web technologies and the core of the presentation is. Basically, an amount of things that we did in testing this research hypothesis in two events. Of course, one is wrong because the London Olympic Games were not in 2014, sorry. OK. Anne. I'm going to try to do some conclusions right so.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
First of all, the entire thing started more or less five years ago when I realized that the digital reflection of reality is really starting to track in reality quite closely. So if only 10 years ago it was impossible to think that one can detect who is in this room now. Nowadays is of course possible, right? I mean, no doubt that this is possible. And this is just one example of the amount of streams of information that flow through our environment. And when you concentrate on city, this becomes quite true. So this may be an important this person, but I believe that is simply an assumption that holds in urban environments and these streams are very different in nature. So you have strings that come out of sensor that we have been deploying the city in the last 20 years. Your streams come out of the fact that we know old devices that have sensors inside location calls RFID Wi-Fi. When something really incredible happening, the last five years so people start really giving up privacy and telling you bits of their own life in order to get something back. Sometimes it's simply that they see themselves more visible overtime, they get results back from giving up a bit of privacy, but all these users of social network which are location based really gives you an amount of valuable information and the last thing is that. Differently from the past, now there are an amount of open data. Sometimes we are not open, but the data is still there that describe the woman environment. So they tell you the streets. They tell you the point of interest and who is living there and so forth.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
No. What I believe is that for the first time in history, we can really feel the pulse of our cities, which somehow means that you take all that information that is out there. You find a machine that funnel them and fuse them, and in the end you have with nice balls that somehow are your sense. OK, that should make some sense for you as a designer of this machine.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
To test this, so to check whether it's true that one can feel the pulse of the city, we decided to look for city scale events, so the city scale event is very big event that runs through. Vent our city so it's probably hundreds of locations spread around the city. It takes 1234 ten days. Like the Olympics Games for instance, and it contains a lot of small events inside that happen sometimes in the same venue, sometime in different venues, sometime across venues, and they collectively get many people into the city that normally are not there and in some cases these are 10,000 other cases, maybe hundreds of thousands. And the kind of question that we collect from the people that are interesting in this city sensing problem is which are the most attractive events. So I might succeed in more when I do a cocktail to attract people when I do a Gallery of art to attract people and do visitor Fink visitor think about the events that they join. So are they happy? Do they get the message that I want to give them or are just here to drink OK? Because? Of course it makes sense to understand whether you were very successful as organizer, but very badly trying to communicate the content of your event. And yeah, I mean, did they come with a positive mood? Did they enjoy the event? We're happy in the end or not and the cool thing is for these kind of events you may find ground truth so you may have a program event you can go and check for news on there on the web after the event and this can help you evaluating whatever solution you are putting in place to do business social listening.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Let me give an example business the current war, but I'm doing so I will not actually lose straight out. This is done, but I mean consider it as the most advanced thing that we did so far. We are thinking about one specific week in Milano. It happens every April, Model S and it is the week where the Furniture Fair International Furniture Fair comes to Milano during this week. City itself becomes a big event, so there are 600 venues that are thousands of smaller events and this collectively is called the Milano Design Week. Now there are something like Alpha million people coming in one week. OK, so you can really somehow take what is normal away and only see what is generated by this event. At least that's what we're trying to do. Let me give an example.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So this is April 4th. Teen and it is the afternoon of that day. It was a Sunday if I remember and this is a map showing where people were falling from. If you are asking yourself, do I perceive the event here? You probably say. Well maybe there was something going on. In this part here, right whynott? Well, that's not really meaningful, because that is the center of Milano and most of the call comes from very anyway so.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
What if we take away? What is the systematic behavior of the people? So you have some way to compactly represent the pattern of phone call, and now you simply take them away square by square. Now something better is here, right? So you have areas where something differently from the usual is happening.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And given that you have some open data out there, what you can start doing is that saying OK, what's the name of this place? Oh, that's Brera is the better design district? OK, and that is the area of novel. It's one of area where most of the restaurants are. And this also is another area where most of the restaurants are Puerto Romana.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So OK, now we know that something different was happening. This area. Still, we don't know if this something is related to this Meow Design Week or not, right? So one thing that one can do is to bring in other streams. In this case we were using the Foursquare, Twitter and Instagram. You for instance do counting of hashtags that you use very plain thing and you come up with this dark clouds OK. What do we make sense? I believe that this is more or less as before. When I was showing the amount of calls from a different area, what you have to do is to try to take away what is systematic and suddenly you will discover that these are Mitch is a popular TV show in Italy that goes on every Sunday and have nothing to do with event OK or this Blue Studio, which actually is a venue. OK is not located in Puerto Romana in Puerto Romana. You have a bed and breakfast which is called Blue Studio. OK, so that's also goes away. I'm not saying that we do much semantic here and we're simply taking away what is normal in terms of and in the other cloud, Milano will disappear. Another frequent drug will disappear and you will.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
I have with 40 Salona which is Italian name that we use for Milan Design week OK? And if you go into this you will find popular location of Milan Design Week in Prayer District. OK, what does this tell us? Well not much. I mean as scientists we may say OK good, but with people that somehow ask this to us, we're very happy because they are the people that organize the events of four is a loner. Of not design we Kimbra district. They are very active on social media and they see here that the activity on social media was visible. OK so somehow on one side we were able to detect where people are from the mobile phone. On the other side we are able to tell them yes you are communicating the correct way. Your presence on social media. So this is what I mean by city sensing or city data Fusion. OK, just to give you an example of the kind of application we have in mind.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
In terms of ingredients, I believe that there is the key point here in using semantic technologies, and I say this in a broad sense. OK, on one side I'm thinking about ontology based access as a way to enter the variety. If you want to use these words from big data of your data so data are valid for a genius, an one way to handle it is to have one common model to access them through query writing. Most of the cases. Then you have a problem that we all know about, right? So you have to find them identity. You have to link. This name identifies something else because otherwise you cannot really make sense of this information. You simply have a collection of symbols and they do not tell much. Then most of these is very fast. The telco streams are very fast. This social stream and not that fast in Milano as you will probably see later on, we have more or less 1000 tweets every 15 minutes within the city center, so it's not bet amount of tweets. You can clearly cope with them, but what I think is that here you have a problem of velocity and a property of volume so. In the end, you collect a lot of data and it's not that easy to handle them. When you have a serious veracity problem, many cases detecting wherever the Blu Studio is or not a bed and breakfast importer. Romana is far from being trivial. OK, I can. I know it because I look it up OK, but I cannot link it. OK, I have a name identity recognition, but tell me Blue Studio come up quite often, but then what it is right? And there is no open data that tells me that it is a bed and breakfast. The way I discovered it was looking it up in Google OK, so now what if I can send an SMS to somebody living there? Sorry, sending a tweet to somebody living there and asking is there Bluetooth or something that you know what is it? There are startups now doing this one is in Milan is called pump on an it's very interesting crowdsourcing tool to learn about the urban environment. And the last thing is visual analytics. So if instead of giving you both grids that I believe makes sense, I would give you the numbers. They will not make sense at all. So the people that we are targeting do not really get numbers. They only get visualization. And this visualization should not be very static. They should tell a story so they should help them going through their data, digging it out and getting to the point they really understand the phenomenon that we're tracking. Now.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The point here is that if you look into this technology, you will discover that there are very limited lot of limitations. For instance, if you want to do real time, an ontology based data access, you have problems. It's very hard task, simply it's not something that you can come up with a solution. Tomorrow it takes 2 three PhD students to do this kind of things and maybe not even finish them. The crowd sourcing most of these crowdsourcing techniques they try to use incentives that are OK. If you think that your crowd is spread across the planet. For instance, you pay them a bit OK, but what if you want to know something about that district inside the city? OK, maybe you have to use other incentives that are not mean simply paying people. And the last point is visualization of Earth. There are many and we also show some that we develop ourselves, but most of them are for experts. And what you should target non experts visualization.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Now here are my free research. I put this but I've been working on in the last year, so the first thing is if you want to scale you should remember that order matters. I will elaborate in the next slide. The second one is crowdsourcing. In this environment must be incentive. Must be urban centric and the last one is really this visualization must be done by people that are good at doing this, not by engineers that are normally. Not that good.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Now let me try to elaborate on this first point. I start from an observation order, may reflect recency order, may reflect relevancy, trust ability. So there are a number of reasons why you want to order things. And if you look into the database technology, what you see is that order is a key issue in any traditional solution. If you don't have indexes in a database, you don't have good answers, right? I mean they take too much. No, what happened probably are aware of it is that the database community work on this idea of order OK and they came up with that was three management system, the complex event system that make time or recency if you prefer first class citizen. So in this kind of system, the recency is the driver of any computation, and there are other examples where relevance and trust ability are driver for computation and collectively in the database business called top K query answering or. Skyline Query answering other names but they have order at the centre of whatever we do and nowadays it is quite common in VLDB or Sigmund to see paper on this not so easy thing which is called the combination of top K query answering and stream management system. So how to answer efficiently on top K continuous queries. Now what we did back five years ago was saying why don't we do this for reasoning if you ever look to scalable reasoning they also use indexes. But they completely forgot, for instance, that the world is not static. OK, so this is my previous research or running research on stream reasoning, but I believe that that's just the first thing. Why don't we try to do top K reasoning where you have goal driven reasoning that is somehow limited by smart ideas that you stop Kinison? Maybe one day you can even go up there. So the key point here is I believe, and I'm trying to demonstrate, OK, that if you harness order, you can actually make sense of data in real time even if they are a genius maximum volitive OK. Should I wait for you to take the picture? OK.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Now a bit about the incentives you may know. This is the Maslow Iraqi of needs. It's a theory about what we we. We respond to needs OK and the idea is that you have very basic needs that you have to fulfill before you can satisfy upper needs. And now if you look at the. Crowdsourcing work. I believe that somehow you can place many of the crossing system on this plot on this parameter. For instance, recapture you know probably was recapture, right recapture is a good example of either you have it or you die, right? So if you don't have this, you cannot enter the system. You cannot get any Mail, so you really target your basic needs somehow. Things like Amazon Turk. It goes a bit up, then they pay you to do something so. Your motivation must not be that you find somebody or you eat something. Maybe also because you get some money. But the point is money probably are a point in this. The entire thing about gamification is targeting much upper layer of this, right? I mean you feel you are number one. I give you the the tag that tells you that you are good in that right? I mean more or less wet and I don't know if you are aware but there are even websites like Innocentive where people set up problems that are very complex. And let's say not the best people. But I mean good enough researcher or designers or whatever come up to demonstrate that they have a solution. And normally this this system really come up with solutions that are targeting very high level needs. So you want to show that you can do. It's a sport that is at least as good as the best spot makers in the world, OK, and you compete, among other people that believe something similar. Now my point is, if you want to do instead, if you want to work in crowdsourcing in this setting, you have to remember these in place yourself somewhere where it makes sense. So maybe you can target the lower layers for things that people really need to do, so you may target the lower layers when you need to track people on the bus. OK, if I. Ask you to use my web app to tell me where you are in a bus. You will not use it, but if I offer you an application that help you help me pay help you paying the bus ticket, maybe you use it right. So if I place myself here more or less and ioffer you a way to pay the bus, maybe you start turning it on and I will start collecting data about who takes witchduck, which bus, in which moment of the day and after awhile if you get adoption you have. Real time origin destination matrix that you can use to make your traffic system more able to track the people needs. People transportation needs the last.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Point is about visualization. This is a very cool work that I discovered we do in Politecnico. So I was looking for somebody that can do visualization, but I have in mind that I cannot do myself and I discovered that we have a group in polytechnical which is called density Design Lab. And what we do is they actually work on meaningful visual analytics. OK, you probably don't know what this is, but most of you will have look at this column. And this column. Right, simply because they are black, blue and red, right? An if you, if I give a bit of background, these are the days of Milan Design Week. Across the years you probably now soon understood that in this year it was very hot and in this year it was very cold and it was even snowing. Now, I'm not saying that this is the perfect visualization, but at least to me, this tells more than many other visualization I've seen in my entire life, and it's very compact. Which is the two things I I believe, are key in this work. No.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
I did a lot of work in testing this hypothesis, and I built a lot of systems because I really like to build things that works in reality to test whatever I do. We did many, many things in same reasoning. We did work on. Top K, let's say sparkle, where is aware, but it's called Parker rank, but we did recently and in the crowd sourcing we developed two games. One is called Urban match, another one is called Monopoly. We are both trying to target needs of people in the environment to solve. In the first case, linking data problem in the second case, assessment of quality of linked data across the city environment. And the visualization, as you can see, it's really ongoing, so it's mostly recent work. And of course I can.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
We talk about everything because otherwise you will stay here for five hours instead of 50 minutes. And so I will focus mainly on stream reasoning and mostly on the streaming link data framework and on visualization. OK, so that's more or less what I tried to do. Now I have. Off an hour 20 minutes 25 minutes. OK, maybe I will give you space for questions. Get.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Maybe? So the League streaming link data framework where thing that we did here was thinking about dealing with streams in the semantic web setting. So as input data we have above RDF streams and of death graph, we input the streaming information in the background information. We have a query language that is an extension of sparkle which is called continuous sparkle. And this system come up with a number of features. It have adapters that send stream in from many sources. For instance social streams from Instagram, Twitter we can record portion of streams. We can replay personal stream so you can image that one way to do this. Understanding what is systematic is through recording things and then offline do computation that you reuse to play in real time. Aside what is coming from reality? We can decorate streams through invocation of external API that for instance get you links from name identity. We can do analysis, of course. That's the core of this stuff out of whatever stream comes in, and we can do complex event processing on them so we can translate role level streams in event and then we can assemble this event and go on analyzing them. And the last we publish everything as linked data and visualization are based on these data publishers linked data.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
The principle behind are quite straightforward. First of all, this is a publish subscribe system because you want to handle the velocity requir meant, so you have everything is it goes through the system. To push fashion, you receive information and you push it out so you don't wait for system to pull information out of this stream system. Some hour relies on message passing, which is reliable. Meaning that you don't lose thing because otherwise you have many problems in dealing with incompleteness and noise generated by this stuff and we try to minimize as much as possible the latency by using main memory. So this is a main memory system. It uses as much memory as you can in order to avoid writing anything on secondary storage.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
From an architectural point of view, you can think that it more or less in this way you have data sources on one side they send information to this system through HTTP and this system will publish link data. In the end an all the visualization will be based on whatever is published in linked data. So here you have the stream. The adapters will transform whatever is the format of the stream into some RDF that will go through a bus that is the central component of a system. You can analyze whatever passed by and inject new stream into this system. If you are not happy with information that you have, you can pull information out of some static data sources through decoration, so you can, for instance, running decorator that find name identity and then takes Venom identity and use DBP spotlight to get a link. OK, just to be very trivial. Any of these stream can be recorded on secondary storage for analysis that you can take offline and you can somehow replay whatever stream you have previously recorded. You can publish and then you can visualize.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
No, giving a bit of details of what's going on inside. The data format that the adapter sends out is RDF graphs, so inside you have triples an within it. Normally we represent information using popular vocabularies, so in this case we're talking about social data. We're using the shock ontology. In other cases we are using different ontology. We have example based on semantic sensor networks and so if you use that kind of ontology. Here for instance, I'm representing a tweet famous tweet by Tim Berners Lee that he did at the opening ceremony of Olympic game. What I really believe is crucial to understand is that this system will be completely useless if the information will be relational because you have other system to cope with them, and in this specific case one can see that even that Tweet is a small graph. OK, so it really pays off to represent it in this kind. Of model, which is RDF, because you have a number of hashtags you don't know how many in advance, so you cannot create enough columns to ask them all. Here you have a creator which is a pointer to somebody in a static graph OK, and if this case you don't have it. But if you have that you can point to user and you can create network of tweets, reply and retweet. OK so really. I mean you are transmitting a small graph which is part of a larger graph.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
The bus, OK, it's simply publish subscribe system. We use technology that is state of the art in this case.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
On the publishing this is done through Link data as I said, but we cannot use Link data themselves because they are not meant to be used for evolving information. So we came up with something we call the streaming link and data format. We did it some years ago, is nothing too complex, so you have a set of name. It graphs each name graph, contain whatever you want to publish, and then there is another graph which is called the streaming graph. That tells you how visa instantaneous graph that contained information are related. So in this case we see that varies with S graph that contains graph one as the first element, and this one is followed by the igraph two and we are using RDF lists as a way to represent the order. And you can have many more annotation on it, so you can annotate provenance of this data. You can annotate multiple timestamp generation of the graph, transmission of the graph, receiving of the graph and whatever you need to do to put in this kind of information.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
When you do recording, somehow vadia is pretty similar. We use the same format, but the list is never closed, so here very.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
These null in VN that stops they released when you do recording you simply keep adding pieces to this list and you go on OK and you only put end in the very last moment. And to record it, of course we need to be very fast. So what we do, we simply write a file on the file system and then we forgot it will be a problem later on to replay them. But when you record them you don't want to have to pay any over it, so there is no story.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Here in reality.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Vandalizer so as I told you, we do analysis based on sparkle and this is an example of query that we use inside. It's a query that continuously count which are the most popular tweets. Hashtag in the tweets that we were using. So here you already see that we need top K and continuous query in this kind of setting. These engine is not optimized for top canus but is optimized for streaming query. We would like to work on the optimization, but will also make it much faster in terms of saying which are the top 10 hashtags used in the last half an hour OK? The.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Decorator, as I told you, they do plenty of things. The purpose to have them here is to add information. Most of our deployment contains this dictionary based sentiment classifier, which is a very basic tool that based on a dictionary, classified tweets in terms of positive, negative and neutral and also does detection of contradiction, which is something quite useful and we did this together with people in train to the group of 10. Upon us

[870.0s - 899.0s]
And with regard to visualization, we have a number of these visualization that are. Summer widgets in HTML5 you can do hash map bar charts, HHR dot charts, and so forth, and all of them are somehow the counterpart of some linked data published. One could use vocabulary to describe the data and to attach them in a semantic web way. We haven't OK, so I invite people to think about doing it, but I believe that this is state of the art in semantic web research. No.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Let me give you some example of what we did with this. For instance, we took the tweets about the open ceremony. You may know that there was a main train station. There are many others, but there was a main train station here and people to get to the stadium basically have to work through one single route. OK, so there was no other way but going through that route to get to the stadium. And we were imaging to be here, asked to track the movement of these people. And the point is, can we do it only looking at social media now if we can, that would be fantastic because it's much less much more cheap than CCTV and any other kind of measurement that you can do even for mobile data.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
We use the tweets from 20,000 that we recorded that night and as ground truth for this experiment, we used the video of open ceremony and other information that you can find on Wikipedia.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And what we came up with.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
It's things like this. So for instance, we were able to see phenomenon words, continent and city scale we.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Are able to see pics of tweets that pop up during the opening ceremony and somehow if you look them on a map you can see interesting phenomenon. There are videos on our web pages where you can see the people that go to sleep because it's too late. Another vet wake up on the other side of the world.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
And we were able to understand. The different things that were going on during the opening ceremony through the computation of the most frequent hashtags after you took away what was the less a standard behavior of people. And here are some figure that tells you. But if you only look at this, you have quite a chance up to 40% to get something meaningful. So they tell you what is going on inside the stadium more or less. With 50 million tolerance. OK. I.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
You can track the sentiment of the people across time, and you can somehow see that people get bored during the. The welcome OK, which is 9 most of the tweets are not related at all to the vet ceremony. I mean these people say over Italians over that. OK? I mean there are two few to be seen.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
We also give a try as I was saying before to track the movement of the people. OK, so we came up with an algorithm that was using our infrastructure to check whether we were able to detect events that things were more or less like this so.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
You start from Twitter, you take. A bounding box around each venue and you take a bounding box outside the stadium and a bounding box around everything and you start counting. So I count how many people are tweeting within this big box. When I count how many weight wheat from the metros, how many weight wheat from the water pollorena? How many from the Aquatic Center and so forth. No, after I did all this counting, I basically translate row data in numbers that represent how many people in a given time frame are tweeting from an area. OK, like the squares that I did before. Now one can take an outlier detection algorithm here and try to check whether there is anything unusual. So there are people treating from metric every time of day, but is in this moment something. Incredibly different from previous moment going on and you do with outlier detection in every bounding box every. Alpha now are OK and what happens in the end is that now you have a set of events. OK, so you have a peak measured in the tram station. A peak measured outside venues. Epic measure inside the venues and what we tried out is this very simple complex event detection algorithm. If I see a pic in the Metro which is followed by a peek outside a venue which is followed by a peek inside some venue and this is in a time frame of Alpha, now are. OK, then, probably there is an event running in the venue now. OK, you got video. So if I want to have somebody in the venue they must come to the venue and because we are queuing I believe they will treat and because they are even queuing when they get into the Metro they will quit even when they exit. Finally here OK. On this.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
More or less the results. So the first line is very set of events that we detected across the entire duration of Olympic Games in the stadium. The second one is the water center and the last one is the voter poll arena. You can see that somehow there is a relationship between how good this thing works and the capacity of the venue. So if you have. 20,000 sitting place. Then of course people are enough to tweet about the event and this algorithm works if you only have 1000 and the event is not that popular, it does not work, but is only a problem of volume of tweets is not a problem of approach itself, which of course that does work so quite happy in the first part, not on the last one.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
No, given that we were able to detect this, we ask ourselves, can we even visualize this? So is there anything cool that we can show and what we discover?

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
There are things like this, but in the opening ceremony you can see a constant flow of people that exit the Metro. Here. But go through with a stressful work. They enter the area outside the stadium when they move into the stadium. They stay inside for the entire ceremony. You cannot see the flow out because probably there was not enough tweeting permit. People got tired of tweeting overtime. But this again, this is something like one case because all the other example that we have even for our values do not show it, so it's not that easy to do it in this setting. It can work, but does not work every time. No.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
We also did work in the Milan design week.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
The work that we did, of course.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Uses our system as a basic solution on this is.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
The thing that we developed this year it was a real system so it was running live. You can even probably use it now. I don't use it because the Internet is not good enough, but if you go onto index for this alone it you will see now what's going on in Milano. Of course there is nothing going on because it's night. It's something like 4:00 AM. Five AM still. I mean you will see that there is something. In this diagram.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Which is the number of tweets per hour, but we look like this. So people were tweeting yesterday and probably will look like this. So people were looking yesterday and today they are sleeping likely. And we have.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Our visualization, like this one for top hashtags.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
This is a dot chart that shows which part of the city attract more people across time. And.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Very nice findings. For instance, one can see the event through the volume. So this is, let's say the day after the event you can see that all the days that are in the event have more tweets than usual. Even here when the event finish an ear when reverse the event starts, you can see the. Difference quite fast happening under our version of phenomenon, which is the tweeting during the night so people in Milano do not tweet up to 1:00 AM normally during the week, but when there is the design week they do.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Now let me skip a bit of this. K.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Anne, let me focus on with so we also did a longitudinal analysis for one specific event. So we were asked by Asus to track what we did during the event. They launch the foam pad. During Milan Design Week and it's cool to see that. This is very visible. OK, so they they did it. They got a peak of 250 tweets in that specific moment. When they did it. The bad news for them is that whenever you do one of these, announce that people don't like it, but that's a different issue. OK, and I believe that one reason for Visa is our fault.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
So what we are using as I told you before is we're using this dictionary base system. They are of course not good when you have sarcasm. When you have idiomatic expressions. In this case, if you type things like this when I bite is so bad. OK, it happens that this is a negative thing, right? So I point without not because I mean I want to show errors, but because I want you to understand that there is a tradeoff between being fast and being accurate, OK? So we are very fast because we use the right technology to be fast dictionary based instead of very fancy NLP system. But when you end in this problem OK and you have to take apart when you tell.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
In this case the customer OK, but generally speaking when you do your work, the cases when this happened because of your system from those where it's really negative opinion. So for instance we track down that the phone had preordered really cause vet because they were not available and because they were too expensive. No.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Pin up. I believe that what I show you as the potential maybe cannot now. But as the potential to unveil very interesting city related phenomena because you can know where people are gathering where people, what people are interested in, what topics I mean they are discussing in a given moment if some event is running, what do they feel about the topic or about or any given area? You can start even do inference if you can say this on top of this information and my organizing the event in the proper way. That was an important question that we got as a requirement and this goes into the direction to track the evolution of a feeling across time and things like that.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Now the problematic aspects are if you lack volume, you basically don't get meaningful film out of this. That's normal, OK, but one should be aware of it. If you try to use things that perform faster, so you are really doing proper work in velocity, then you may fail on velocity. OK, because you end up with wrong results and the last point is there is limited a priore knowledge in this setting that I was not expecting. For instance, during the opening ceremony we saw something very interesting popping up, so plenty of people were tweeting para Queen, OK, and. Looking it up in any system that we have did not help understanding what para Queen means. You probably remember. OK, there was James Bond parachuting with the Queen. OK now this would be very cool. I believe it's very interesting thing for the semantic web. I mean we have information where we could make sense of this, probably because we also have the track of the open ceremony before, but still you cannot invent this because this is really something cool that came up to the mind of a people. Start with Impara Queen and most of the other did it as well, so it's one of these trendy phenomenon that happened on Twitter.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
So if I would recommend steps of research, I would say that there is a bit. Of basic research to do in the top K query answering continues top K query answering in crowdsourcing for data cleansing data. Linking for instance this para Queen. Maybe it's better to ask people what they do mean about para Queen Anne. It's even quite hard to determine what is systematic when you don't deal with numbers. So if it is very easy to tell what is systematics in terms of number of phone calls? If you start doing it for hashtags, it becomes very difficult. OK? And if you start doing it for ashtech that you linked to entities in, for instance, DB pedia, it's even more difficult because you may have done wrong things in linking. And if you want to do more applied research here, I see an opportunity to do a lot of work in profiling the crowd. So these people are asking us, can you tell us if the. Journalists are coming to my event. Or are they going to the restaurants? Because this really matters. We want to get the opinion makers. We want to be sure that the kind of people that we want are here now to tell them what we want and so there is also a lot of things to do in in this direction predicting social trends. I believe it's clearly an interesting thing that many people would like to see done and probably. With basic research up, there are building blocks that you need to do in this direction.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
I'm not doing this alone because it's too much to do for one person. I'm not putting names because it's too complex to list all the people that work with me probably are. 2030 and they are not in my organization. OK, I only have one PhD student when research assistant, so most of them are outside and these blocks here Model S tell you the organization working with and I really thank you them for the amount of work that was done to bring this to reality. Thank you.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
Very much, and if we have time for questions.
