How will we really populate the semantic web on a very large? What's the feasibility and what is what are the prospects of getting computers to read unstructured web data? Perhaps mayor of X or live in X occurs a lot with these things. We just looked at in the previous slide is a very hard learning problem. One an easier learning problem you should make and apparently more complex. Text patterns, if it matches just one of the tips patterns associated with headquartered in that's not strong enough evidence, so it's fairly conservative and filtering out things that are. And then it takes those promoted instances and shares those using the mutually exclusive and subset superset relation in the ontology so that a new city that it just promoted also gets propagated to become a new positive example for location. Call this project to read the web, and we have a problem specification that you can see here. And we're willing to give a handful of examples of training examples of each item in that ontology. Data to read and perhaps occasional access to human trainer, but we're interested in kind of exploring the question of. It only has to do these two things. It has to extract more facts from the web to populate that. We can actually do a remarkably good job of semi supervised training of many classifiers simultaneously, even though it's really hard to train just one classifier. So armed with that idea. You can say, well, how can we increase the coupling even further? But despite the fact that natural language understanding is far from being solved. That goes through the knowledge base and for each relation in the ontology like team play Sport. So if you want to do that, if you want to build a program that will learn to predict the value of this relation from other properties of the team. Well, it's obvious where they come from. So anyway, if you look at all these rules, if you and I think this is a place where we do want human intervention because the damage that a bad rule can do is widespread, and the good that a good rule can do is great, and so if you manually filter these out you end up throwing away 15 of the 49 learned rules, then when you apply then you get over 1000 new Triples added to the knowledge base. So one way is to leverage redundancy on the web if we want to know where NASA launches rockets from. Another thing we'll see is that we're going to use some new. As this slide says begins, we do give it an initial ontology. We do give it 10 to 20 seed examples of every predicate. The seed examples where these first ones up to theater arts and now it has added on its own.