First year PhD students at a local bashes lab at the brain and Spine Institute in Paris, and today I'm going to talk to you about Live Image Ng of RNA dynamics for genetic forms of ILS in zebrafish. Precisely and study RNA metabolism in the pathology to understand RNA binding protein central role in this in the disease and its interaction with key LS transcripts, such As for example here, question someone or even see 9 or 72 VCP attacks in two, for example. So um, in order to to start on this project, we need to have in C2 experiments and fluorescent in situ hybridization technique that I apparently is really interesting is actually these are any scope technique that will allow us the targeting of the visualization of a precise transcript at the single molecule precision. To visualize RNA in vivo. First of all, the enzyme the cast 9 here that makes the cut the modification in the genome and makes the modification at the precise location thanks to the formation of a complex with the single guide RNA an appam achieve that you can see here. This technique has been used in vitro in this great genial paper that you can see here where there were able to assess that this technique allows efficient targeting of endogenous RNA that apparently it has no secondary effects and that localization they get is highly correlated with their control fish experiment. For example, here in this line the motor neurons, so that would allow me to have my motor neurons tagged with the RFP, so clearly visible and then the expression of my dead cast names with GFP in the nucleus and when it's formatting good complex to target in RNA, it's visualize evolved by tiny precise GFP puncta in the cell. It combines genetic and imaging tools to do so. Altogether, this will allow us to understand more clearly the central role and importance of RNA binding proteins in a LS appreciate with more precision RNA almost as defects in the pathology and of course, precise level. A feedforward loop driving the disease progression and altering altogether both protein and RNA homeostasis. For example, for imagery it is transparent at the embryonic stages and then it shows a great range of budgeting tools that are available. We talked about more for Windows for knockdown Group. Sorry, through the touch evoked escape response that we just showed you. That goes with the reduction of the motricity above our fish in terms of distance, envelope envelope, city and this can be a significantly ameliorated by Co injecting with a wild type human.