So I have a background in computer science in biomedical engineering. My research has focused on visualization and helping others to visualize their data. This is my second time teaching the introduction to scientific visualization. We want to see what it looks like by intersecting or clip intersects the geometry with the half space. The effect of this is to remove all but the geometry on one side of the user defined plane, so this may become useful if you have a very large data set and you just want to look at a part of it, not the entire data set. Like so make sure that contour one object in your pipeline browser is selected and just for orientation I've selected the plus Y direction. Typically what I like to do is to rotate it so that the error head points out at me, but you can position your clipping plane wherever you choose once you're done. Recreating or repositioning the clipping plane? So there is a filter called slice which intersects the geometry with the plane and the effect is similar to clipping except for all that remains. An notice there is something that little icon that looks like an I to the right to the left of each of those objects. Otherwise your output will look slightly different from what we're going to do here, so Contour one should not be visible for the next task. Click on filters common and then slice. And what you should see is another object in the pipeline browser. It leads to decision making. How many of you have heard of the Human Genome Project? Again, like I said, you can move that plane. The data set again if you choose to, so remember we said we needed to do with all of the. Applications or the filters that we're going to be applying the process is to read in the data into paraview, which we've done. So now we're going to look at a more complicated, more interesting datasets. I like for you to do is to delete. All of the objects that you have in your pipeline browser and you can do this by using pressing down the control button and selecting multiple objects and doing a delete. Or you can delete them one by one, but once you're done you should have a screen that looks like one that's on your right where there are no objects in the pipeline browser. You can name them accordingly to fit the data or the type of filter that you applied. When I want you to do is again, we're going to play around with this with the numbers here to see what is actually inside that data, so we know that the minimum value is zero and the maximum value is 4095, and in this case is only one value that's showing, so that's the only. And again, this allows you to toggle between the two, the two states. So I want you to select I want you to delete that one value that's in the value range and you'll see there are column buttons. And then click on the button at the bottom right below that which is to add a value range and what we're going to do is we're going to play around with these values, so for those of you who are following along and you have your at this point you read in the data file and you see the minimum value is 0. I don't know if you can see this very well, but it allows us to visualize spatial relationships, so I've put the websites for each one of these figures. I think it was 1962 from the first stores open versus up to a thing for Walmart is 1980 on the targets 1980 and I think Walmart and Sam's maybe 2010. So just an example to show you of how visualization can show you or it can present. Feel free to put in some values. Make sure that the the minimum value isn't less than zero and the maximum value is not greater than 4095 and you can also play around with the step as well. So I would say do that, clear all the values, click OK and then click apply and what you should. Can you think of any other reason why visualization might be important? Remember, a clip intersecting geometry with a half space? You want to make sure that you click on or select Contour one annual pipeline browser and then go through the process of filters, comment and then clip again. Remember, you can not only rotate the clipping plane, but you can move it as well to to position it where you want the clip to occur. Also take note of the different properties that are set by default. Like I said, depending on where you actually put your clipping plane, but. OK, so now if this property was set to the inside out property was set to 0 then the clip filter would return that portion that lies on the outside. So what we want to do is select Contour one. We want to select control one and then select filters common and then slice. So remember as slice intersects the geometry with the plane, the effect is similar to a clip and but the thing that remains, or the parts that remains is only the geometry where the plane is located, and again you can move this. Maybe this the clip and the slice at different views at different times? And by saving the state you can save the state of the visualization pipeline itself. You can either save the state itself or the application state, or just the state. You can also save your data. All you want to save is the output of the datasets and the different outputs from those filters that you generated, and so you can do that as well. You can save a screenshot. So apparently allows you to do that as well. OK, So what we want to do is to delete again the objects that you have in the pipeline browser. So that we can start with a clean slate again, you can select multiple objects using the control key and then press the delete or select delete to delete nodes. If you anyone is more interested in the specifics of any part of the VTK file format. Our comment description of it is a rectilinear grid of temperature values. Those files into one file. So if you load the file? So what we're going to do today is going to give you a high level overview visualization. We're going to talk about what the purpose of visualization is. We'll look at some visualization applications will go through the data visualization process because visualization is a process. Each step so that you can see what are the different things that you will need to do to visualize your data. The army size ended up in Moscow at 100,000. The size of the army by the time they returned back from whence they started, they were down to 10,000. So why is visualization important? Conference for all types of things visualization. So for those of you who haven't already done so, the slides are available on the wiki. When do you think about visualizing your data? What is the purpose of visualization? Visualization is of taking that raw data an actually converting it into a form that is viewable, understandable to humans, and for some of you because you have so much data that you want to present, you want to present it in such a way that it does not overwhelm, and that's one of the key issues that you would want to work on, or to be able to present your data in that way, so there's no way for you to know, aside from the fact that you have the slides, some of you in front of you. Wind patterns we're going to look at how we can create those contour lines, the flow of the wind. The actual shuttle itself, so with visualization you can show many things with one. So why do we care? There is a demand for people with the knowledge of how to actually take that data and generate something from it so that it is insightful and that it doesn't overwhelm the amount of data that we are generating between now and 2020. It will grow by a factor of 44%, and that doesn't even include to scientific data, so there's a lot of data being generated. When should you think about visualizing your data? Same time, so we're going to look at scientific visualization, which is primarily concerned with visualizing 3 dimensional data. Often times it could be architectural. This often is that your first visualization will not be your last visualization. Where is iteration and refinement, iteration and refinement? The last step is to view the results and So what I provided is some output from paraboot from some other visualizations that have been created. Just to give you an idea of the different types of visualizations that can be created using paraview. What does insight lead to? So large data produced by large simulations produce a large visualization results in a requirement. There's lots of features, a collection of C++ libraries you can't in this leverage by many applications, different applications. So Paraview is an end user application with support for parallel data archiving, parallel rendering, parallel processing. Have you multiplatform is a mature rich interface. This primary contributors are Kitware Sandia National Labs. All boxes or sales are the same size and shape, and I provided is an example of what a uniform rectilinear grid image might look like in the lower right hand corner. If your data set has some curvature features, there is a curvilinear, structured grid that you can use where it is regularly gridded. What if you have an unstructured grid? So insight leads to discovery. Python is saves your animations derived variables. This is an example of a rectilinear grid, and so is showing you that you can include multiple variables in one visualization. So I have three basic steps that we're going to go through is that you have to read in the data we're going to filter the data and then render. Enormous amounts of data, sometimes paraview, will like bomb out at a certain point visit. OK, so you can either download the datasets from this web link or I do have USB drives. And then we have what I'm calling a sample data file and what I want to do is to give you the tools to create your own data file to load your own data into paraview. So what we're going to do is we're going to load the data we're going to extract some isosurfaces from the data we're going to create some contours, clips, slices, do all of these things that we mentioned before as a part of the visualization process, and then hopefully, if time permits, we'll look at maybe doing some Python scripting. There's something called a pipeline browser. You have something called an object inspector. So if you locate wrecked grid two dot VTK. In order to see the output from the filters that were going to apply, you must click apply. So now we're going to create some isosurfaces. And the technique that uses a contour that's the filter that we're going to apply, and it extracts the points occurs or services where a scalar field is equal to a user defined value. So we want to go to filters common and then contour. Show you the range of values that's in that data set.