[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so first I'll tell you a little bit about myself. Maybe? Maybe not.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
OK. So I have a background in computer science in biomedical engineering. My research has focused on visualization and helping others to visualize their data. This is my second time teaching the introduction to scientific visualization. I taught it last year as well, and so this year I'm going to give you an introduction to paraview, an if time permits. At the very end will look at how you can use Python with Paraview to create. Visualizations for those of you who work with para.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
New and want to incorporate some visualizations into your Python code. So what we're going to do today is going to give you a high level overview visualization. We're going to talk about what the purpose of visualization is. We'll look at some visualization applications will go through the data visualization process because visualization is a process. It's not just pretty pictures, it is a process he will walk through the scientific visualization process. Specifically what that is, and. Each step so that you can see what are the different things that you will need to do to visualize your data. And then we'll have our introduction to parody or introduction to scientific visualization featuring paraview, and that will be the hands on portion where you actually load up some datasets. Hopefully you have downloaded those datasets already. If not, I do have them available on a USB stick. You also can download them from the website if you haven't already done so. And then I'll provide you with some additional resources. So keep in mind the things that I'm going to show you today or the things that you're going to work through today is not even even tipping the surface of what pair of you can do. This is a very powerful package, and So what I want to do is provide you with enough information so that you will be able to at least take the first steps towards visualizing your own data. So we're going to work with a couple of datasets. One will be very simple just to get you familiar with the tool itself. And then we'll have what I'm calling a more complex data set so that you can apply those tools or those tasks that you want to to take a look at in the simple data set. And then I'll.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Value with some additional resources because like I said, this is a huge package, we are not going to be able to cover everything that it can do, but I want to give you at least a starting point. So for those of you who haven't already done so, the slides are available on the wiki. If you want to go ahead and take a look at those, if not, they will be of.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Alible afterwards as well. So you may recall few minutes ago I said that I would be asking you some questions and so this is my first question. What is the purpose of visualization? There's no right or wrong answer. But crickets not a right answer. So what do you think visualization is when you hear the word visualization, you're here for some reason. So why did? Why do you? Why did you want to see or come to this talk? Yes. Pretty pictures in my papers haha, OK, pretty pictures in the paper. Anybody else? What do you think? What do you think the purpose of visualization is? Besides the pretty pictures? To make sense of your data, OK. I'm sorry, analyze the data. Yes yes to all of those. However, I will argue.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
You with the first statement that the pretty pictures are the icing on the cake visualization itself, is a process of taking raw data. Oftentimes is complex. Oftentimes it's a lot of it, and actually taking it through a process of actually generating something from that data or a visual representation of that data to give you more insight as to what that data represents. So yes, it is all of those things that you mentioned.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So if the purpose of visualization is insight. What does insight lead to? What do you think? Besides pretty pictures. No right or wrong answers. Just what do you think? Find something interesting. OK OK excellent. Yes you were about to say. Knowledge understanding yes. Like I said this, there is no right.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
A wrong answers just gives me a feel for your knowledge of the process of visualization. So insight. We said that the purpose of visualization is insight. So insight leads to discovery.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Visualizing patterns overtime.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Spotting differences now. This is a very simple example. How many differences do you think you can see between those two pictures? And I know this is very humor me please. It's a simple example. I'm going to make a point shortly, but how many differences? Can you pick out between those two pictures? I hear 37. Is that your final answer? I hear 8. 7 again. OK.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
There we go. There are 10 differences and this was a very simple example. Now what if I asked you?

[319.0s - 348.0s]
How many sevens do you see in this image? That's a little tougher, right? How many do you think? Take a wild guess. I hear seven, I hear 30. How about? 10 Again is our magic number, so the purpose of this was to show you when you have something that is easily to take a look at this notice the differences. Perhaps visualization tool may not be is useful, but when you have the types of data that you all are working with or will be working with in your studies, you're going to need some tools that will help you to actually decipher what's in that data so that you don't spend your precious time trying to figure things out that can be done for you with the visualization tool. So insight leads to discovery.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
It leads to decision making. Oftentimes we have so much data that we don't know what to do with it. How many of you have heard of the Human Genome Project? Lots of data there. So much so again, they don't know what to do with it. So much so that some of it they have labeled. Keep in mind they haven't discarded it, but they've labeled it as junk because they don't know what to do with it and they don't know what's in it, but they've set it aside so that when they do know they will be able to go back and take a look at that data. So visualization allows us to make more informed decisions.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
It allows us to do analysis. I think someone mentioned that early.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
It allows us to explain different things so. I don't know if you can see this very well, but it allows us to visualize spatial relationships, so I've put the websites for each one of these figures. What do you think these two represent? If you haven't already gone to the website, the first row represents a store that has grown. Tremendously over the years, the 2nd row represents a second store that has gone wrong tremendously over the years. There is an actual animation of this at these websites. So what do you think those two are so well known chain of stores? Target this on the bottom. So that means Walmart, yes, so if you actually go to these websites you can see the first one doesn't show up very well here, but you will see from the first year. I think it was 1962 from the first stores open versus up to a thing for Walmart is 1980 on the targets 1980 and I think Walmart and Sam's maybe 2010. So just an example to show you of how visualization can show you or it can present. Visual spatial relationships that is.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Lists and data. So we said that visualization. The purpose of visualization is insight. Insight allows us to make decisions to take patterns, show spatial relationships. Can you think of any other reason why visualization might be important? So I home the tune from Jeopardy. Not very good, so you may not want to hear that. So why my what give me another reason why you think visualization might be important?

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Yes, and it helps us to take that data and to tell a story. So imagine if you have so much data that you want to do a simulation where it would impact, let's say the human race. You can't necessarily do certain types of simulations or experiments with humans, but with visualizations you can tell a story. You can simulate. You can do replicate what you think might happen, and so visualization allows us to do that.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
To tell that story, how many of you have seen this this visualization before? OK, a few hands. OK, so this is considered to be one of the best visualizations ever. Not so much by me, but by the people in the community for several different reasons. With this visualization, it encompasses so much information with just one image or one picture if you will. So let's take a look at it and see what it is. So this is about Napoleon's invasion of Moscow. So if you take a look at the graph and if you Google this, you will find this on the web. The thickness of these lines indicates the size of his army. At the beginning, when he started out and I'm going to paraphrase in light.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So bear with me when I'll get the details correct. He started out with an army size of 400 and 22,000 and like I said the thickness of the line indicate.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
The size of the army and as.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
We moved towards.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Their destination. The army size ended up in Moscow at 100,000. That's a significant deep decrease, something happened. Much like me moving from the South to Indiana, the winter happened. You have to plan for those things. If you don't then you feel it, and so they were not prepared for the winter here and so this was something else that impacted their journey. So aside from the winter, they decided he decided they're going to retreat so the dark path indicates the retreating path. Again, the thickness of the line indicates.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
The size of the army by the time they returned back from whence they started, they were down to 10,000. So this visualization alone encompases a lot of information, more so than me standing up here saying, OK, this is the size of the army when they started, and this is the size of the army when he ended. Hopefully by having this visual it will stick with you more so than just me standing up here and that's what you want when you visualize your own data you want to impart on it, to impress upon others who are looking at your work. Relationships that exist in the data, and those things that you are trying to point out and so.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So for that reason, because we're able to show several different things in one particular graph for one particular image, and not necessarily having one for temperature 1 for the path, everything is incompetent hearing. So this was one of the first visualizations, or one of the first visualization is recognized as one of the best statistical graphics ever. So you will see that. So my whenever you attend another visualization workshop. If you don't see this is not complete business, like a Seminole visualization that is always include.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
There so when we talked about so far we talked about visualization, the purpose of it is insight and insight allows us to do all of these things to explain, to analyze data to make discoveries. It helps us with more informed decision making and it helps us to tell a story.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So why is visualization important? So I want to go over a few of the applications. This is leading up to Scientifiche bids. By the way, we will get there. I just like to paint the story to give you to be thorough in the presentation of it.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Azatian, so there are different types of visualization applications as my obeahs. If you're looking at Bio data, the type of data that you have dictates the type of tool that you will use and so the tool that we're going to look at today is 4 cyantific videos. But there is nothing that says you can't take that tool and apply it to some other type of data totally up to you. But this is to give you a starting point, so if your data is biological, believe it or not, there is a. Conference for all types of things visualization. So if your data is biological, this biobus.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
If you have data that is simulated, not simulated, but large scale collections of data like social media data that falls under the heading of Infovis. Twitter.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Later, if you have geographic data that falls under the heading of Giovine.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Is and of course what we're going to look at today is side is so there is a conference IEEE this week which covers all things visualization. If you attend that conference at the end of it, you will be missed out because there's so much visualization going on there. So good thing, but it's a lot of information to take in.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So this is the focus of the workshop that we're going to do today, which is cyantific base, which is primarily concerned with 3D representation of complex datasets.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
So when do you think about visualizing your data? You all have some type of data. You all are working on projects. When do you think about visualizing your data? Yes. OK, as soon as you submit your. Resources running OK. Anyone else? When do you think about it? Before starting simulations, when you need a paper maybe. I'm sorry. Oh OK, in the back here. So I heard when I submit my simulation, before I run the job a batch job. Yes, when you want to explain your research with somebody, it's much easier to show an image, then try to explain it in words exactly. Often times.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Times. And I can say this because I know it's true. We don't think about visualization until the last minute until we need something to show others. We spend a lot of time on preparing to run experiments, writing code, and then maybe I'm going to a conference. Hey, I need a visualization and so oftentimes visualization is the last thing that you think about. But what I want to encourage you to do is to start thinking about visualization as a part of that process so that it isn't the last thing that you think about. So visualization as I mentioned before, is a process and So what I have on the screen here are seven steps that you actually go through when you visualize your data. Now some of you have seen the presentations on the last two days. Fantastic visualizations, believe it or not, you have gone through these steps. You just did not realize the steps that you were going through. And So what I want to do is to point out the steps that you go through. You have to obtain.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
The data you want to.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
By some type of structure for the data.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
You will filter it to get out that part of the data that you're interested in.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Some type of methods for deciding or discerning different types of data, mining patterns, or mathematical context where we apply.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Then you need to choose some type of model that you will use to represent that data of.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Course, your first visualization will not be your last, so this will be an iterative process. You will improve on the basic representations to make it more clear and more visually engaging.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
And then Lastly add some methods for manipulating that data. So how many of you have gone through some of these steps and visualizing your data? And I'm going to assume no hands mean all hands because you're here and you have data that you want to represent. So as you are actually going through the process of visualizing your data, you are going through some of these steps. They may not all be in this order, but at some point you will do some of these things in order to visually.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
As your data, so like I just said, your first visualization will not be your last. It is an iterative process, which is one of the reasons why I'm encouraging you to start thinking about visualizations early or sooner, so that you can get the type of visualizations that you're looking for, and at the quality.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
You're looking for as well. I mention that is about a process. Visualization is of taking that raw data an actually converting it into a form that is viewable, understandable to humans, and for some of you because you have so much data that you want to present, you want to present it in such a way that it does not overwhelm, and that's one of the key issues that you would want to work on, or to be able to present your data in that way, so there's no way for you to know, aside from the fact that you have the slides, some of you in front of you. What this sample data set looks like. They don't work. Slice oh. OK. I'll get them to you. So the net.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
What this represents is a small small data set. Sample size of this data set that represents the space shuttle and as the space booster that's on it. So there's no way for you to know that this represents, in a small sense, a piece of that data set, and what we're able to show in this visualization on your right is a number of things. Wind patterns we're going to look at how we can create those contour lines, the flow of the wind. The actual shuttle itself, so with visualization you can show many things with one.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Image or with one picture? So why do we care? Why should you care about visualization? And this may be the last question that I ask you. So why do you think we should care about visualization? Why do you care? I just want to get it right so that I'm presenting data that's actually real and not presenting an error in my visualization process or yes.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
We care because there's so much data is being generated. There is a demand for people with the knowledge of how to actually take that data and generate something from it so that it is insightful and that it doesn't overwhelm the amount of data that we are generating between now and 2020. It will grow by a factor of 44%, and that doesn't even include to scientific data, so there's a lot of data being generated. There will be an continued will continue to be a need for persons. To be able to to know and apply those skillsets as to.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
What to do with that data? When should you think about visualizing your data? I say as soon as possible and for the reasons that I've mentioned before hand is that you want to think about what type of resources are you going to need. If you're generating large amounts of data, do you need high performance resources? Can you actually generate the visualizations on the laptops that you have now? So if you think about those things, or think about the type of data and the amount of data that you will be generating, this will help you in the process of actually creating. In planning for the different types of visualizations that you will create, so you should start as early as possible.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
And one way to do that when I'm doing is to encourage undergraduates to consider visualization as well.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
So visualization is a tool that will take us forward from the traditional output of high performance computing that we are used to into a visual medium that allows researchers to collaborate and elaborate on the findings that they've got. So we're going beyond just a simple pie chart going beyond the simple line chart to be able to actually generate visualizations that are insightful and informative at the.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Same time, so we're going to look at scientific visualization, which is primarily concerned with visualizing 3 dimensional data. Often times it could be architectural. It could be biological, could be any number of things.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Where the emphasis is on realistic renderings of volumes and surfaces, different types of dynamic time components that you can incorporate in there.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
So what do you think is missing from this pipeline? So this is our scientific visualization pipeline. This is a process that you go through in the data changes that occur as you go through this process. So just looking at this. What do you think is missing? Aside from starting early. What do you think is missing? For all of your computer scientists out there.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
So feedback loop. Well, this is an iterative process, an eye test.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
This often is that your first visualization will not be your last visualization. So what I want to do is to walk you through. This process will go back. We're going to walk through this process and take a look at what happens to the data as you move through these steps. So the first step. Is acquiring data so data could be any number of things that could be simulated. It could be images, it could be numerical, some observed phenomenon and I'm showing some examples of some different types of data on your right.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
After the data is acquired, we want to analyze it, filter it or reformat it. We need to get it into some type of format to where it can be recognizable by the application of the program that you're going to use so that you can actually get it into that program and generate some some visualizations from it. This could mean removing noise if you have noisy data. How are you going to handle missing data? These are all things that you have to consider, or you should consider as you are actually working your way through. The visualization process.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
The next step is to apply some type of cyantific visualization techniques. How do we convert that wrong information into something that's more understandable, and so this is visually extracting meaning from the data set using various techniques.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Oftentimes this techniques will include some of the ones that I've listed at the bottom of the screen, and we will actually use some of these or apply some of these techniques to the datasets that we're going to use in the hands on portion of this this workshop. So any visualization tool that you will find you will use should have these basic techniques as part of their package. If they are not in that package, then you probably do not have a complete package because these are standard techniques that are often used. So you should be able to, once you are familiar with them, pick up any type of visualization application and see any of these tools that are included and be able to actually generate a visualization from it.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Or using it, the next thing we want to do is the map it into some type of geometry you have to give us some type of form. You know what is it going to look like in? Are they scalars on the vectors or is it one D2D? Is it a mesh? Those types of things? So you have to map it to some type of geometry so that you will know what to expect once you actually visualize it.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Shape that it's going to take. The next thing is to render. We've done all of this with the application. Now you want to see what it looks like. Again, this is an iterative process. Where is iteration and refinement, iteration and refinement? So that's one thing that you'll go through as you're visualizing the.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Data. The last step is to view the results and So what I provided is some output from paraboot from some other visualizations that have been created. Just to give you an idea of the different types of visualizations that can be created using paraview. Again, keep in mind there are more different types of things that we can do with paraview. Then what we're going to cover today, but.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
Hopefully this will Pique your interest enough to want to learn more about it. So large data produced by large simulations produce a large visualization results in a requirement. And require large visualization resources, so we're here talking about high performance computing resources. Just wanted to show you that you can get up many of you already know this now. The size of your data set can grow enormously, so if you start out with a TB size of data as you are walking through that visualization process, you're increasing your data. Set the size of it because you are creating smaller datasets from the original data set, but you're not discarding the first one, so that within itself, say it says. You're going to need storage. You're going to need memory. You're going to need all these things that will help you to generate the type of visualizations that you would like to generate and be interactive as well. Because interactivity with visualizations is like the next step, creating a pretty picture is nice. It's good, but the next step that you want to be able to do is allow your user to be able to interact with that data.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
With the visualization. So when I look at Paraview, which is built on the visualization toolkit BTK in his open source, which means as you all know is free, which is good, particularly for students, you don't have to worry about purchasing software. It's available on several different platforms. There's lots of features, a collection of C++ libraries you can't in this leverage by many applications, different applications. There's a whole host of different types of things that is useful for an we're going to.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
To look at some of those today. So Paraview is an end user application with support for parallel data archiving, parallel rendering, parallel processing. Seems like all things parallel in terms of helping you enabling you to actually generate visualizations of large datasets.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
So are there any questions so far? Take silence to me, no. OK.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
So paraview? Have you multiplatform is a mature rich interface. So how many of you have used paraview before? OK. Alright good.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
So bear with me. For those of you who have is open source, I provided the web link so you can take a look at it if you haven't already downloaded it. This would be a good time to do that. We're working with version 5.0 for this workshop. This primary contributors are Kitware Sandia National Labs. National Lab and the Army Research Laboratory. So they.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
This within itself lets you know that there is a big community of users out there, so as you're using paraview beyond this summer school, if you have questions, if you are new to paraview an you run into some issue. Typically my experience has been I posted questions to the user group and they have been very quick to respond so don't feel like you are out there by yourself. Typically if you just started to use the application whatever issue you're running into, someone else is already. Either had that issue and resolved it, and so they could be very useful in helping you to resolve it as well. So what I want to do is to take a few minutes to just talk about the different types of data types that are supported through paraview. You have your uniform rectilinear grid, which is typically for image data, and that's where your grid is a regular structure. All boxes or sales are the same size and shape, and I provided is an example of what a uniform rectilinear grid image might look like in the lower right hand corner.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
If your data set has some curvature features, there is a curvilinear, structured grid that you can use where it is regularly gridded. Gridded mesh shaping function that is applied to your data, and as you can see in the lower right corner compared to the first image, first picture. This one does have some curvature to the image of the output. That is this.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
What if you have an unstructured grid? Many of you will be working with your own data where you are defining what that data looks like, and so with Parent View allows you to do is to work with unstretched unstructured grids and oftentimes if you don't see a reader for your data, you can write code. You can write a reader specifically for your code for your data in order for it to recognize it, and again in the lower right corner I provided a sample output from what an unstructured grid. Dataset you might look like.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
These examples that I've shown so far what might be considered to be more complicated, but I wanted to let you know that it also does simple data as well. So if you have point data or just polygonal data, or just images, all different types of data formats on paraview will recognize so that it gives you that.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
Ability to be able to look at all different types of data datasets be supported. Visualization algorithms are listed here with more. Like I said, this is just tip of the iceberg. If that just to give you an idea of the different types of things or algorithms that can be applied using paraview.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
It supports Python scriptable. Python is saves your animations derived variables. Some of you will be creating your own variables that you use in order to visualize your data.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
Just to show you the different types of file formats, this may not seem interesting right now, but as you are working with your own data sometimes you will come across some formats that may not be considered universal. There is an extensive list this provided of the different types of file formats that VTK I mean parody will recognize. If it does not recognize your type your data type, then you can again either put it into VTK file format and we'll talk about how to get your data into paraview as a part of the workshop. They will talk about shortly or again. Like I said, you can write a reader to read your data.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
So the visualization pipeline again allows you to create different features of filters to produce different datasets, so you can extract information. You can apply glyphs, vector arrows you can give or provide different types of.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
Representations of the data. This is a demonstration of weather data, and in this particular visualization we're looking at clouds can be represented when it can be represented. Temperature can be represented. This is an example of a rectilinear grid, and so is showing you that you can include multiple variables in one visualization.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
So I have three basic steps that we're going to go through is that you have to read in the data we're going to filter the data and then render. Those are the three processes that we're going to step through as we work through the hands-on session. So read, filter, render. Those are the three things that we're going to do.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
Any questions so far? So I've used visit quite a bit. What's it? It sounds pretty similar. It is. Do you know if there's like what the difference between visits in Berwick pair Viewer? 'cause? It seems like they're both used by similar agencies and large scale visualization. Yeah, that's a good question. I always get asked what's the difference between parenting and visit. Basically, it boils down to which one would you like to use best. They both basically have the same features and functions. Visit, however, is my understanding was developed to handle large datasets. So if you have. Enormous amounts of data, sometimes paraview, will like bomb out at a certain point visit. Supposedly you should be able to handle larger datasets with that. Both of them had are built on the BTK background, so if you're familiar with one, you should be able to navigate and use all the others as well. I did have a slide I may have taken it out when I did like a comparison and you can find this on the web as well where it shows you the features that both of them offer an it lets you know which one has that feature or not, but they both both. You can do the same thing with both of them. It gets down to the point of how big or how large your data set is as to which one you might want to use.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
OK. If we don't have anymore questions, we're going to start with the hands on session. So has everyone downloaded paraview or you have it installed on your laptops and do you have the data sets? OK, so you can either download the datasets from this web link or I do have USB drives. For those of you who may want to do that as well. So the challenge with any workshop is to have a datasets or datasets that are interesting enough to hold your interests, but small enough so that you can actually run them and render them on your laptop. So we're going to start out with a very simple data set just so just to get you familiar with paraview. For those of you who have not worked with Paraview before. Then we will work with a little bit more complicated data set.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
So hopefully if you downloaded the datasets, you should see these files wrecked, grid two dot BTK head SQ dot VTi and notice the different file extensions which again speaks to the different types of files that BTK will recognize and work with. And then we have what I'm calling a sample data file and what I want to do is to give you the tools to create your own data file to load your own data into paraview. I've been to a number of workshops where. While I'm there, everything makes sense and then I get home and I can't figure out how to get my data into a format in which the program can read it. So this granite will be a very simple file, but the purpose is to give you an idea as to what the first step should be. Choice creating a file of your own with your own datasets, so hopefully everyone has these data, have the data downloaded and.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
Will start looking at that. So what we're going to do is we're going to load the data we're going to extract some isosurfaces from the data we're going to create some contours, clips, slices, do all of these things that we mentioned before as a part of the visualization process, and then hopefully, if time permits, we'll look at maybe doing some Python scripting. It is in the slides and I will make sure that you have the full version of the slides by the end of today today. So no further ado.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
For those of you who have not worked with her, if you want to point out a few things on the user interface, and so if you open up paraview Now because this is a part of the work hands-on piece I have worked through these examples and I encourage you to do so as well, But if you have questions at anytime, please let me know. So when you open up her view, you'll see your menu and your toolbars at the top. There's something called a pipeline browser. Remember, we've just gone through the visualization scientific visualization pipeline. The pipeline browser is going to be useful because it is going to show you the order in which you are creating your different visualizations or the output from the filters that we're going to create. So everything that you create an object will appear in the pipeline browser. This will be useful also when you're kind of tinkering or exploring. The data set. Sometimes you stumble upon things when you don't expect too, and then you don't know how you got there. The pipeline browser will show you the path that you took in order to create the visualization that you see, so that would be very useful. You have something called an object inspector. This is where you're going to set the properties or the settings for the different output that you're going to create. And then Lastly you have your 3D viewer, which is where the renderings will be presented or displayed.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
So if you will go ahead and open up wrecked grid two dot VTK, hopefully you remember where you downloaded it onto your desktop. So we want to find that. And because I know that many of you or everyone learns in different pace or you want to go at a different pace, I try to provide the steps for each of the tasks that we're going to do. So if you want to go ahead, you can just be aware that I do encourage you to explore the different options or different features. Just be aware that. If you select different options and I chose, then it looks slightly different than what you're going to see on on the screen here. So if you locate wrecked grid two dot VTK. Click on file, open and then select it and click OK and what you should see is a new object in the pipeline browser with the name of the file and so this is your source file. Everything that we're going to do, we're going to extract information or apply a filter to some form of this file that's in your pipeline browser. Psycho

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
OK, and what you should see is the apply button has now become active. In order to see the output from the filters that were going to apply, you must click apply. Otherwise, Paravi will sit there and wait for you to do so. So once you do that, you should see.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
In bounding box in the 3D window. What do we need?

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
You are. So I wanted to take a look at let you see when a simple or sample rectilinear grid file might look like, and this is just to give you an idea of the file format. This is what's called a VTK data simple data file format. It is readable. You can see how to actually put the data coordinates into a specific areas. This is just to give you an idea of what the file looks when a BTK filing.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
Right? So now we're going to create some isosurfaces. And the technique that uses a contour that's the filter that we're going to apply, and it extracts the points occurs or services where a scalar field is equal to a user defined value.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
So what I'd like for you to do is make sure that you are wet. Grid to object is selected and then we want to apply a filter. So we want to go to filters common and then contour.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
Once you do that, you should see a couple of things a new object has appeared in the pipeline browser and you should see that there is a value one value in the value range box.

[2523.0s - 2552.0s]
When I like for you to do is to click on that value and then.

[2552.0s - 2581.0s]
And we want to delete it.

[2581.0s - 2610.0s]
There is some value range box that's right below the - Here I want you to click on that as well. And that's going to.

[2610.0s - 2639.0s]
Show you the range of values that's in that data set. So at this point I just took the default values. You of course can set any of those values there and set what step that you want to use as well. This.

[2639.0s - 2668.0s]
Is going to show you what is actually in that that what that data looks like with Paraview has interpreted that data to look like. So what you should do is.

[2668.0s - 2697.0s]
Click on OK. And you should notice that your range of values have increased to the range that you actually put in on the previous step. In order to see anything.

[2697.0s - 2726.0s]
Where you have to click OK or apply and.

[2726.0s - 2755.0s]
By doing that you will see that this particular data set the 3D rendering of it has been displayed in the viewer. So I encourage you to explore this data set rotated around, see what it looks like and we're going to apply some additional fees.

[2755.0s - 2784.0s]
Answers to that as well.

[2784.0s - 2813.0s]
So the first step we want to do is click on the. Properties tab. If you don't see anything there.

[2813.0s - 2842.0s]
In the section where it says coloring, we want to set that two vectors.

[2842.0s - 2871.0s]
And what you should see is that now the 3D viewer, the output, the rendering in the 3D viewer, has some color replacement applied to the output there.

[2871.0s - 2900.0s]
Again, if at some point once the slides are available to you and you want to know how to go through this process after each little section, I've listed the entire pipeline or steps that we've gone through that will enable you to actually go directly to that page to figure out what you would need to do to apply it, as opposed to having to step through step by step to it.

[2900.0s - 2929.0s]
For each one of them. So now what we're going to do? We have our data set we want to clip this data set. We want to see what it looks like by intersecting or clip intersects the geometry with the half space. The effect of this is to remove all but the geometry on one side of the user defined plane, so this may become useful if you have a very large data set and you just want to look at a part of it, not the entire data set. And So what? This will allow you to do is to position your plane and actually clip it so that you can see what it looks.

[2929.0s - 2958.0s]
Like so make sure that contour one object in your pipeline browser is selected and just for orientation I've selected the plus Y direction. You don't have to, but the toolbars across the icons across the toolbar shows you the different axes that you can Orient your data set by. I chose the plus Y view.

[2958.0s - 2987.0s]
And what we're going to do is we're going to create a. A clipping plane.

[2987.0s - 3016.0s]
So we're going to go.

[3016.0s - 3045.0s]
2.

[3045.0s - 3074.0s]
Filters.

[3074.0s - 3103.0s]
Comment.

[3103.0s - 3132.0s]
And then clip. This is where we went before for Contour, but this time we're going to create a clip of that data.

[3132.0s - 3161.0s]
And when you do that, you should see a clipping plane. If you don't see the clipping plane then click on this little button that says properties Clip and then that should show you the plane in which you're going to adjust.

[3161.0s - 3190.0s]
Typically what I like to do is to rotate it so that the error head points out at me, but you can position your clipping plane wherever you choose once you're done. Then click oh click. Click OK and you should see that the.

[3190.0s - 3219.0s]
Dataset has been clipped, so I just grabbed a few screenshots so that you can see how to rotate the clipping plane. So you position your mouse or hover over the Arrowhead and it will change to read. Press the mouse button, keep it pressed and just rotate it wherever you want it to be positioned in the data set itself, and then once you're done, click the apply button and what that will do is it will clip it. And what you will see is on one side of the clipping plane on the right side of the screen. You can see that it has been clipped. So you can actually look inside of it.

[3219.0s - 3248.0s]
So now what happens if you say I didn't want that side? I wanted the other side. Do I have to go through the entire process? Recreating or repositioning the clipping plane? There is a handy feature that says inside out, which is located on the left side of the screen. On that panel, if you put if you check that and then click OK, what it will?

[3248.0s - 3277.0s]
Do is it will switch the planes for you and so you don't have to it literally. Makes it inside out. You don't have to go through that process if in fact your plane is where you want it to be. So that's a nifty little feature to have where you don't have to.

[3277.0s - 3306.0s]
Think about what did I do in order to to get to that point again. Summary of steps. So at some point, if you want to go back to this, you have all of the steps that we've gone through to actually clip. The the data.

[3306.0s - 3335.0s]
So we clipped it. We've created a contour, we clipped it. What if we just want a little slice of the data? We don't want to look at the entire thing, maybe just want a little piece of it. So there is a filter called slice which intersects the geometry with the plane and the effect is similar to clipping except for all that remains. Are the contour of the outline of the feature that you're looking at, so that's what we're going to do now. We're going to see.

[3335.0s - 3364.0s]
Slice through this data set So what you want to do is to make sure that you should have three objects in your pipeline browser. An notice there is something that little icon that looks like an I to the right to the left of each of those objects. That allows you to toggle on and off the visibility of those particular output of that particular output. So if you want to sing the clip, then you make sure that the eye is active or dark color is not grayed out. If you don't want to see the contour. Click on it and make sure that it is grayed out and you won't see it in the viewer, but it's still there and so this gives you the opportunity to layer your output in a sense. So if you have several different types of filters that you've run, maybe you only want to see one or two of them. You can do this using this feature, making it visible or not visible. So what we want to do right now is make sure that your wrecked grid two objects in clip, one object is visible. The contour one object should not be at this point. Otherwise your output will look slightly different from what we're going to do here, so Contour one should not be visible for the next task.

[3364.0s - 3393.0s]
OK, so now what we want to do is you want to select clip one. And then. Click on filters common and then slice. So we want to select clip one, which means make sure it's highlighted in blue. Go to filters common and then slice.

[3393.0s - 3422.0s]
And what you should see is another object in the pipeline browser. And you should see another plane this time. This is a slicing plane, so we're going to do the same thing that we did before. Is you hover over the error head until it changes the color to red. Using the mouse, rotate that clipping plane to whatever position you want to put it in, and then once you're satisfied with that then you can clip it. Also keep in mind you're not limited to just rotating it, you can move that plane forward or backwards. You can position it wherever you want it to be in that particular data set, and then once you're done, or you're happy with.

[3422.0s - 3451.0s]
It is what you want to do is to click apply because nothing is exit taken into effect until you actually tell paraview to apply the changes that you indicated there.

[3451.0s - 3480.0s]
And So what I've done is I've taken some snapshots and hopefully you have something that looks similar to this. Again, like I said, you can move that plane. You can rotate it around, you can move it to wherever you feel. That's where you want to get the actual slice, and remember this is a slice which means this is like a slice of cake. It's a thin piece of the actual data set, and so you're able to see more detail. The outline of a structure that's there.

[3480.0s - 3509.0s]
So what did we do? We clipped a service, or we selected clip. We selected a filter and selected common and then slice and then apply. So again if at some point we have a slide you want to come back to, how do I create a slice? All of this information is on one slide or you can work through.

[3509.0s - 3538.0s]
The data set again if you choose to, so remember we said we needed to do with all of the. Applications or the filters that we're going to be applying the process is to read in the data into paraview, which we've done. Create or apply some filters which we've done and then renter render that information in the viewer, which is what we've done as well.

[3538.0s - 3567.0s]
So. That was the warm up. So now we're going to look at a more complicated, more interesting datasets. So what I'd like for you to do. First of all.

[3567.0s - 3596.0s]
Any questions before we go on to the next data set? I like for you to do is to delete. All of the objects that you have in your pipeline browser and you can do this by using pressing down the control button and selecting multiple objects and doing a delete. Or you can delete them one by one, but once you're done you should have a screen that looks like one that's on your right where there are no objects in the pipeline browser.

[3596.0s - 3625.0s]
So what I want you to do is to locate her desk you. Got VTi and this is the next data set that we're going to look at. And we're going to apply these similar types of filters to this data set in order to gain more insight as to what that data represents.

[3625.0s - 3654.0s]
So open up that file and click apply and again once you do that, you should see your new object in the pipeline browser. When you click apply.

[3654.0s - 3683.0s]
Now you'll get your bounding box again in the window.

[3683.0s - 3712.0s]
So I want you to apply a contour. So that's filter common contour.

[3712.0s - 3741.0s]
Again, remember your contour extracts the points the curves or services were a scalar field is equal to a user defined value and this becomes very useful because oftentimes you will know what you're looking for in your data and you'll know what those values represent, and you may just want to extract a particular value as opposed to looking at the entire data set so a contour would be the type of.

[3741.0s - 3770.0s]
Filter that you would apply. So once you created the contour you should see something that says Contour one as you are going through and you're creating these different filters, you are not held by the default names that are listed for each of the objects. You can name them accordingly to fit the data or the type of filter that you applied.

[3770.0s - 3799.0s]
What you should have seen again, you have one value. In the value range. When I want you to do is again, we're going to play around with this with the numbers here to see what is actually inside that data, so we know that the minimum value is zero and the maximum value is 4095, and in this case is only one value that's showing, so that's the only.

[3799.0s - 3828.0s]
Value that will be shown or represented in the 3D viewer, so I don't want you to do is click on apply.

[3828.0s - 3857.0s]
And you should see something that looks like this. So if you don't see the skull. Then what you should do is make sure that the eye next to that object in the browser is actually clicked to make it viewable. And again, this allows you to toggle between the two, the two states.

[3857.0s - 3886.0s]
So take a moment, if you will. Hopefully you have this. Everyone is following along. Have this rendering in your viewer. No. OK, well if you do take a moment to explore the data set rotated around, take a look at it and see. Look at it from different sides, different views because we're going to do the same thing that we did with that simple data set and that is slice contour. Create some contours and maybe clip it, slice it as well.

[3886.0s - 3915.0s]
Take us a moment to take a look at different orientations of the data at some point. Maybe you'll need to reorient yourself with the position of the data and this just gives you some different views on how to do that and what.

[3915.0s - 3944.0s]
Might look like so you should be here if you have the data set, you should have two objects in the pipeline browser, one value showing in the value range an you should have a representation of that value or that all the data points that exist in the data set that corresponds to that value showing in the 3D viewer.

[3944.0s - 3973.0s]
So now we're going to see what can we extract out of his out of this. So I want you to select I want you to delete that one value that's in the value range and you'll see there are column buttons. There's a plus to add minus to take away and then right below that is the value range. So what I want you to do is to delete that one value that's shown.

[3973.0s - 4002.0s]
There. And then click on the button at the bottom right below that which is to add a value range and what we're going to do is we're going to play around with these values, so for those of you who are following along and you have your at this point you read in the data file and you see the minimum value is 0. The Max is 4095 and there is a step of 10. What do you think will happen if we change those values? I think you'll see something different. So we want to play around with it to see what else might be in this data set.

[4002.0s - 4031.0s]
That we can take a look at. So. Feel free to put in some values. Make sure that the the minimum value isn't less than zero and the maximum value is not greater than 4095 and you can also play around with the step as well. So I'm going to give for those of you who follow along, give me an opportunity to just put in some values, see what type of output that you get. Remember that once you do that, you have to click the OK button or apply.

[4031.0s - 4060.0s]
In order to see what those values are. So now for me when I put in, I just took the default. And so you can see a range of values if you selected default, you'll see this if you selected some what some other things you see different values, But the idea is is to be able to play around with the different values. Are there so that you can extract different things from the data set and actually show it.

[4060.0s - 4089.0s]
Inside the renderer. So there anyone put in anything different other than the default values. Are we vegetating? OK, smiles means that you aren't alright, so if you put in something different you went to, took the defaults, then you're going to see.

[4089.0s - 4118.0s]
I put up, but here we have our contour. Filter there.

[4118.0s - 4147.0s]
Once you click apply. What you will see is not only the.

[4147.0s - 4176.0s]
Skull. Now we have some skin on this data is on this this call that we had before and so depending on the resources that you have available on.

[4176.0s - 4205.0s]
Our computers this may or may not take a while to render. In this case you can see what it looks like. Again, I encourage you to rotate the data set, see what it looks like on the inside from different views. On the other side here, if you click on the information tab, that tells you a little bit more information about the data set itself, how many sales, how many points, mountain memory that's use, a lot of information that may be useful going forward.

[4205.0s - 4234.0s]
So you should be here. You should be if you're following along, you should have two objects in your pipeline browser that would be head SQ da VTi which is a source file. We've created a contour an remember you can rename these filter names as you see fit to match your data that you're working with. Also remember that surface is often called an isosurface, so contours is sometimes used interchangeable with isosurface. And so this is what you should see, or some likeness of this. If you are working along with the data set.

[4234.0s - 4263.0s]
So now. For those of you who are following along. I put in out some values here for you to play around with to see what you might get if you change those value ranges to something different, and so each one of these from each set of values that I put in. Will give you something different. So for example, I think the second entry if you go from 2500 to 3500, what you will get is just the teeth in the roots of the teeth and not the rest of the information that's in that in that data set. So play around with that for a moment. You don't have to use these particular values, well that's these are just some things that give you some interesting things out of the data set for you to view and to see what's going on, and this allows you again. If you're interested in just a part of the data set and not the entire data set, setting those value ranges to different ranges will allow you to pull out or extract just that part that you're interested in. So if you will take a moment to do that. You will find that actually playing around with this data set that there is a lot of interesting characteristics in the data and remember the purpose of visualization is insight, and so by setting the different ranges and allows you to extract that information without overwhelming and so if there is an instance where you only want to show a certain part of your data, not all of it. This would be the way to do that to actually provide it that you know the range of values that you want to display.

[4263.0s - 4292.0s]
So in this case. What we want to do now if you follow along, just played around with it to see what you can do. We want to reset or go back to where we were so that we can go on to the next step of this in the next phase. So what I want you to do is to click this red button. In the section that says value range and that will delete all of the values. Otherwise you would have to do the one by one. So I would say do that, clear all the values, click OK and then click apply and what you should.

[4292.0s - 4321.0s]
Should do is bring you back to the original.

[4321.0s - 4350.0s]
Wow. Dataset. Actually, we're going to go back one step after you've deleted all of the values, click on the value range button. And what that is going to give you is, I think your default setting.

[4350.0s - 4379.0s]
And then give you the maximum an as before 0 to 4095 and so this is where you should be if you're following along. So we've gone through. We played around with the different values in the data set to extract out some interesting features of the data and so now we're back where we started, which is with the original.

[4379.0s - 4408.0s]
Dataset shown. In that in the 3D window. So we've created a contour we have. Sliced it so now we're going to create a clip and So what? Remember, a clip intersecting geometry with a half space? So we're going to follow.

[4408.0s - 4437.0s]
Same steps that we did before with that small simple data set. You want to make sure that you click on or select Contour one annual pipeline browser and then go through the process of filters, comment and then clip again. You will get a clipping plane so you do the same thing that you did before you're going to position the plane where you want the clip to occur.

[4437.0s - 4466.0s]
Once you are satisfied with where it is, then you will click apply. Remember, you can not only rotate the clipping plane, but you can move it as well to to position it where you want the clip to occur. So you should see something like this if you don't see the clipping plane then click on this little button that says properties and it should have the name of the filter that you just supplied and in this case is clip in parentheses so that you know that once you click on that it should make it visible in the 3D viewer.

[4466.0s - 4495.0s]
Again, just rotating it around, I just grab the snapshot so that you can see. Also take note of the different properties that are set by default. You can change any of these at anytime just depending upon what you want to see or what the output that you're looking for. So remember your inspect object Inspector is where.

[4495.0s - 4524.0s]
You would set those properties. Again, I like to rotate my plane so that the arrow is pointing out at me, but you can position it whenever you feel comfortable or whatever you want to to get an interesting view of what the output might.

[4524.0s - 4553.0s]
Like remember? Paraview does nothing until you tell it to apply. So after you have positioned your plane, you click the apply button.

[4553.0s - 4582.0s]
And you should see. It has been clipped now because of the positioning of the plane where I had. Why position the plane in this example, you can see that some of the years apart of the ears have been clipped. Yours might look different. Like I said, depending on where you actually put your clipping plane, but.

[4582.0s - 4611.0s]
I took the Liberty, rotating this around and grabbing some snapshots so you can see what it looks like. He wants you. You've actually clipped it, and so you remember if in fact this is not the side of the plane that you were interested in and you want it the other side, you would just click the inside out check box in that would actually flip it around.

[4611.0s - 4640.0s]
For you as well. And then click apply and you should be able to see that. Any quest?

[4640.0s - 4669.0s]
So far. OK, so now if this property was set to the inside out property was set to 0 then the clip filter would return that portion that lies on the outside. If it was set to 1 then it will return the opposite side or the the other side that lies on the inside. So that's just a toggle between one one view and the other and you can see in this particular rendering, not only do we have the skin, but on this particular snapshot. We can see some more detail. We can see that there is hair along the back of the head. Little bit more detail on the ear, so you can also use the value.

[4669.0s - 4698.0s]
Trains to extract with information that you may be looking for. Again, you can hide your plots, or you can make them viewable by making sure that the little eye is selected or unselected. So what we want to do is select Contour one.

[4698.0s - 4727.0s]
For this. And now we're going to do a slice. So you should have three objects. In your pipeline browser. We want to select control one and then select filters common and then slice.

[4727.0s - 4756.0s]
Just like before, we want to rotate the slicing plane, position it where you want it to be, and then you want to click apply.

[4756.0s - 4785.0s]
Again, here are some snapshots that I took screenshots so that you can see the rotation here, but this time we're only getting a slide.

[4785.0s - 4814.0s]
Yes, we're not getting a clip, and So what we would expect to see is just the outlines of the different features in that particular.

[4814.0s - 4843.0s]
So when you click on apply in this case, that's what you get. Are the outlines of those features in that data set. So remember as slice intersects the geometry with the plane, the effect is similar to a clip and but the thing that remains, or the parts that remains is only the geometry where the plane is located, and again you can move this. You can rotate it around if you move your plane at after you've actually generated your rendering. If you move it, just click apply again and it will update it for you so you can see where in fact that.

[4843.0s - 4872.0s]
Yes. So this is what we've done. Remember I? I said that if you are working with your data sometimes you may stumble upon an output that you like, but you're not sure as to how you got there. That's what the purpose of the pipeline browser is or does. So we started out with the initial file, which is the source file head SQWTI. From that we created a contour. The output from the contour was used as input for the next steps which were eclipse. Anna Slice so just by looking at this typically you will have more than the objects that are shown in this pipeline browser. So just by looking at it and you can follow your way back through to figure out what did I do in order to generate a particular output. Or maybe you want to go back to a particular output and update it or edit it. This would be the way that you would do that or it would allow you to.

[4872.0s - 4901.0s]
Go back through. And do that so if we wanted to combine. Maybe this the clip and the slice at different views at different times? That's what this would. It would enable you to do so you can use the toggle on and off feature that will allow you to show maybe two filters at one time, one that overlays another, and it kind of gives you that feature of seeing more detail of 1 particular or specific aspects of the data that allows you to do that, particularly with medical data if you want to overlay organs with bone, this would be a great way to do that with these filters that you created. And you can show certain wines at certain times depending upon who your audience is and what you're trying to portray to the user or to the person that you're.

[4901.0s - 4930.0s]
You're presenting to. So we have our contour. We have our clip. We have our slice. All of these things are shown in the pipeline browser. We have the output that's shown in the 3D viewer.

[4930.0s - 4959.0s]
You've done all of this work, and so now you want to be able to save your data. There's nothing worse than working along time and something happens and you lost your input or you lost the data that you've you've actually created. So Paraview gives you lots of features or lots of options for actually saving your data, and so we're going to talk about those.

[4959.0s - 4988.0s]
Just to give you an idea of what you can do. So you can save your state. And by saving the state you can save the state of the visualization pipeline itself. So that includes all of the pipeline modules, all the views, all the layouts and other properties. You can either save the state itself or the application state, or just the state. You can, in paraview you can save the state using file safe state. In the menu option. You can also load different different states as well. So if for whatever reason you're unable to complete the data set that you're working on, you can save that state that you're in and return back to it at a later time.

[4988.0s - 5017.0s]
You can also save your data. Sometimes you may not want to save the state. All you want to save is the output of the datasets and the different outputs from those filters that you generated, and so you can do that as well.

[5017.0s - 5046.0s]
You can save a screenshot. Someone mentioned that you think about visualization when it's time to create a pretty picture or want to put visualization in your paper that you're working on. Or maybe a report. Maybe you don't need all the other features that you can save it as. This is an opportunity to do that or way to do that. In saving screenshots you can play around with the resolution, so you could actually get higher resolution in the images that you save, in which you can see on your screen. So apparently allows you to do that as well. There's some features or some settings. That you can set. That will allow you to get a higher resolution file output than what you actually put in.

[5046.0s - 5075.0s]
So are there any questions on anything that we talked about so far? Does everybody have the datasets that we've been working with? OK, So what we want to do is to delete again the objects that you have in the pipeline browser. So that we can start with a clean slate again, you can select multiple objects using the control key and then press the delete or select delete to delete nodes.

[5075.0s - 5104.0s]
I mentioned before that one of the things that has been a challenge for me when I first started in visualization was actually getting my data into VTK file format. I'm going to workshops. Everything seems crystal clear while I'm there because I have someone there to help me to get my data into the format that it needs to be in. However, after returning home or back to my lab, I struggled with that and So what I wanted to do was to give you an opportunity to create a simple file to let you see what that process is, so that will help you in preparing your own data to be read into. VTK so those sample files, and hopefully you download it with the other data. Those are the files that we.

[5104.0s - 5133.0s]
Going to take a look at. So I mention earlier the different types of data formats that Paraview recognizes, and so I'm listing that some of them again so that you can see I provided the URL to the VTK file format. If you anyone is more interested in the specifics of any part of the VTK file format. For later.

[5133.0s - 5162.0s]
Yes, so if you take a look at. A simple legacy file format. You'll see that there's some header information. That must be included in your simple in your BTK file format. So it can even be asking or binary and you have to state that. It supports all types of BTK Rea types, and it's the easiest for data conversion. So in part one in there numbered on the right side of the screen you have the header information. In Part 2 you have real comment. In Line 3, this is where you specify if it's ASCII or binary. And Part 4 you have to tell it the data, the data set type. The word data set is a reserved word much like ASCII, an data point and sale data appoint data in cell data, and then the last part of that is where you put in the data attributes, and so we're going to look at what that might look like if you were to go through the process of actually creating a data file.

[5162.0s - 5191.0s]
So this was an example that I gave to my class where they were given the charge of creating a simple simulated temperature file where they had 101 hundred 100 grid in which they simulated temperature values.

[5191.0s - 5220.0s]
We're going to take those values and actually create a sample data file. NBT K. So on your left you'll see in blue. This is the actual data that they typed in the code that they typed in an on your right you'll see the information that corresponds to the data file itself. The header information, so. Rowan, we put in a comment that says VTK data file version 2.0. Our comment description of it is a rectilinear grid of temperature values. Remember we have to state if it's ASCII or binary. In this case, is going to be asking the next line. We're describing the grid. It is a rectilinear grid, and so that's what we type in.

[5220.0s - 5249.0s]
The following line we have to tell it the dimensions and so remember I said it's a 100 by 100 grid, but what you see in the dimensions line here is 100 one 101 although we do not have a Z coordinate, it has to have a placeholder for it and so we put the one there as a placeholder for the Z coordinate. Below that we have to tell it the X coordinates. What type of cord and how many they are. And then we list those those values in there and so you'll see we have X coordinates, Y coordinates and then Z coordinates. We say that there is 1 value, whether it's a 0 because we do not have values for the Z coordinates. This is a 2 dimensional representation of the grid. So everything that's in blue. Is what was typed in by the students or prepared by the students.

[5249.0s - 5278.0s]
Our next step then, is to enter the point data information and so the point data is basically your ex dimension multiplied by the Y dimension multiplied by your Z dimension. And This is why in particular up above we have 001 because if we multiply if it was zero, of course that would mean it would imply that there were no point data values there. So in this case we have scalers temperature float. We have our look up table as our default lookup table that comes with it.

[5278.0s - 5307.0s]
And then we put in these values for the look up tables. So once we gather all of this information into a single file and save it as a dot VTK file.

[5307.0s - 5336.0s]
Should be able to read that file or load it into paraview and take a look and see what it looks like. So these are actually the files that you download it. If you go back and download the sample files from the website and each one of these are saved in the particular file name, so the header information is saved in header dot T XT, the X coordinates that we looked at are saying there's an S coordinates file white coordinates the coordinates and then of course the look up table. So at this point, what I'd like for you to do for those of you who are following along is to actually combine all of that information into one file. This way you won't have to worry about trying to type in all of that information that we looked at before.

[5336.0s - 5365.0s]
And I'm just going to go back here. So each one of these sections is saved in a particular file. So if you were to combine those, save it as a VTK file, then the next step is going to be to actually load that file. So that is the exercise for this section of the workshop. So if you will take him.

[5365.0s - 5394.0s]
Comment too if you haven't already, download these files, combine them into one file, and then what we're going to do is I'm going to ask you to actually look at it, open it up and apply these filters that we replied in the previous to the previous datasets to see what that might look like. So if you will take a moment to assemble. Those files into one file. And in this case I saved this data sample data. But of course, you know you can save it to whatever file that you choose and will remember what that file name is. A simple text editor will suffice. Remember if you've downloaded the text files, all you'll need to do is to copy.

[5394.0s - 5423.0s]
And paste. All of this information into one file. And then save it. Any questions so far?

[5423.0s - 5452.0s]
OK, so if you have. Assemble the file. Then you should have. Saved it somewhere onto your desktop on your laptop, locate that file and then. You should see it loading into power paraview and you should see an object for that file in the pipeline browser. Remember you won't see anything until you actually click apply.

[5452.0s - 5481.0s]
So what I want you to do is to add once you have the file loaded Anna Contour plot. So that means you're going to do. Filters common contour and then I want you to play around with the range of values we did that couple of times with the second data set. We did it once with the first data set, so now what I'd like for you to do is to set the range of values to start from 20.0123 hundred with a step of 10. And then tell me what you see for those of you who are following along. So you should have the sample file that you've assembled. Save it somewhere and then I want you to locate it. Use paraboot to load it. Into the program. For which you should have. It represented in the pipeline browser at least one object.

[5481.0s - 5510.0s]
If you were able to do that. Who can tell me what you should see in the pipeline browser? No one's awake. So what do you think you might see? So if you load the file? Then you should see an object that represents the data file, correct? Now take silence to mean yes. Once you have that file in the pipeline browser, you're going to apply a filter. And when you apply a filter, then you're going to have another object in the pipeline browser and that will be the filter that you applied. And in this case it should be a contour and So what you should be able to see once you have those two objects in the pipeline browser is something that looks like one of these two files. Sorry, one of these two outputs, so one of the things I want to point out is that with paraview, oftentimes you will have different views that you want to look at different times, not necessarily different layers, but different values. Different outputs from the filters. You can do a split window so you can view multiple views at once, or multiple Windows multiple outputs at one time, and so if you click on the little buttons on your upper left corner upper right corner there not the X, because that will close it out, but the. Buttons to the to the left of that you can either split your window horizontally or vertically, and this allows you again to visually show different parts of the data at different times. Maybe you're showing something that's happening at the same time, but it's a different perspective. This allows you to do that.

[5510.0s - 5539.0s]
So for those of you who are following along, this is where we should be. You should be able to if you save the file, the output, the sample file and you've rendered it, then you should be able to see the contour here and the other representation over on the right side. So. I think this is possibly a good place for a break. It is 3:00 o'clock. OK.
