The way they related to deriving particle physics properties as well as microscopic structure of black holes. In high energy Theorie, our quest is to uncover underlying principle of fundamental interactions of nature. Is the most promising candidate that would unify. And this is the main motivation why we study string theory as such. Graviton is elementary particle that mediates gravitational quantum interactions. Always appears in string theory as another masselos excitation of strings. So quantum interactions in this theory appear. This produces much softer, less divergent interactions of quantum theory of string. Things look like they are in place. An also appears to have gravity always as part of low energy excitations. It turns out that string theory is fully consistent finite theorie. The strings have to propagate in 10 spacetime dimensions. To answer some of the questions that are relevant from string theory for implications of four dimensional physics. To relay string theory to 4 dimensional physics we have to curl up extra dimensions into tiny compact spaces that are not observable. 4 dimensional spacetime and an extra 6 dimensions are curled up on an specific. So this is one point that the role of extra dimensions. Now in this space, in order to relate it. Now, what are the brains in this picture of open strings? If we effectively increase the string coupling string interactions to be strong, suddenly this bounderies become massive sources. Also for particle physics, which is a main focus of my research in the past few years. Mass excitations of these open strings that start and end on the same type of brain produced for me, gauge bosons associated with non abelian gauge symmetry that is now consequences of mass. Different brace can wrap different cycles in internal space, and they can also intersect with each other. And so number of intersections would produce number of different quark families for example. And number of our families. So I will start with highlighting the description of elementary particle interactions as a quantum field theory of point particles that leads to the consistent description of elementary particle interactions within what we call Standard Model. That is played in string theory is the role of extra dimensions. And in more modern perspective on string theory also the role of new objects that we call D branes. Both particle physics and the origin of the microscopic structure of black holes. And is this modular parameter of the torus that tells us the value of this parameter? We know that now location of the brains will signify singularity. So now in this geometric phase it's not how many brains we have as boundaries of open strings, but how singular this divisor is. That tell us the mass of the top quark an is those couplings that in Grand Unified models we actually in this perturbative D brain picture that I described early earlier, do not appear perturbatively, so that was main motivation because it's potentially promising phenomenological description of grand unified models with intriguing particle physics. Now description of the nature of string theory were coupling. Now, with this techniques we are a bit more limited. In particular, as I tried to motivate for Grand Unified models, but more recently also for other particle physics models don't want to start with grand Unified models. Standard model because we often need additional symmetry for the standard models in order to prevent what we call our parity violating couplings that requires not just this gate continuous gates images but also discrete symmetry and that's. In addition to this non abelian ones because of course they are important for the standard model and also for. The way I described to you as could I mention one singularity in the base. This lead us to study of new geometric origin of this a billion continuous and discrete symmetry in F theorie that lead also to new mathematics. Of no return for particles traveling toward it, and those are the so called horizons. So one of the important questions that we would want to answer is how to relate this thermodynamic property of classical objects as black hole to its statistical origin, which is logarithm of number of degrees. They extended massive objects sources. OK, not just extend point like sources as gravitational objects and they would look like black holes in 4 dimensions. The mental theory of elementary particles, which is described in terms of quantum field theory. Where interactions among elementary particles are described as quantum mechanical processes, which we quantify a spacetime processes by exchanging of virtual particles that mediate those interactions. Long time ago where we, as I said in words, we would describe Now D branes as gravitational sources. And the area of the horizon of this special black holes was square root of the product of this different four charges. One observe this duality that there's gravitational objects D brane OK, have dual description in terms of boundaries of strings in weekly couple regime and one can basically calculate the number of excitations that appear for such specific. A specific configuration now in the other limit where the brains are boundaries of open strings and you with string theory techniques, you calculate the number of states associated with this energy level. This mass of the black holes encounter menu. However, most of these studies were, we found microscopic origin. Or black holes in terms of. Do quantum field theory description where for so called extremal black holes? That was special example I showed you, or maybe for black holes that are little has a little bit bigger than it's extremal value, so those are special black holes. Again, with no technical details, but really point out that in the last few years what my focus in this program of understanding features and microscopic structure of black holes in string theory focused on trying to. So it's really strongly interact quantum mechanical systems that is drawing nowadays in general contexts a lot of attention in our field. OK, I tried to highlight some other developments in string theory by pointing out some intriguing insights into possible unification of the origin of particle physics and quantum gravity and present it highlights for particle physics, first for the consequences of new objects, D branes, but then also describing this object at the strong string coupling which we refer to F theory, an intriguing new geometric insights and. OK, you know there is much more to this story. Consistent theory of electroweak and strong interactions that goes under the name of the Standard Model. So this is a quantum field theory of point like particles that is based on the nature of interactions that we refer to as non abelian gauge symmetry. Another building block. So classical theory of gravity is described by Einstein's theory. Curve the space and time. Other massive particles follow particular trajectories, geodesics. Would be to describe gravitational effects that are relevant for Cosmo logical questions, namely the behavior of theory in the early universe. Another important consequence of Einstein's theory of gravity is the prediction of black holes. With very high mass density. Behave as thermodynamic objects, in particular, the notion of 1/4 of the area of the horizon has thermodynamic properties of the thermodynamic entropy. Of course we want to go beyond the classical theory of gravity and describe gravity as a quantum field theory. The particles that mediate interactions here are gravitons. And as the theory is a quantum theory, is viewed as inconsistent. And he said this small distances that, like excitations of strings.