[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon, it's a real pleasure to introduce millions vintage professor mirrors, vintage personalities. God hears her BS and Ms in physics from the University of Ljubljana in 79 and then an 81 respectively and then he sharing her PhD in physics from the University of Maryland. In 84 she worked as a research associate at Slack from 84 until 87 and since 80, seven 1987. She's been at the University of Pennsylvania currently. She is a full professor. In fact, she's a fair RN Eugene L Landberg endowed chair. And the main research topics are Professor Satish include theoretical elementary and elementary particle physics, including basic interactions and experimental tests of fundamental theories. She studies effective Lagrangian of Superstring, M theory, supergravity, general relativity, implications of extended gauge structures and string theories as well as black holes. Cheese Co authored almost 300 research papers. She's been an editor of physics Letters B since 97, and she's received quite a few awards for her work. Including the Boris Killer toward in Slovenia in 1983, and today she's going to tell us about her recent achievements. Thank you very much for this nice introduction. It's really a great pleasure to be here again and thank you to the organizers for your kind invitation. The topic that I'm decided to cover in this colloquium is to tell you some things about the advances in string theory. The way they related to deriving particle physics properties as well as microscopic structure of black holes. In this colloquium, I will primarily focus on particle physics derivation from string theory, but may highlight few things. Also from the work on black holes.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
In high energy Theorie, our quest is to uncover underlying principle of fundamental interactions of nature. And in this quest. String theory. Is the most promising candidate that would unify. The interactions of elementary particles, electromagnetic, strong and weak interactions together with consistent quantum theory of gravity. And this is the main motivation why we study string theory as such. So, as I already pointed out in this colloquium, I will highlight more recent developments. That string theory has four implications for particle physics, and extremely briefly, if I still have time for implications of the structural black holes. While this can be viewed as an overview of this field, I have to apologize because the highlights would be very upen centric.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So I will start with highlighting the description of elementary particle interactions as a quantum field theory of point particles that leads to the consistent description of elementary particle interactions within what we call Standard Model. As far as gravity goes, I will start with classical theory of gravity. Einstein's gravity that describes black holes and point out difficulties when we want to treat this gravity as a quantum theory. This will naturally lead me to highlighting the unification of these two types of interactions within string theory, where we will see that quantum gravity naturally appears together with unification of elementary particle interactions as a consistent quantum theory. Well, one roll. That is played in string theory is the role of extra dimensions. And in more modern perspective on string theory also the role of new objects that we call D branes. And one of the goals that I have is is to emphasize that actually the role of extra dimensions and the existence of new objects. Will give us knew geometric perspective on the origin. Both particle physics and the origin of the microscopic structure of black holes. So let me start with the.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The mental theory of elementary particles, which is described in terms of quantum field theory. Where interactions among elementary particles are described as quantum mechanical processes, which we quantify a spacetime processes by exchanging of virtual particles that mediate those interactions. This processes are quantified in terms of so called Feynman diagrams. And escrib.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Consistent theory of electroweak and strong interactions that goes under the name of the Standard Model. So this is a quantum field theory of point like particles that is based on the nature of interactions that we refer to as non abelian gauge symmetry. Were interactions are being mediated via gauge bosons. Spin one particles. And they mediate this interaction between fermions. That build our quarks and leptons, namely our matter. And it turns out that in the standard model, quarks and leptons appear in three different copies in three families. Another building block. That is needed for the consistent breaking of weak, an electric interaction into electromagnetic interactions. At low energy requires the existence of the Higgs particle. Which was discovered about five years ago at a large hardon Collider at CERN. So the techniques of quantum field theory, the way they describe the standard model, has been extensively tested and confirmed. At large hardon collider's. In particular, in recent year, the one at CERN, where user Steven also has large high profile participation. Now let me turn to the gravity description.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So classical theory of gravity is described by Einstein's theory. We're massive objects. Curve the space and time. So in the presence of this curved spacetime due to massive objects. Other massive particles follow particular trajectories, geodesics. That actually geometrically. Can be used to describe the motion of massive particles around each other, including explaining geometrically planetary orbits.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Another roll of quantum gravity, not anxious gravity. Would be to describe gravitational effects that are relevant for Cosmo logical questions, namely the behavior of theory in the early universe. But this is neither the topic of my research nor the topic of this colloquium, but there is clearly broad directions in studying Cosmo logical implications associated with the theory of gravity.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Another important consequence of Einstein's theory of gravity is the prediction of black holes. If we have an object. With very high mass density. Such an object can curve spacetime so strongly. That another massive object that travels toward this object reaches a point toward that object where it cannot return back. This is the the region of no return and we refer to this location in space and time as the horizon. In mid late 70s it was realized that this classical objects. Behave as thermodynamic objects, in particular, the notion of 1/4 of the area of the horizon has thermodynamic properties of the thermodynamic entropy. Similarly, we can identify the thermodynamic property of the temperature associated with the geometry of this horizons. And that satisfy thermodynamic. For example, first law where the variation of the energy is associated with the variation of the change of mass. And it's related and to the change of the area of the horizon and the temperature black hole. So this is actually very intriguing. Observation that one would like to understand better on a deeper level, in particular to understand the statistical origin. That is associated with this thermodynamic feature of the area of the entropy that is associated with the geometry.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Of course we want to go beyond the classical theory of gravity and describe gravity as a quantum field theory. When we attempt to do that. The particles that mediate interactions here are gravitons. That mediate quantum interactions between massive metal particles. However. Due to the nature of the gravitational couplings. It turns out as we attempt to do such calculations, we encounter infinities in quantum field theory due to interactions exchanges via gravitons. And we cannot absorb. This Infinity is consistently to get predictable results from quantum theory of gravity. And as the theory is a quantum theory, is viewed as inconsistent. So one of the main goals, actually Holy Grail of fundamental theory, is to search for a consistent quantum theory of gravity. Anet is string theory that plays an important role in this quest. Any questions?

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So how do we describe string theory? So our point like particles. Are viewed in string theory as excitations of very small objects, so namely if we go to very small distances very high energies. We would start probing. The fact that we describe the theory in terms of quantum extended objects strings. And he said this small distances that, like excitations of strings. Describe, for example, our matter, like works or leptons. Another important feature of string theory is because of its extended objects.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Graviton is elementary particle that mediates gravitational quantum interactions. Always appears in string theory as another masselos excitation of strings. And basically that's associated with the fact that Graviton is spin two particle. Is described in terms of. Do component. In this is that as if our spacetime and string theory always produces such two component field becausw, we can excite it along what we call left, moving right moving direction. So gravity is always part of quantization of string theory. So string theory contains gravity. Is the quantum theory. At the level of this low energy massless excitation of strings. Now, how do strings interact? Inquire.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Some theory? So those would be this extended objects that travel in space. And sweep out not word lines but the worldsheet because of their extended nature. So quantum interactions in this theory appear. At location where these strings split or join. And we parameterized the strength of this process in terms of what we call string coupling. Now, because strings are extended objects, this interactions don't happen at at the point. Like in point, like quantum field theory, but at the more extended location in space and time. And it turns out that this is a quantum theory. This produces much softer, less divergent interactions of quantum theory of string. Actually, it's so soft. That describing quantum processes of full fledged strings has no infinities. And so. We are dealing with the quantum theory of extended objects. That as a quantum theory is well defined and contains as a low energy quantum theory of gravity. And this is one of the main motivation why we believe that string theory should play. A fundamental role in unification of quantum gravity with the rest of the forces of nature.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Well, this is like a nice story. Things look like they are in place. So we have a theory that is consistent quantum theory, both of mass excitations, which would be particles. An also appears to have gravity always as part of low energy excitations. Well, things are not as simple. It turns out that string theory is fully consistent finite theorie. Is there really only in special? Space and time dimensions, namely, to really make it completely quantum finite, namely, to be without what we calling in quantum theory anomalies. The strings have to propagate in 10 spacetime dimensions. Well our world is 4 dimensional and so to tie implications of string theory to the rest. We have to see how the effects of 10 dimensional theory affect description of four dimensional theory. So in particular, I'm going to focus in the rest of my talk right? To answer some of the questions that are relevant from string theory for implications of four dimensional physics. So.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
To relay string theory to 4 dimensional physics we have to curl up extra dimensions into tiny compact spaces that are not observable. By current energies that we can reach. So their size has to be very small. And basically, along with our effectively flat spacetime, we attach the tiny curled compact spaces whose dimension is 6 dimensional because original total dimension was ten, our spacetime is flat. 4 dimensional spacetime and an extra 6 dimensions are curled up on an specific. Curled up compactified spaces that, for consistency of the description of theory, have to have some special curvature and we refer to them as Calabi Yau spaces. A very special symmetric case of such compactification would be to describe this space is as a bunch of little circles or little taurai. That's a very special case, but in general we have more general compact spaces that nevertheless have special curvature.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So this is one point that the role of extra dimensions. Place, namely, to connect it to 4 dimensions, we have to compactify the extra 10 dimensions. An study string theory. Now in this space, in order to relate it. To quantum gravity in 4 dimensions and particle physics in 4 dimensions. In more recent years there was also put a new perspective on physics of string theory, which which appears with the introduction of new objects. The so called D branes. So I'm going to focus now on the role that the brains play in the description of string theory and highlight the dual role. Actually, that dispraise play that in one domain we can discuss right particle physics. In modern perspective. Due to presence of the brain, but also the way such objects play a role in describing. Internal structure of black holes in string theory.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So what are now this objects that I suddenly introduce? OK, so I started with the description of strings. For example close strings. It's evolving space and time. Those are the so called close strings. But I can describe string theory also in terms of open strings. An I can formally attach effective charges to the bounderies. Of this, open strings. Now, what are the brains in this picture of open strings? The brains in this picture basically describe the boundaries on which open string end. And basically bring effectively degrees of freedom associated with the charges at the end of the brains. At the end of the strings. So this is 1 perspective of the introduction of open strings as describing quantitatively the boundaries of open string and the actually stands for Dirichlet because in that direction we would have the original boundary conditions associated with the ends of open strings. So that picture of closed and open strings we the boundaries that we called the brains, has important new implications. Tickle physics be 'cause there could be charged interactions directly living on this boundaries that we called the brains. Anne. We could describe Standard Model in terms of such charge degrees. Of open strings. Now these brains actually have.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Full description. If we effectively increase the string coupling string interactions to be strong, suddenly this bounderies become massive sources. That extend now over this word volume. Namely, this is we refer to that as back reaction as we go to strong string couplings and in a door picture this boundaries of open string become extended massive objects that curve space and time. And once they are massive objects. We could in principle view them as something out of which we could be done in 4 dimensions, build black holes in this dual domain. There is actually an intriguing implications. Also this dual description at stronger coupling. Also for particle physics, which is a main focus of my research in the past few years. An is this other dual domain or couplings of string is large and sode brains become gravitational objects. Where we try to deduce properties of particle physics from string theory, but now in the finite string domain which is. You know an important non perturbative approach to learning more about string theory, but let me turn first to this picture. That is, which is strings are perturbative open strings and on the brains and implications.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Particle physics there. OK, so in this first picture is what we have is as we put the brains together boundaries together we have no strings that start and end on a bunch of this parallel D branes, and if we put them together. Mass excitations of these open strings that start and end on the same type of brain produced for me, gauge bosons associated with non abelian gauge symmetry that is now consequences of mass. Excitation of this open strings that end on collapsing brains. So three brains that would be S Q3 of strong interactions and massless excitations of this open string precisely produced for me. Gauge bosons, gluons of SU-3, and similarly for SU-2. Or you want so as far as gauge degrees of freedom. Now go are really basically identified with existence of gauge bosons that are massless excitations of open string. This start and end on the same set of collapsing. The brains. So this is pretty good, but this objects now with open strings live in 10 dimensions. So now I want to draw implications of D branes for four dimensional physics. From this perspective. OK, so I have to do the hard stuff. OK, I

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Have to now Compactify 10 dimensional space and see what happens to the brains. OK, so this boundary of open strings would have. Bounderies on 4 dimensional spacetime. So we basically live on the brains, But if this D branes boundaries extend before beyond 3 + 1 dimensions, extra boundaries of the brains have to live in this compact spaces. OK, so let's magnify this compact space an if the brains has bigger world volume that 3 + 1 dimensions. Extra dimensions of the brains word volume has to wrap cycles. On internal space. Now we have different brains. Different brace can wrap different cycles in internal space, and they can also intersect with each other. OK, so already argues that this Brody brains percept produced for me gauge bosons from states that start and end on the CD brains. But what happens from strings that stretch between these intersections?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So. If we magnify again, this intersections of D branes. We could see that we have strings. That extend say between as you three an SUV, two brain. And studying Masters excitations there at this intersection always produces for us massless fermions. In 4 dimensions. So at each intersections we see appearance of massless fermions that look for example in this case like quarks. OK, so we have geometric origin of appearance of chiral matter from this perspective, with the brains OK. Another consequence of compact spaces that intersection of brains that wrap different cycles can be counted. As topological number in internal space we can count the number of such intersections. And this is typically topological number. And so number of intersections would produce number of different quark families for example. So is this picture with the brains that actually gives us implication for particle physics from string theory in a very geometric way, namely gate symmetries, a sexy tations of objects that start and end or the same. Pray for me on families. It's appearing at intersection of cycles of different brains. And number of our families. That is the number of intersection of cycles are all geometric in origin, so this is not approve that string theory produces standard model. But we see that in this interpretation it has very geometric origin. For implications of particle models. And so that's actually the effort that I've been pursuing in the past. The.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
It led to 1st consistent construction of Standard Model with this intersecting branes that has three families, and that actually opens many further studies that led to. Analysis of how many possible standard models we can get from different compactifications from different cycles that leads to consistent order of 10 models of that type that actually let us also to use to potentially address implications. For anomalies that were happening at Alisi last year, that unfortunately went away, but. We use modeling with this description of string theory to see how they could be relevant for knew physics as well, not just the standard model, but I won't go into technical details. They are. They were further non perturbative developments that could explain not only masses for quarks and charged laptops, but also for neutrinos that also opened a lot of not only conceptual but also phenomenological studies in this corner of string theory. OK, but I would really like to highlight for you things that occupy me for the last three to five years, which is trying to study implications of string theory for particle physics when the string coupling is not small. So going into domain when string coupling is large. Of course we are much more limited. They are because we don't have. Quantum theory of perturbative strings. But nevertheless, we are employing intriguing geometric methods to describe particle physics. Now in the regime, when string coupling is not small and we refer to this theory as F theory. So I have 15 minutes so.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Me. Even tell you what this is. OK, So what have I told you about? I told you about the brains OK and how they produce in the weak coupling. Geometrically, origin of the building blocks of the Standard Model. Now I want to go into dual regime where D branes become gravitational objects. So basically this is the regime when the string coupling is not small. So now they. They back react. And change the original Columbia space because they sort of are now gravitational objects. Modify everything in terms of new geometry. OK, because and that geometry now with gravitational objects is the brains is described with what we call F. Theorie were in addition to this back reacted compact space due to the presence of brains, we add. Two extra dimensions which are not sort of real but are used to describe the strength of string coupling. OK, so geometrically we describe the origin how strong the screen string coupling is on this knew back reacted compact space. OK, so it's basically the original weakly coupled theory with the brains becomes now. The theory were brains are strongly when string coupling is strongly coupled and we get new geometric description of that. Now this athiri actually is related what we call Duality's to other corners of string theory. If we further compactified at on the circle, this becoming some limit, 11 dimensions supergravity, or if if we magnify that is what we call a cell theory and then we have the whole set of duality's where we have this ftre regime and in certain limits. This theory starts behaving as another Thierry. For example M theory or also becomes the regional well studied heterotic string theory in certain limits, and this web of duality is how different string theories are related goes under the name of weak strong type duality, and it's important you concepts also that was uncovered by studying the non perturbative origonal string theory. Anyway, let me go to F theory here OK? So.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So what I tried to say is we have the original compact space, but now brains are. For example, here are now geometric objects and they curve this space. It's a new type back reactive space. Now we want to trace the strength of the string coupling. So we add to this space what we call a little donut, a Taurus. OK, this is a flat space with periodicity. In two directions. An the tilting of these stores is specified by what we call modular parameter. And is this modular parameter of the torus that tells us the value of this parameter? How strong the string coupling is? So we put on top of this compact space. This extra Tori and the value how it's tilted. The value of this module part tells us how strong the string coupling is in this geometric limit. OK, and as we move around OK. The string coupling will start changing an when there is a location of big back reactive the brain. It will actually even blow up. OK, so we describe now there's F theory compactification in terms of introducing this Taurus, whose modular program tells us how strong the coupling is. Ann, it's shape start changing as we move over this base space. We call that in technical terms that Taurus is fibered over this compact space, so Torres coordinates change shape changes as we move across. So. Wherever we detect in the base location of the brain. The Taurus parameter becomes singular because it signifies at this base. The very large string coupling that is associated with the location of this brain, really nonperturbative brain in this geometric limit, OK? And this whole picture is now typically described right as consistent compactification of string theory at finite coupling that is now Taurus. Fibered over some base Columbia space.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So again. We know that now location of the brains will signify singularity. For us, the Taurus will be generated there an at the location of a divisors associated regional picture. When this D branes bounderies just wrap the cycles with the singularity. So long this divisor, I would have degenerate tourists and it was the nature of this singularity will now signify what kind of non abelian gauge symmetry I have. So now in this geometric phase it's not how many brains we have as boundaries of open strings, but how singular this divisor is. It will tell us whether we have S3 or SU-2, or some other non abelian gauge symmetry where two different divisors in the base intersect. Of course, stores is even more singular. This is cool. Magento Singularity and that's where we identify the appearance of matter and we can determine its charge, namely whether it's quark or or if it has some other representation based on the nature of this intersection. And actually, when three divisors intersect, this signifies the appearance of coupling of three types of fields, and is this coupling that tells us after symmetry breaking in the standard model, how heavy the top quark is, for example. Right, so the origin of all these key features in this domain of strongly couple string theorie are really now described with this involved geometry. OK.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So why do we want to study that? Well, we want to study different corners of string theory, and this is very intriguing one. Both from phenomenological possibilities because it potentially provides us new type of promising particle physics. Namely, we want to describe the so called Grand Unified theories in this context due to the non perturbative value of the coupling, we could we would now see directly in geometry of periods, for example of certain couplings. That tell us the mass of the top quark an is those couplings that in Grand Unified models we actually in this perturbative D brain picture that I described early earlier, do not appear perturbatively, so that was main motivation because it's potentially promising phenomenological description of grand unified models with intriguing particle physics. But it's also very important conceptually. Because as I tried to, at least in words, explain to you, we have very geometric pure geometry. Now description of the nature of string theory were coupling. String coupling is in finite regime and not perturbative. Now, with this techniques we are a bit more limited. We can really determine typically properties of string theory in 4 dimensions only for why would call discrete data. Namely, we can identify what is gauge symmetry. We can identify what, how many quarks and leptons we have. And we can also in principle calculate the existence of couplings. But more detailed find things are harder in this regime nevertheless.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
That led us to intriguing studies of consistent F theory compactification. In particular, as I tried to motivate for Grand Unified models, but more recently also for other particle physics models don't want to start with grand Unified models. We would want to start just maybe with the standard model and how it appears in this domain. This can be now explicitly constructed, which led to the first consistent three families Standard Model in this context. As well as other beyond the standard model examples, not just as you five guys, but what's called left right party Salam model train ification models and so on. We are currently trying to construct global models that will have additional symmetry. Standard model because we often need additional symmetry for the standard models in order to prevent what we call our parity violating couplings that requires not just this gate continuous gates images but also discrete symmetry and that's. Technically more involved in this work in progress, but I just want to sort of surprise me in this study that in this limit of F theory we actually got this consistent three families standard model very easy. We just chose a very simple base.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Is simple projective 6 dimensional space, right? This is the simplest compact space that we could choose identify specific divisors. That were parameterized by certain integers and its consistency of this compactification, that limited allowed values of this integer only up to certain values and outcome was the gate symmetry of the standard model, but we got consistent examples where we have, for example, 27 families and then we had to add some additional point, like the brains, not only those D branes associate with the divisors. So this would be associated with degrees of freedom of hidden sector of the standard model. So we got a bunch of consistent models, well with lots of families, but we also got examples with three families and it didn't require so much work to get. Something was a bit of a surprise to me because I knew how hard it was actually doing consistent compactification with three families. Standard model when we were in this weekly couple or regional regime, OK? Now.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
In the last two years, really, most of my effort has focused on understanding geometry of a billion and discrete symmetries. In addition to this non abelian ones because of course they are important for the standard model and also for. Consistent coupling preventing our parity violating terms so the origin of a billion discrete symmetry and discrete symmetries is actually different from non abelian ones. The way I described to you as could I mention one singularity in the base. This lead us to study of new geometric origin of this a billion continuous and discrete symmetry in F theorie that lead also to new mathematics. To number theory issues of the so called more delve a group HF array. Which group for discrete symmetries very intriguing geometrics, geometry and does extensive collaboration with mathematicians like Rhonda Noggin, Antonella Grassy. But I have no time for that so I really have very little time left now an I.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Would like to tell you tell you a word or two about the strongly interacting gravitational physics that produces black holes from string theory. An I already highlighted the introduction of my lecture that such classical. Objects with very strong gravitational fields have region. Of no return for particles traveling toward it, and those are the so called horizons. That behave that indicate that those black holes behave like thermodynamic objects were the thermodynamic entropy of this black holes is 1/4 of the area Verizon. So this thermodynamic features are black holes, scream for statistical interpretation of such thermodynamic property that we obtained from the geometry of this classical objects. So one of the important questions that we would want to answer is how to relate this thermodynamic property of classical objects as black hole to its statistical origin, which is logarithm of number of degrees. Associated with certain temperature, an energy level. And the question you want to ask yourself is what would be microscopic degrees of freedom of this classical objects that would describe statistical entropy in that way and equate it to the.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Thermodynamic one, an indeed string theory, shed light on this important questions in strongly gravitate Ng objects by describing the brains as. In a regime when they are gravitational objects, so I'm going to a regime where the brains are gravitational objects. They extended massive objects sources. Of mass tension and as a consequence they curve spacetime. So how would we get black holes from string theory in this limit? OK, well we will try to describe this gravitational objects now in 4 dimensions where the brains would now be pointlike sources. OK, not just extend point like sources as gravitational objects and they would look like black holes in 4 dimensions. OK of course extra parts of this. The brains will have to grab some cycles in internal spaces. Gravitational objects indeed, that type of black holes were studied in string theory.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Long time ago where we, as I said in words, we would describe Now D branes as gravitational sources. So in the four dimensions they would be point like source. But because they extend this gravitation sources in extra dimensions. This I just wrote a simple tours will wrap cycles. And there would be some intersections there, OK? So really, a long time I was. Studying such black hole solutions from string theory and a particular very special example was found where I would have four different cycles associated four different brains that would produce in 4 dimensions of black hole specified by 4 different charges, each of them associate with different gravitational objects of the brains in higher dimensions. And the area of the horizon of this special black holes was square root of the product of this different four charges. By the way, if I identify those charges with single one, this would be the entropy of extremal reissner Nordstrom Black Hole. OK, but this is the theory. In string theory, each of these charges are sourced by different brains. Shortly after that. One observe this duality that there's gravitational objects D brane OK, have dual description in terms of boundaries of strings in weekly couple regime and one can basically calculate the number of excitations that appear for such specific. A specific configuration now in the other limit where the brains are boundaries of open strings and you with string theory techniques, you calculate the number of states associated with this energy level. This mass of the black holes encounter menu. And that's what Strominger and Vafa did a long time ago. Anne, the miraculous thing happened that both of those things were the same. And so that basically opened a big domain of study of probably course copy properties of black holes, OK from string theory perspective, it's microscopic origin.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
However, most of these studies were, we found microscopic origin. Or black holes in terms of. Do quantum field theory description where for so called extremal black holes? That was special example I showed you, or maybe for black holes that are little has a little bit bigger than it's extremal value, so those are special black holes. OK, but that led to really much broader perspective in the study of microscopic properties of gravitational objects, namely it led to than you. Conceptual inside that we can quantify such microscopic degrees via so called gravity field theory, duality, or in more specific case, for this black holes that if we identify in the geometry of those black holes a special space time part of this geometry special spacetime, the so called spacetime with negative cosmological constant. That's the so called anti de Sitter spacetime. The boundary of the space time that we identify with in such gravitational objects. Will be described by do or filthy arriane would be conformal theory? In one dimension less and that gravity field theory duality in this specific context goes under the name of a DfT. Correspondence and that actually opened the studies. Also applications to other systems, not just the black hole systems where it originates from. And now I'm almost done 4 minutes done, but I have one more slide.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Again, with no technical details, but really point out that in the last few years what my focus in this program of understanding features and microscopic structure of black holes in string theory focused on trying to. Did use microscopic structure also for non extremal black holes, namely when mass is not bound by the this bound equal to the sum of charges an in this approach what we did, we took such general non extremal black hole and we modified the SIM tatics of this black hole in specific way. That this geometry had hidden a DS space in it. OK, now this modification of the subtractive geometry actually didn't change entropy of the original black hole, and that was the important thing is just that we put a specific box, modified asymptotic geometry and uncovered a DS space there, and then we had techniques of ADC FT corresponded to explain entropy also such. Modified non extremal black holes, and that was actually initiated in the work within Larson and Gary Gibbons, but also I'm very proud of the recent work with Yannis Papadimitriou, where we really quantify this properties of this specific subtractive geometry that has the same area of the horizon as this general non extremal black holes via correspondence. When we uncovered lower dimensional entered the sitter space down that is dual. To conform, all filter in one dimension filter in one dimension is what? Quantum mechanics. So it's really strongly interact quantum mechanical systems that is drawing nowadays in general contexts a lot of attention in our field. But I have no time. However, I had a great opportunity to give 10 lectures related to this topic and some of the students here are in the audience. So.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So this is it. OK, I tried to highlight some other developments in string theory by pointing out some intriguing insights into possible unification of the origin of particle physics and quantum gravity and present it highlights for particle physics, first for the consequences of new objects, D branes, but then also describing this object at the strong string coupling which we refer to F theory, an intriguing new geometric insights and. Understanding of the origin of particle physics from that corner of string theory, but also I didn't have much time. Nevertheless inside we are getting about microscopic structure of black holes from string theory via gravity field theory, duality. So in particular, the lesson that you might have gotten from this really recent modern developments is that we are developing geometric techniques. To address the properties of string theories in a regime where the string coupling is not weak. And hopefully there are still a lot of other questions and problems and maybe sometimes in the future. I'll tell you more about our further insights into that. Thank you. Thank you very much. First time for questions. The next steps are needed. The injury to go further down or experiments can do something what you already see or predict right? You see when we are trying string theoretical particle physics, as you saw, I had to compactify it right and in one corner there D branes, but they are at different cycles, so we can construct 4 dimensional. Theories consistent for the major theories. From different cycles, different compactification and that's, you know, gives us different models that have standard model and typically plus stuff, right? So string theory typically gives us 4 dimensional compactifications that give us standard model which I tried to highlight is nontrivial an income geometric. Plus stuff. OK, so if experiments indicate appearance of extra particles, like extra gauge bosons. Extra charge exotic particles that would be up the alley of string theory because very often we get that. This outcome of string theory OK, but of course the main objection to this studies is we don't have unique prediction. We have consistent. Models. OK. And but we don't have. We have only one model, so that this is really the problem. So in that context I haven't answered this question, which is the model of the world because they all look from compactification percent consistent. What I've done actually in this more modern last few years work is describing now new features of particle physics that come from new corner string theory. When coupling is large, right? You know, sometimes my view is if. If there is a geometric or is static explanation? Of certain phenomena like Karel symmetry, non abelian gauge symmetry. Right number of families that are geometric an I can actually give colloquium on that. Maybe that has something to do with the real origin. OK of world particle physics could come from. Have I sort of answered that, yeah. Sorry I I'm not a specialist in this field, but. There's a question I was always asking people, but nobody seems to know the answer. I understand that you are working with mattress is of. Well, not having dimensions and so on, but how does such a matrix related to actual physical dimensions? I mean, why do you have to say that for instance spin? Is a consequence of some physical dimension I cannot appearance of quarks. Is there too many? Yeah, in general. Um? Well, yeah, gate symmetry, right? It really you see this spin like like gauge bosons or quarks? They really come in this limit from quantization of strings. OK, so connection between spin. OK, comes really from the way quantization of string works OK. But it's also a consequence that those strings are living in this extra compact dimensions, right? So. I said gauge bosons come from strings that start and end on the same brain. OK, if I'm intend I mentioned, those would be 10 dimensional gauge bosons. OK, so if I wanted to have 4 dimensional gauge puzzles this would be just compactification OK. But Clarkson laptimes come from intersection. And are strings that live on this bounderies at the intersection and it's a consequence they are of this type of quantization of string that looks like 4 dimensional spin 1/2 right? So it's sort of intriguing thing right at that string theory predicts that you know this is not Colusa client theorie. This consequences that are very hard to ensure. It includes a client theory like non abelian gauge symmetry, chiral matter. This all comes from features of strings really. You know. OK, maybe I have an answer. All the questions but gave you may be repeated few things already said yeah, excuse me, I have very little knowledge. Don't worry. But before this I read just a little bit in this. Penrose is book Rd to reality, yes, and they're he seems a little sceptical about string theory in general, so my I'm an idiot as I say physics. So my question is what you said this? Is this just mathematical theory or this is indeed connected with reality? Right, let me first say commenting on Penrose. Penrose is classical general relativists. So, and he's not particle physicists, OK? So. He may have different perspective. You know they are people trying to quantize gravity in some other context. But they're not successful enough, because had they been we would have been all working on it. OK, so. As I tried to motivate is if we want quantum theory of gravity. Is quantum theory consistent? Then we have to go to something else and that's prime candidate. Actually, some people will say the only game in town because that's a picture of consistent quantization. OK, now is that the answer to the world OK? Theoretical physicists, we build things on consistency, right quantum consistency and then we see what we could get right. Sorry, and the beauty in beauty. Yeah, you saw as outcomes. Lots of things. Actually. This gravity field theory that you got first glimpses of that opens the new field in other fields because now they can study quantum mechanical systems by techniques of gravity, and so they are. They are spin offs in that, but in our quest you see we're after fundamental consistent quantum theories. OK, that's the one that passes. This you know bar OK, you see what our problem is that once we go, it's pretty. You know this beautiful diagram I showed you all right. That's not that very few corners. That would be pretty small possibilities, right? For similar, but it's in 10 dimensions. So our problem is you know how to consistently do it in describe 4 dimensions, and that was a large part of the message. The message is, we can do it, and it often looks very geometric. It's not unique. That is, you see those are major objections against our field, not inconsistencies. But many consistent possibilities that have features of particle physics, right? OK, I hope I said it clearly. Typically you get this material standard model plus other particles can also get the standard model without extra particles, or at least. Not any good looking. Yeah, this example in F theory that I showed you OK would be example where we would see only the standard model. We do. We do have additional brains, but they live away. So it's hidden sector. OK, now you say OK, that doesn't pass my criterium. OK, you know there is much more to this story. This is the theory at high energies, right? It has special symmetries we have to break symmetries as we go to our lower energies. And that often requires now effective dynamics of extra hidden stuff, OK? But but now I don't have example. That's just standard model. There's always a hidden sector. It doesn't. It can be constructed, it doesn't interact. OK, so you can again consistently make it such. That is the coupled that you cannot excite it because there are no particles mediating interactions between those two sectors. OK, so in that sense. Typically you see typical differing constructions in this other limit. Perturbative limit produces hidden sector, but it's not completely hidden 'cause they are typically always intersection of hidden sector with standard model brains. So typically you have, but this F theory example is simplus robust thing, right can be viewed as having hidden sector, just really coupled. I'm not look, I told you broad strokes things. Very important conceptual things, right? None of billing is symmetry, chirality. An family multiplication, right. Multiplicity of families, right? This broad strokes. Come out there and other theories have very hard. There are no other theories that can do that in such a way, but you want to be ambitious. You want to find example that has all the you cover couplings, right? OK, that gives you the right scale of electroweak symmetry breaking all the stuff, which is much more detailed, right? Questions that appear as we go from this energies of small distances when we have this year to low energies and that's. The whole other studies OK in this fine print. We are not that good. We have to be Frank about it. Thank you. You select as a basis for the description of the world 10 dimensional string theory, right or 10 dimensional objects. 10 dimensional spacetime yeah OK, but in the description of dynamic phenomena, classical dynamic phenomena we can find that sometimes the dimensionality is not integer. And fractal the system itself. Dictates what should be the dimensionality say of strange attractor in the chaotic theory. So one could expect that by starting. From a continuous dimensional world or model. The system would by itself determine the dimensionality. Have you tried to do something like this? That's very hard in quantum field theory. I hear you because this is important phenomena right in dynamic classical systems and. I know I don't have good answer to that. Just thank you 'cause it's really. It's a quantum and the notion of dimension is put in by hand and in some way what you're pointing out that actually I'm studying in some way consistent kinematic. Properties right? I'm not proving how this evolves with time, and so I'm just putting it. Can I consistently solve my equations right with this answer? Like black holes? That's another example in just classical physics, OK? Typically, how is black hole for forums, right? That's a very dynamic process, time dependent process. Very hard to study quantitatively, right? I mean all this like gall efforts finding Electro. Finding gravitational waves right is motivating. Really. The study in general activity of dynamical processes right here I was asking very simple kinematic question. I have solution eternal black hole solution of that type. Can I address it's it's microscopic structure, right? Very spare. So so you see, you're in quantum theories. That's much tougher to do right then in a specific classical. Examples right because you know you have classical equations and so on. Here it's much more complicated. I probably haven't answered completely, but I hope I. Said it, you know honestly, you know that in some way, these are Moreover kinematic but nontrivial questions in quantum theory of gravity, an particle physics. I see no further questions, so let's thank professor visits for her passionate talk again.
