Social media resources into Clarin D infrastructures on the example of an existing German chat corpus, what I would like to do in the talk is first start with with an overview of why. It was not our own idea to apply for curation project. We were suggested that we. Angelica store and myself, we built the document, said Corpus back in the years 2002 until 2005 at the University of Dortmund and in 2014 we were. We remodeled the resource in TI, but that should not be of interest. The subject is the language used in German jets. It is about 1 million tokens and the motivation to build this corpus was to document the range of linguistic variation in chats depending on the social domain, there is no language of the Internet. In the media, is there an Internet language which is opposed to the normal language and we wanted to show it doesn't? It also contains chat from learning and teaching contexts. This is especially for the social chat sub corpus. Partially the log files were donated by providers of chat rooms or organizers of chat events. Since 2005, we have made available 80% of all log files, or 52% of all tokens available as a free download on the website of the University of Dortmund. Nobody ever complained. Fortunately that these chats are there, but now we had to care for the legal clearance legal opinion. Interesting thing is that according to German law not only big but also small creations can meet these standards and be considered a work. Published if check posts have to be considered as works then the hosting of the corpus by clearing institutions would have to be considered as a violation of the authors Copyright. It would then be a district distribution of unauthorized copies and in the case of check posts which have been collected from non public chat rooms. Only the legal opinion the lawyers came to the opinion that the portion of works among the chat posts in the corpus is considered as fairly low because they are typically rather short and do not meet the threshold of originality. If somebody spontaneously writes a haiku in a chat, then this may be considered work. So therefore they come to the conclusion. Here is the question how to deal with person related data, which is data that enable individual identification of the respective person to conform to the restrictions of the Buddhist data sheets 'cause its data should be represented in a way that the expenses that one would have to invest to individually identify a certain person. The legal opinion says that evidence for person related data in the corpus is low. We couldn't find any case in which a simple online query would have allowed for an identification of the person, but there's still the residual risk that shatters might be identified based on what they state in their posts by people from their visual social surroundings. The consequences in the project where that we decided to completely anonymize the whole corpus we had already already in the version which is available for download on the web. Some sub task could could be done automatically, but there was a lot of manual post editing and the anonymization approaches process inclusive inclusive, including counter checks by the project leaders was finished in early 2017 or we had. Last but not least, now the corpus is available even in anonymized form and in the repositories of the EDS. Even it could only be used at the University of Dortmund. Legal status of social media data, especially when it shall be republished in open in corpus which will be shall be made available. Then we have no standards for data collection, particularly challenging for data from the private sphere such as WhatsApp, SMS, private Facebook conversations, and so on. Bonus, We have no established NLP tools which can be used for which could be used off the shelf for automatic processing and linguistic annotation, which is due to the fact that many of many interactions which we find in social media somehow to certain degree deviate from the written standard norms and this is these are the reasons why we have only so few corpus resources which are actually available for scientific community and the public. In this background, for this is a special interest group in the Text Encoding Initiative. In which we are creating models for representing computer medication or social media corpora in ATI format. Which modify the existing TI standards in order to be able to adequately describe social media resources and the other path leads us towards making a suggestion how these new models could be integrated in the future standard of the T. This is the next step we're working on at the moment. The basic question is how can we represent emerging bond digital formats of interaction mediated through the online medium and the problem is, as we all know, social media technology rapidly changes. It continually changes its face and so do the ways how individuals adapt to the technological environments to communicate a basic representation format should describe BASIC. Interaction formats, but on the level of abstraction abstraction which is relatively stable against the permanent change of technology and communicated practice in order to keep resources sustainable and also be have a relevant schema in two years in three years in five years. And last but not least, it will facilitate the integration international and Pan European common language resources infrastructures such as clearing which already have certain standards which they apply to their resources. And the availability of a basic representation format is one of the prerequisites to foster interoperability of that type, and such a basic representation schema should. The community of users is permanently assessing, evaluating and changing and modifying and adapting this standard coordinated by an elected council that I community provides tools. I fear a snapshot from the Twitter timeline. We have an example of Wikipedia talk page where users discuss similar to a forum and last but not least we have here. What all these formats have in common is that they consist of stretches of texts followed by other strikes. Stretches of texts on the screen. With the individual stretches of texts serving as contributions to ongoing dialogues which different from turns at talk, our first produced as a whole and in the private activity, which means that the other parties of the interaction don't have immediate access to the verbalization of the of the producer. Then they are presented on the screen as a product as a text block as a building block of a sequence which is growing on the screen and. Not until step three is done. On the end of the interaction in the design of the individual posts we have phenomenon such as interleaved interactional patterns or disrupted adjacency's, which has been described in the early literature from a conversation analytic. A point of view on chat communication in the early 90s or mid 90s. And this social media kept at first sight is a problem, especially for people who want to do analysis of social media phenomenon in the humanities and social Sciences. But at the second side, it's not only an issue for them but also an issue for anybody who wants to do research on variation and current trends in contemporary language. And then we can. Which I call effects behind the scenes which we don't see on the screen, but which we can make visible make visible when we look what people do on their computers and in my PhD several 10 years ago. Uh, because I wanted to find out what they do when they're typing their messages. I use screen capturing and I used video observation. So the common features of all of these formats, if we now would like to describe it as a basic format, are it is, I call it the post based written interaction. We have a pre transmission composition I have to produce my communicated move in advance and then it will be available to the others and the basic unit is the post and the pose according to this specific production protocol is something which is different from elements of text structure such as division divisions in paragraphs as well. This schema introduces the post as the basic unit, which is distinct from spoken utterances and from text structure. It introduces a set of attributes for the sub classification of posts it model. It uses models from the TI core and text structure from the T standard which can be used for structuring the user generated content in posts. It will be announced in the I hope in the next news flash of Clarin, Eric. Two days before there will be the seems the 5th CMC and social media corporate conference in Bolzano. Over already stated we have an increasing number of projects in several countries in the in the in recent years, which have started addressing these issues with the goal to close this gap and create social media corpora, which will be made available to the community not only kept in the locker like it was like it was in the past. Therefore, since we have a number of projects working on these issues, there's a good window of opportunity to join forces in creating standards for this type of corpora. In bottom up approach through exchange and discussion of best practices through the exchange of experiences, tools, datasets, and through workshop and other networking events on national and international level justice. I've stated in the title of my talk that the creation of standards for social media corporate would be a digital humanities topic par excellence, and following a distinction by David Berry about traditions in their digital humanities, he is. And in the following I will try to shed light on two of these aspects. One aspect is about legal issues and another thing is about creating a representation standard for social media corpora, which will facilitate the combination and sharing of resources. With models which can be used for the representation of social media resources. I will give a summary of a legal opinion sought for the integration of an existing corpus of German chat communication into the clarity infrastructure. Everything that I say might be wrong. All statements subject to correction, but they are based on a 46 page long legal opinion which we got in the end of our project by the lawyers with whom we were.