We see it in web search and blogs, forums, social networks, question answering sites, online shopping, movie ratings, and several more. So the natural thing is you want good quality of ranking, but given that the fact that you do not receive sufficient reviews, you want quality of ranking per cost of review. Certainly you want the top things to show up, but you want a good ranking overall. So our contributions in this paper is we try to understand what good ranking mechanisms are and we study properties and analyze theoretically different ranking mechanisms. So our results, the theorems informally stated at the following that under certain assumptions of the inherent score distribution and the voting pattern of users, which I'll describe later, one can get accurate rankings with constant feedback or bounded feedback per item using and a comparison based algorithm or comparison based ranking algorithm. And we have experimental results that corroborate these theorems, so this suggests that comparison based ranking schemes may be superior to star based ranking scheme. You're voting items independent of the quality of other items. And finally, in the current systems, there is insufficient incentive for users to vote, so the density of votes is significantly smaller than the density of posts. We explicitly seek feedback by showing pair of items and the advantage. Further, we're able to prove that you can get accurate rankings much faster, and this is also seen in our experiment, specifically in this constant. So where can we use comparison so possible places are public forum such as Twitter dig joke sites, ranking messages on social networks such as status messages on Facebook, ranking, blog post online shopping sites and movie recommendations. But for things like YouTube, one might argue that it's too burdensome on the user to expect him to view 2 five minute clips and then say I prefer this over that. And here we compare this to thumbs based ranking scheme and specifically where items picked for review are inversely proportional to their rank. So this being the intuition that you try to display the best ones and. So what is the incentive for users to provide feedback? So we ask the user to provide feedback only when she wants feedback on the item that she has posted on. And of course we allow voting event without. Posting so do we have sufficient bandwidth so the point is that whenever an item that gets submitted that requires a review, we will get vote for two previous items because we asked two previous items to be compared. Then what is the probability that the item is called X wins? So again, to restate, a theorem is what we show is that if the inherent scores are normally distributed, then there is an is a comparison based algorithm that can get fairly good rank estimates for all items with a which is bounded feedback or constant feedback per item. So I won't go into the details too much, but there is one factor that tries to capture the intuition that if an item has been reviewed certain number of times. By the normal distribution and whenever we are comparing comparison based two thumbs based, we allowed twice as many thumbs comparison to the number of comparisons. This plus the cumulative density function, but essentially this shows that the scores do follow a normal distribution or a Gaussian curve, so our assumption to start with. To conclude, we presented comparison based ranking schemes. How do you pick items for review or in what order do you display says that you get users to rate on certain. So what is the ranking mechanism? Specific several facets to a ranking mechanism on such sites. The first is how do you seek reviews? So users browse items but in a separate section they can go and vote, or it could be tide where users view items like on YouTube and then whatever they like they can vote for that item. If star based, how many stars? You can bias the users to review on certain items by the order in which you display, so the order can be important. Alternatively, you could try to display the best ones, but then you might suffer from the rich gets richer problem.