[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello everyone, my name is Lucia. Today I will present my work to improve the accuracy of two view structure from motion which is a joint work with Pascal, Magnus and her normally in the Group of Imagine. In the lab now IGN.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
We will first recall the standard 2 view structure from motion given 2 images, we will generate features and produce an initial matches. Then we will apply a match selection strategy such as ransack to separate inliers and outliers. The fundamental matrix is estimated according to the inliers. Finally, given the intrinsic camera parameters, we can estimate the rotation and translation of the camera. To improve the accuracy of the structure from motion process, what we did is to use a better match selection strategy.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So to do that, we write our big question. If using all inliers for fundamental matrix estimation, the best thing to do in fact during the match selection stage, we do have the choice. Between using more matches with lower accuracy or less matches with higher accuracy. And our objective is to find a subset of most accurate matches to achieve a better structure for motion.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So we begin by studying the impact of quality and quantity of matches on the reconstruction errors. We ran our experiments on real on real data set where we can vary the quality by controlling the variance. Sigma 2D of match localization error and we can control the varying. The quantity by varying the number of matches. Here we measure reconstruction errors such as 3D point location error, camera rotation, and translation error. Besides, we note EF the average people line error for later use. What we observe is that the log of averaged reconstruction error is linear to log of Sigma 2D and log of N with respectively the regression coefficient Alpha and manners beta. However, Alpha and beta depends on the on the match configurations. And we also observe that EF is more or less proportional to Sigma 2D, which is good for us becausw in our case only EF is observable.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The previous relations can be transformed to relation three, which can be used for error comparison. Considering the case that Alpha over Alpha and beta very are very unstable, we say that knowing Alpha over beta is sufficient to compare the error, such as expressed in relation 4A, lower error reconstruction error is a means that a smaller ratio EF 2A over beta divided by the number of match so. What we want to do is to find a subset of matches which can have a smaller ratio than using the total number of inliers.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Unfortunately, even Alpha over beta is very unstable according to our experiments. But we observed that Alpha over beta is superior to two for almost 4 almost things. So we look for lower bound gamma smaller than Alpha over beta, which is enough for us to compare errors. Such as the relation six. We say that gamma equal to two is a safe value for every for most things. And besides, Alpha over beta equal to two is theoretically proved for the case of Homographic transformation. If we set gamma to zero, we come back to the traditional way, saying that we will take as much as possible the inliers.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So our goal is to find a subset N which minimize F squared divided by the number of matches. However, exploring all subsets is impractical and will have a lot of biased local minimum. Our solution here is to use a scoring function file in which a smaller value of five means a better quality of a match. We sought other matches according to this scoring function, and then for every given N we will only consider the subset which is which consists of the top matches in the sorted list. In fact, to further improve our performance in terms of time, we will only consider a fraction of possible value of N start started from 40% of the total number of of the inliers. Sorry.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Here the scoring function 5 is very important to our algorithm and it varies with the kind of feature. Four shift. We found the match localization error correlates with the scale of detected features and the descriptor difference. So for us we will make a brutal choice which is a product of these two effects. Of these two parameters to be our function file.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So we transformed the standard pipeline to the following. Given 2 images, we generate the features and initial matches. The initial matches are then passed through a photometric filter called K VLD which removes. Almost. All the inliers without introducing any bias. Because we want to do our selection among the inliers, then the the footage matches are ordered using the function 5. And considering the given number and we will construct the subsets for each possible value of N. For each subset, we run the RANSAC process and compute the ratio I have mentioned before. Here so we select the the model which minimize this ratio, and it turns out to be a very accurate model. So he.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Here we have fulfilled our objective of finding a subset of most accurate matches for a better structure from motion accuracy. In dependently we can also refine the future position of existing of existing matches to increase the quality of our match and we want to combine this approach to our match selection process.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
In this field, there exists a very famous method called List Square matching which tried to. Find the the affinity transformation. Which minimize the dissimilarity of the Patch. Dissimilarity of intensity of patches.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
We extend a little bit this method by two ways. First, we apply an irregular grid over the Patch in which the sampling in the center is twice denser than a sampling on the border, and we apply a Goshen weights as well. We also add an image scale exploration process to increase the robustness to local minima.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The refinement can be added before selection without problem with one thing to change.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
I have said that fine for Sift features is related to the detection, scale and descriptor difference, but for refined matches we need a new file, which in our case is a combination of this similarity of patches and sharing or affinity. For more informations please read our paper for this definition.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So now let's go to the experiment. We run our algorithms over 2 commonly used datasets. The first one is structured data set where we test 95 image pairs. Four things our algorithm can be applied for for for every RANSAC method. So we select five ransack methods oriented to accuracy and for each ransack we compute the rotation and translation error. By the standard method in the first column. And our by standard method plus match selection in the second one, the match refinement process in the third one and finally the combined combined method in the first card. And we can see that our gain here is is between 1.7 to two in terms of rotation and from 1.6 to 2.5 in terms of translation.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
We we did the same thing using digital robots datasets where we compare 108 image pairs. Here we didn't observe an obvious gain in terms of translation. Sorry of rotation, but in terms of translation our gain is up to seven 3.7.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Here we show in detail the rotation and translation error. For each thing. We can observe that our approach in green performs almost better for each thing than the standard method RANSAC in red.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Now I want to visualize our improvement by picking up a pair of images. We compute the point cloud using the ground truth, rotation and translation in black and. Using RANSAC method in red. And with our method in green, we can observe that the pointcloud we have produced. By our algorithm in the circulated area. I'm much closer than much closer to the ground truth than the standard RANSAC method.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
The difference can also be observed in terms of depth, so we pick up another pair of image and take a top view of the generated point cloud. Again, in the circulated area, our algorithm produce a point cloud which is closer to the ground truth than the standard method standard method of RANSAC.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
To conclude, we have developed a better match selection strategy for two view structure from from motion accuracy which better balance the quality and quantity. It can be combined with a refinement process, which makes even better results. In the in the future, our work will be an extension too much view which will take into consideration about check selection and the reduction or reduction. It's not a easy work, but it is possible. And for track refinement, I think it's not a trigger work. The source code is available since yesterday on guitar and will be actively updated in the following days and thank you for your attention. Hi, you didn't seem to take into account the distribution of the points in the image like I would expect you to want to take points distributed all over the image. If all points were were local localized only in the center of the image then this would not give you a good homography or whatever. On the and, if I understood correctly, you actually encouraged the points to be in the center of the image. Oh no, we don't encourage the points to be in the center of the image, so maybe I misunderstood that, but you don't take into account that the points are well distributed across the image. We are aware about the configuration of the distribution of matches in the image, because it in fact affect the reconstruction error. But in our process we don't take into account of this effect, but we try to. We try to avoid to come too. Through the dangerous room. So we start by considering 40% of total matches. Does it answer your question? More less and four if you want to discuss more about about this thing, you can come to see my poster in this afternoon. Thank you. Just a quick question on the last few slides you showed the alignment of the point clouds to the ground truth.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
I was just confused.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
How the ground truth points are behind and in front of the actual wall? So why are there?

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So many black points floating around this one on this slide because it for top view and this points points here in fact are from the roof of the building. OK understand I see. When I got the res.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
That's right, your improved least squares matching in fact did not always improve the results, and sometimes it actually. Let them know.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
First, I was wondering whether you comment on that point. I think in our in our paper we have compared to least square matching and this is a minor contribution for us and we have improved for about 50% of the result. Something like that.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So when you have these points, can you comment on what should I do in the next step? So usually this all goes to bundle adjustment, right? So do I use all in various now in bundle adjustment or just the ones you selected here? I mean, do you have any feel about that? Sorry this sounds so wrong. I didn't hear very clear, so I think this general idea of balancing quality and quantity is not limited to ransack. Or you can use bundle adjustment. We have studied only for that review case and we are working on Mountain View, but I think the basic idea is general. OK, thank you so the next speaker please.
