As tools really connected so it will not be clear at the beginning how automate are connected to this logic, but that will be the purpose of say, the last part here when we go from the new calculus who alternating parity tree automata, special kind of automata and vice versa, and in between between automata that we can use already as objects to accept a language of models like you already know, but finite state automata. Sets of trees, finite trees, infinite trees. OK, I missed out that position I, but that's not a big issue. And even in this path, I tell you that there exists a path. Is very important when you think of programs where the programs in is an open system and you have some user which is going to enter a value. And so, but the city and stuff. It's a tree, so to make the connection between the trees. And again come here, so you may play trying to draw this this this tree, but the tree is all possible future in the executions that you may derive from this final structure. But I mean if you first trust me a bit. Here you can think of it as a set of propositions. I look at AA is a set of propositions. OK. If you want binary trees, you have to give me directions to go down the tree. If I want trees of degree Ki need K directions from zero to K -- 1 or 412K as you like. OK, so here what we have is that if I want to characterize the position in the in the in the tree in the full binary tree, I have to tell you how to go down so I can go down. And how do I move from a node to its child? So it's written like this, so it means an empty sequence of zero and one is the empty word, and it's the address of the root of this tree. Elements of Sigma and trees. So Critical Section 1 means the. So the states of the program, the entire program with two entities working together is a bit vector. The things that they can express with a missile when additional logic will not be able to. Express with the new calculus for the good reason that the mu calculus. So it means that it cannot make a difference between the grid or some unraveling of the grid as a tree. So what are the monadic 2nd order logic? Actually that is a city else or formula, but I call it city because it's it's in a well known fragmente. Which is in the set of nodes. Really to have here. So the formal approach, one of the possibilities, of course there are other ways, but one very standard way to do to deal with this is to use Kripke structures as models, so this you've seen already with a rash of grey. So you have states you have a transition relation between states. So it can be split into relations that are labeled like R_something like a letter that tells you that it's a event that makes you move from one word, one state to the other, and you have also something very important is the knowledge we have about the state, which is a you have a set of propositions that enable you to talk about things and you have a labeling of states with these propositions. Which tell you which propositions are true in that state. Alright, so let's come back to the mutual exclusion. Is waiting to enter the critical section. And this week before we use them too, for being in the critical section for the processes. I mean, it's a matter of encoding and that's it, right?