[0.0s - 29.0s]
I've been a big fan of this for a long time and it's been a few years since I've been here, so it's really good to be back. I thought about bringing a 6 pack of beer and and telling people that they get a beer if they ask a question, but maybe I'll just depend on your goodwill. So I would. I would much rather prefer this. Be a discussion and if I can provoke you into making comments and jumping up and saying I'm wrong, I think that's great 'cause that's.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
That's what makes this more fun. Before I do that, I wanted to mention someone asked last night about whether it's a computational or a data problem or algorithm problem. I thought about some more. An computation is not an issue anymore, so there's a whole bunch of people that have these large Hadoop clusters. You know, we've got. We've got a couple couple of 'em at Yahoo there thousand machines per. Hadoop is hoop is the software from the Apache Foundation that does MapReduce, which is one way of doing this. But with these big machines, computational things shouldn't be a problem. I mean, they're paying to program still, but you know this is, you know, 1000 servers, 8000 CPUs. And they're all pretty pretty fast, so we should be not thinking, not worrying about computation apart anymore. 'cause there's plenty, plenty computational power, and especially for the algorithms that we do in perception because they're so highly parallel. At least the way I think about things.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
They should be highly parallel. David, remind me this slide earlier. It says bummer of a birthmark Hal, so I'm going to stand up here and you can shoot questions at me all you want. And I'll Dodge if it gets too bad, or else I'll deal with it later if we're running out of time by doing courage questions. Up yeah yes I will try. This is one of my favorite slides. Figures this is she had shames. Um? Re plotting re sorting of Saxon Youngs cat data for a vowel. And I think and it's pretty wonderful because there's an amazing lap detail in here. I could spend an hour just talking about this one plot alone. The formants, the pitch tracks, the timing. What's locking to the different phases? It's pretty wonderful and it definitely influenced how I think about the world. One because I don't believe it's just the spectral world, I believe that the timing matters a lot and.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And that definitely influenced. Work I did with the kilogram over the years where my way of thinking about the auditory world. In this case I've turned it upside down. But start with the waveform. The basilar membrane turns it into some firing probabilities which we are not. We're not showing the timing here. This is a much, much reduced version of what you saw earlier, but then if you look at the fine time structure you get the program.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Which which is certainly been a good way for me to analyze and think about sound and the capital gains access are for those who haven't seen before. Frequency or bezel memory position along the vertical axis and autocorrelation time lags much like what she was doing with pitch along the horizontal axis. And then there's all sorts of interesting things you can do with it. Lord of astronomy. Oh oh, in the dark vertical lines, follow what the muscles in my throat. Now I will change the shape of my mouth but keep the same pitch with my throat. Oh oh it yes yes. What sounds that come out of my mouth? Fascinating. If I had such a machine, I could tell who it is that was speaking by the vertical pitch and what was said by the horizontal. So excuse the simplistic version of the narrative, but. I've always thought this is a very useful way of thinking about how sound is organized and how the brain thinks about silent, how how the brain separate sounds into different objects, the auditory scene analysis.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And we spent a whole bunch of time. This is back in the late 80s, early 90s, when I was at Apple working to client who's now Google thinking about? How do we take this representation and turn it back into sound and. We were very happy because. We we did figure out how to turn it back into sound so we can take those movies that you saw and reconstruct the original sound an that's an important step because that says that the representation doesn't lose any information as perceptually relevant or important. So if we if we turn it back on, if we turn the call again and then turn it back into town and got something different, that means we threw something away that was important. So all the information is there. And so we were very very, very happy. And we thought we could do all sorts of wonderful things. Without representation. Lower, lower dimensional than the spectrogram higher dimension. No. Right? Well, it's so we've we've. No, that's good. So it's changed it into a different representation, 'cause we're looking at time now again, but. Well, you know, somewhere up in your class or something where we think this process is happening but but we're still subcortical. And we thought we still do it, though we can't point any Physiology that proves it. But this is the right kind of processing to think about, and we're happy. And we could. We could, we could invert it an this is a subject of a nips keynote many years ago, which is my first experience with NIPS and then we thought we could start picking up pieces of it. So we had I should. We had this example of a musical thing where we had a vocalist instrumental, and then the combination in the middle. And so this was the ultimate scene analysis problem where we want to take the singer in separate from the instrumental track, and you can sort of see it in the program, but it's really, really hard to pick it out. But then we thought about some more Ann. We got really unhappy and. Then happiness is the subject of this talk, because I now think that the work that we did on kilogram version was the wrong thing to do. It really doesn't matter that we can invert it, because I don't think that's what the brain does. I don't think the brain takes these representations and turns it back into sound, which is how most of us and I can say. This is an engineer. Most of us think about things bottom up and re creating waveforms and we want to have a form in the end so we can play to people and say, look, we've done auditory scene analysis, but the point of this talk is to say that auditory scene analysis is not done. By separating out two waveforms. And I want to, you know, go through the evidence for that and get you thinking about the.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Issues, so there's a bunch of different problems in how this world works and. The simplest one is this example by Al Bregman an I don't know if the speaker is going to do the right thing, but let me let me play it for you and hopefully you get the right idea. This is, uh, the idea of tones and noise being interrupted or having a sequence of tones, beep, beep, beep, beep if you put some noise in the middle. If the noise is the right level, then you'll hear the tone being continuous. Which I think is a pretty wonderful illusion. Presented tone alternating with the silence. Replaced by a soft white noise. After each group of cycles, the noise is increased in intensity. Spectrum level of the noise is the same as that of the tone. At this setting, the tone seems continuous behind the noise. So did everybody hear the tone continues at the end? So that's a pretty wonderful losing because as you saw that from the way the sound was constructed, there was no tone there. I mean the tone with the gap was still there, and so all of you guys were hallucinate ING this tone, so I think it's pretty wonderful. OK, good both of you. Raise your hand so. OK. Well, this is Al Bregman's example, so I think it's I think it's probably the right way to do this is to have the same power spectrum within a critical band. I think is what he's trying to say. Well. Actually, well, it's not there in the sense that there's no periodicity at that tone frequency there, so there's a lot of energy at the in the band. If you write software to look for Tony yeah, it won't be there. There's a better example and I unfortunately can't find it. I don't have it with me on this trip, but there's a sentence where someone reads a sentence political sentence. I forget what it was, but in the middle of it, they put a cough and they they created this thing by taking the speech waveform. In, exercising the waveform and putting that off in place of it. And I know you've heard it. I don't know who else heard it. I'm sorry I don't have it with me, but you play for people and. Can you ask him if they heard a cough and they all say yes and you say well where was the cough? And no one can tell you where an they all heard. The sentence is perfectly normal, which is pretty amazing, because half the word Parliament is missing. So that's I think a better example than the tone because. Neglect phase. Well, so the principle behind this, it wasn't point or the principle behind this, is if there's enough energy in a massacre to mask the real signal, then the auditory system will perceive the sound is still being there because as I talked about in a little bit, there's this principle of old plus new, so you're hearing this sentence about this political system. They start saying Parliament, and there's something else interrupts it. And your auditory system is perfectly willing to hallucinate. Maybe not the right word. That fact that it heard the word Parliament, even though it wasn't there because there was enough energy in the cough. That it could be there. But it just couldn't detect it, so you know if you make the the noise levels low enough in the in the tone clips, then when it's when the noise level is lower than you definitely interrupted tone because there's not enough evidence to make it look like it's still there. But when you get high enough up, then you'll hear it all the way through. The other example I've heard is where the tones rising. And so then you interrupt interrupt it and then you hear the tone rising continuously through that. Absolutely. Absolutely. I think as long as it's I think, as long as it masks. I mean, as long as it could be there as long as the auditory system could see, could could understand that it's still there, it'll it'll. It'll hear it that way. Yes. As long as I mean lungs, the relative levels are right. Measure. People heard a sound. Is that for simple things like tones? Yeah. Auditory induction is the right way to scribing it. So the. Oh so this. I mean, this brings up the question if two people are speaking at the same time, do you hear both voices? I mean obviously you can. You can sort of follow with both poster saying an I think the question that we should be asking is how the brain does it. And this is true of music or voice. It's all the same and the question that I think I want you guys to think about as we talk about all this is do you hear individual waveforms. So do you hear ideas? So yes you can hear conversations or you can hear a tone with noise, but are you really picking out a wave form that says? Here's a tone? And you're in your brains doing separation? Or is it just saying I hear tone? I hear some noise, but the tones could be still there. I hear some more tone. There's this high level concept that you're thinking about, not.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Actual waveforms an this all gets back to. An idea that that started the computer vision world known as Pure Vision, which was David Marr's theory of how vision works back in the late 80s, I believe where he said the visual system start off these very low level primitives. Informal mid level objects and informed objects and people have done the same sort of thing with the visual with the auditory system with a very simple input waveform. Memory does this thing have a spectrogram? You have a credit card or some other feature representation. And you notice that all these arrows point the same way. There's no arrows going the other direction, and the figure on the left is Lloyd Watts. Summary of what the auditory system looks like, and he did very detailed job, and he's very smart. But you notice that there's very few arrows that are pointing down, and I think that one of the problems with what we've been doing is that the we like to think and certainly like to think as an auditory. As an engineer, that the world's bottom up, I can build things from very simple primitives and go higher and higher. And what I want to argue today is that that's. Completely wrong, we can't go that far. We can't do that 'cause we can't explain how the audio.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The system works if we do that. I want to play some examples and show you some examples of why the system is messy and I like the first one because one it's musical. In two it took me quite awhile to figure out what was going on. This is Miriam Makeba talking about a song that she sings called the wedding song. And I think it's interesting because when you listen to it, she says, she says some of the stuff in it in the click language to start with. So here we're talking about it. And she says the language. And I can't say it. But there's a click in the middle of it, and it sounds like speech. It sounds. Like speech, I haven't heard before, but it's definitely speech an. Then she starts singing and for me it was really hard to figure out that the clicks that she was doing were actually part of her speech and that part of the instrumental track. So when I heard this song, my musical background said clicks are initialement not a speech sound and so my background affected how we heard this sound. Village in Johannesburg. There is a song that we always sing when a young girl gets married. It's called the click song by the English because they cannot save on time. Eat please. Then turning. Then love. So you know, here is at least my non African years hearing hearing speeches. As you know, being grouped with instrumental track, different cases, sideways speech with it. I suspect all of you have heard where you just take the form and replace them with sine waves and so very reduced representation. And I don't know how many of you will understand the sentence from this. Who? But half OK, it's definitely easier for native speakers of English. Here's original sentence. And then here's the sine wave again, which will all be obvious. So it's really interesting, because now that you've been primed, you'll definitely hear this speech. I mean, it's hard not to hear this speech. YouTube. So. You know a simple a simple change in your expectations completely changes how you perceive these three sine waves. You know, no longer musical their real speech signal, and that's really pretty striking to me that we can do that. So the way that I didn't do this is Robert Image. I'm glad you asked Robert Matthews at Haskins. I think it's. They just take the formant frequencies and replace them with sine waves. And I don't know if this is done automatically or manually it might've been done manually, so do spectrogram. Look for all the peaks in the spectrogram and just pick three biggest ones and put make him sine waves. You seem surprised that it works. Well, the reason the reason it doesn't sound like the original speech is because actually this is interesting for this group because. You've lost all the harmonic relationships that that caused the speech to hang together again, so you've got these three sine waves that are doing independent three sideways doing independent things, but they're not harmonically grouped. Because they were following individual formance. And so you've lost an important grouping to you. So, so it's actually interesting, so you've lost the grouping Q that would put the forms together, but then once you hear this speech, then there's another thing saying this is speech. All these sine waves should be heard together. So I guess another way of thinking about it is depending on what you're expecting, you get your group at different ways.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Another example. Stand by Peter Lego Phogat an. This is some vowels that he recorded an just think about what you're going to hear. There's there's. As an example, and then there's going to be a word at the end and think about the word at the end. Please say what this lady is but. So that's the first one, second one. Big. And then here's the third one. This bird is dead. So most people here, the first one is but the second one is bit a third one is bad and the thing that's brilliant amusing about this is that the waveform. For the second and third sounds are exactly the same. So the waveform didn't change the pattern. The buzzer membrane didn't change. But yet you heard it is two different words likely heard it is two different words, and so again, some contexts. In this case he changed the format positions and change the overall average spectrum of the introductory sentence and so that long term average affected how you heard. You know this this waveform at the end, even though they were identical, and so again something that's very long term, is affecting the Pretty Little reception. You would think that button. That bit are pretty pretty low level perception. It's a pretty easy decision to make. I want to talk about some other examples to make the make it a little more complicated, a little more interesting. These are some examples first done well, I first heard about from Patricia Churchland who was using this to criticize appear vision approach, but it has an auditory twist, which I think is interesting. So here's a movie, and when I play the movie. I suspect all of you guys see the motion from left to right. Right? No ambiguity there. So let's look at a different example, and so we've moved to the dots. Does anybody still see motion? So you know this is a very long term. I mean far effect when you got that's out here and that's affecting this very global property of what's going on in the system about whether this objects moving back and forth. So removing two dots has completely changed, their perception is normal. You didn't see motion in the first one, OK? Well, just back and forth. Yeah, you don't. I can't you can ask me 'cause I I've been doing this so long. OK, well if you didn't see that you have a hard one with hard time with the third one 'cause this was this was harder. So this is the same thing, but now we've added. Now we've added an auditory stimuli and this is kind of dicey because we don't have really enough separation on the speakers, but in the right conditions you can add an auditory stimuli by using left and right and this dot, which is just turning it off will appear to move back and forth. So if you can do this, but. Let me get a motion still. It's hard, especially 'cause the baseline so long, but it's it's an interesting effect because. You know when it works, right? It's an example. You have to take my word for it when it works right, you have this very low level procept of audio. That's controlling how how you perceive the visual world, and it's pretty amazing that that can happen. Another example of that is the Merc McGurk effect. Is everybody in the group today not seen it? So the market is really wonderful and I think the best way to do it is to start off in a second with eyes closed and listen to the sound and identify the the speech sound you're hearing. Think about in your head what speech another hearing and then after five repetitions open your eyes and look at the screen. And listen to the sound and think about what you hear so so close your eyes and listen to the sound for a few cycles. Bar. Far. Now open 'em and look. MA. Bar. Mark so. In this earlier example we had the oops. Sorry in the other example we had. Effect auditory stimuli affecting how you perceive the visual world. In this case, we have a visual effect. Changing how you how you perceive the auditory world. So as someone who grew up as an engineer where you have nice arrows that go up and you know the rules are nice, nice, nice world.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
All the examples sort of RMS, so in the sine wave case we have speech. This is about whether speech is not affecting how you group the object in the wedding song. We have your concept of what an object is, whether it's music or speech affecting how you perceive the speech. In the Peter Lego foot example, your environment affects how you perceive the vowel sounds, even though it's you know several seconds apart. Ventriloquism second example, where your vision you know seeing this dummies, hand moving back and forth affects. You know where you perceive the location of a sound. With the dots and audio location decision, you know you hearing the sound. Move back and forth affects your vision and finally. In America, affect your vision effects. How you how you hear speech? So.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
It's an interesting modeling problem, and so certainly one attempt to do a model would be just to do this. Which is not very pleasing. And So what I want to talk about instead is.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Is a simpler version where it's really important that we keep track of information flowing up into the brain, which is what we've been doing so well over the last. 50 years and what information is flowing back down from expectations from the cortex that's affecting how you perceive the world. And I think that's really important. I drew these arrows massively. Asymmetric asymmetric one study I've seen it says 60% is down 40% up in terms of of neural counts, efforts and efforts, but I don't think anybody really knows. But certainly the information going down from cortex into other lower parts of the brain is a lot and we've all been ignoring it, and I think that's a bad thing to do. So what I want to talk about in the remaining time was some notable examples where people have. Made use of contexts. Well, top down constraints to solve the problem and I think we need to do more of this because it's really important that our expectations are context drive perception.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And we've been ignoring it. Certainly the best example of all this is speech recognition. I love how many of you are familiar with the history of speech recognition, but the only reason speech recognition is possible in any commercial sense at all is because of this top level model called the language model, which puts a very very heavy constraint on what phonemes and what words can follow whatever sounds. And so if you move the language model, performance is just horrible. If you get you get, you know. You know half the words wrong if you will. I mean, you just do really, really, really poorly. But by adding this language constraint it turns it into a problem that can be soluble and that you know you can actually afford to run on a cell phone, for example, and so that's probably the most the best example of a top down constraint. That's that's, you know, solve the problem.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
It's a problem that we can solve. I want to talk about something real to this group, which is computational scene analysis, either audio or for speech or music, and this is sort of the generic model that Dan Ellis did based on Guy Brown's thesis based on their reading of ALS book in computational auditory scene analysis. And again this is sort of a very more approach to the world you have a funny and producing some sort of representation. You have some sort of basic objects. This is the mid level that David Mark talks about. Fixing modulation. On set that gives you some discrete events that you're going to look at. Yes, some sort of grouping rules, so one grouping rule is that any any frequencies that all have announced at the same time are probably part of the same object. And then from that you can group and into sounds, and so that's the basic model that a lot of people have been working with for about 10 years.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And it's been moderately successful, and I think the best example is see Barker's work at Sheffield where. He applied this to speech recognition problem, but but sort of tide the loop around by adding some high level information. In his case, the high level information was a speech recognizer and so his basic idea. Was to label individual groups with very low level information saying OK, these are harmonically related, so they're probably part of the same group, but I don't know what else is going on. And he's going to have all these different groups labeled, so this is very low level perceptual grouping. Not nothing very involved here, but you know there's no way to say that this is associated with. This was associated with that from this low low information and what he does is he forms all possible combinations and evaluates everyone. And evaluate some through a speech recognizer. So this is a decoder step an each one is being checked to see whether it can explain a valid set of words, and then what comes out is the words you recognize and then which particular set of objects caused that to be recognized. Images. That's true, yeah, I hadn't thought about that. Yeah, Larry Agreeded, who's also here today. So yeah, so that's that's worked. And again, it's a top down constraint that works, makes it where the thing that makes this computational reasonable is that he doesn't have to keep track of these different objects for a long period of time. So there might be 20 different hypothesis is at once being evaluated. But again, the only constraint in this case is that the words the words that are formed have to be valid sequence of English words. So there's no concept of high level knowledge or anything else that's driving the context. It's just just the word sequence.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Masataka Goto in Japan. I don't have a figure for his work. He told me about it is near is been doing and also tailing said something about doing this with doing music recognition but having a prior or having information coming from the outside which is a MIDI sequence so we can't do the general problem of. Pick out all the notes that you know you're hearing in a musical piece that you know in a performance. But if you give it a strong constraint in this case, the actual sequence of notes, then you can fix the timing. You can identify which parts of the spectrum which peaks are part of which notes, and so that's been a powerful way of solving the problem, so it's not the final solution, but but it's a way of making a lot of progress that I think is really good, and I think things like this are important. You know what sort of context can you apply to the problem to make it soluble 'cause you know our brains are doing all that stuff? And we can't. We can't function without all.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Context. So, as I alluded to before, the basic principle of auditory scene analysis is this idea that alcohols old plus new principle and the idea is that if you're hearing something you default assumption as you continue to hear it, so you don't expect me to all the sudden side, you know, talking in Japanese, or if you're hearing a tone and it's interrupted by noise, you expect the tone to go through unless you have evidence to the contrary and so. This I should have done this example, but I think it will understand it. So if you have this, if you have this spectrogram, so this is a. Some some noise with a little extra blip on it. You know you added some other noise on top. Your way of perceiving this will be here. This continuous sequence of noise, because that's what you know. That's your model, and then every once in awhile you hear this actually blip of noise, and so that will form a separate object. So that's a very simple model of context and expectations that drives how you do perception.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And Dan took that principle Dan Ellis and turned it into a auditory analysis system that he called the prediction driven system. Where basically, you're you're following hypothesis. You know some sort of noise and periodic component making up. Saying this is this is your model of the world. This is a model of what you've heard. I'm hearing tone now and then that's fed back and that forms the basis of your perception and new stuff. So if you continue doing the same stuff, all is fine. There's nothing new going on. You say there's still a tone here, but if there's an error in the prediction, you've got extra energy. You can't explain then that extra energy becomes a new object that has a hypothesis, and you tie the loop together. And if this was a hypothesis, was that this is going to be a speech sentence? Then all these tones would be grouped together because you're expecting speech and so you want to all the formats and. So this is strong hypothesis is strong prediction that is going to be speech, and so you know you tie it all together. So that's why the sine wave speech works. So this is this hasn't gone anywhere in the last five years. 10 years Dan's been out. 510 years now. It's a very hard problem because it's really hard to build models of what? What are present state is? I mean, we're very complicated, meaning so you don't know what's going through my head now, and so it's really hard to build a model of all that and so.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Instead, I've been intrigued with this idea of of can you do something similar as something similar? I've been thinking about is salience. So this is Christoph Kaiser's work, who's got what I say to begin in Germany few years ago, a couple years ago building a auditory saliency map that's trying to predict when sounds are novel and interesting, and it turns out there's a lot of workshops set of talks right now here at NIPS on. Auditory attention. Very much like this, but in the auditory attention auditory side. I'm sorry in the visual side. The visual side is better developed, so there's a whole bunch of people doing research on the visual side of saliency. And there there, using this this discussion as a way of saying, is this a precursor to attention. So you listen to me speak and all of a sudden you hear this, you know, in the auditory cases it's changing your attention. Just like if I do this, it's going to grab your attention up to my hand. And so those are both. Those are both perceptually salient effects, and in Kaiser's model he basically looking for changes, intensity changes in frequency, and changes in time. Building these centers around filters, combining all across different scales and then coming up with a map of how salient different things are. So this is.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
This is this is an example, he's got some chirps going on with some noise. It looks like showing here this is original spectrogram and then these. These things are the places he's determined are our most salient that are most likely to divert your attention, and I think what's interesting about those those are the ones that are most likely to form a new object, so it's a very simple model of object formation in the auditory system, because each one of these is most likely to get your auditory system inside inform something new. What is?

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Well, so this is his model. This combination of things so he's looking for changes, intensity changes in frequency. You know things that aren't consistent in frequency and changes in time. And he's got some simple. Psychoacoustics are showing that this is reasonable, but this is just the first step. I think we can do a lot better than that. The visual system is very much similar to that, and there's a work by Ed. I think his first name, Ian Koch is sort of. The ultimate reference for the visual side, and I think he's just doing the same thing for auditory that needed for visual system.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
But I think it's interesting, and here's some examples of selling some apps. So here's a short tone you don't do very much with it, but a long term has a bigger pattern. Some broadband noise with a gap in that that's also celliant in some sense, stationary tones aren't very salient, but if you have some modulation on it, then it's very salient and. You know the 1st first tone in a sequence is very salient, but the second one is not as salient. So these are all things that are consistent with how we perceive how the auditory system should be working, and I think it's interesting and. With pursuing.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
I'm gonna skip ahead because I wanna talk about something else that we did some more time do I have? OK, this is some work that we did at in tell you ride on. Trying to model these top down bottom up effects. This is some stuff that writing Douglas calls relational networks, which is a lot like a feedforward feedback neural network, but I think it's interesting because the arrows between these groups. These are different populations of neurons actually have meanings and so you can interpret what these mean and so in this case this constraint between MX that's a linear constraint. And we use this.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
2. To build a speech recognizer that had a top down constraint involved. So this is a new physiologically. Motivated network of neurons that recognizes speech and has this very strong top down constraint. So this is an easy problem for hidden Markov model to solve because it has the language model we're trying to do the same thing with with neuron.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
In this network an we did this very simple test with a pair of pair of phonemes. So we wanted to see if the system could recognize anything in particular sequence and this just shows you how it works. So if you have patterns that are detecting a pattern detecting E and then you have two other ones, one saying Ian the if you have no input, you get no output. If you have an R coming in then the RE Patch is going to get excited 'cause it's hearing part of what it wants to hear and this is without feedback and the part that's interesting is if you add feedback then the systems feeding back information saying OK. I've heard something. I expect to be in East 'cause I get the first in the first part, but maybe you should be looking for an E in the second position and so the phoneme Patch will be primed and partly responsible. Partly responsive to the. To the idea that he might be coming through, and then if you if you do actually give up the whole REE, then you get a strong response here. So that's one way of doing that. This is a bunch of simulations showing the same thing. We implemented this in neurons in Silicon neurons at entire I'd. Sue's were you there for that one. A couple of years ago and this is the same kind of thing showing.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Up and I have to say that this is very similar to see Grossberg's art, although unfortunately doesn't do a very good job explaining it, but this idea that you have these feedback loops is part of Steve's work and is shown in this particular figure for his art papers.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Taillon remind me this morning that. Statistical means are really important to this, and ICA has a very simple I see has a surprisingly simple. Contacts are bias or prior, but yet it still works and so this is showing the bottom where you know. Basically ICA saying the distributions from one signal in the other signal must be different. So there's a very simple thing saying, OK, I got two signals. All I know about is that the probability distributions are different, so that's just shown here. We have a sine wave and in a speech signal or something. Here we have different distributions in this space. I see I can find it the very basic ICAS, just doing probability distributions. There's nothing high level about it and what's going to be interesting is that we can start moving up in doing higher level models of sound.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So this is. This is what? I think a lot of us have been thinking about me included, and I think it's wrong. You know, it sounds come in. They go through auditory system. They go in the brain and what comes out are signals that we can. We can plot, and more importantly, we want to listen to him and I'd love to listen these signals. I mean, you really want to hear the sounds and I want to argue and hopefully I convinced you that that's.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
The wrong way of thinking about it. I think a better way to think about it was shown here where two signals come in. You have some sort of bias. In this case you're expecting something about jungles, and So what you hear is something having to do with the concept of elephant an. You know this is this is blank for a reason because you know, I don't think we're doing anything with the other sound. I mean we were attending to 1 sound. We can share, but essentially attention is a one. One item thing. And what the system is doing, both with music and with speech, is thinking about concepts. I've heard... I predict an elephant and the one thing that I want to encourage all of you to think about going forward is, I suspect that this expectation is constantly changing, so you're hearing something you're expecting. Something about jungles. But then you got evidence that changes that, so expectation changes so. You know we have to start somewhere, so this isn't a criticism. But battalions work assumes that there's one model to start with, and that's the model through the whole system, which is fine, but going forward we have to start thinking about how that changes with time based on the evidence we have.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So I'm going to say thank you and there's my email address.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
But let me go back to this 'cause I think this is a better side. So thank you. All the way back to the middle ear. I mean, there's there's evidence in auditory system that goes all the way back to the middle ear, so there's neural inference that will change the mechanics of the middle ear. And it's really amazing. I mean, I don't know what the loops all look like. I wish I do. I wish I did, so there's definitely loops involved in the vaginal membrane. Universal outer hair cell, and. I I don't know if it's local or if it goes back up into your click list. I don't know how high that loop goes. You know for the. That's true, there's yeah, this across all the others. But is it also local 2 or not, you know. Within the inner hair cell outer hair cell before the auditory nerve. Yeah, so it's definitely feedback. Going from one year to the other year up through your class, I think there's also feedback below the auditory nerve. But I don't know. I don't know how I can show you where it is, but it's all over the place. Party. OK so 5% going up and. Only 5% coming down. Well, it's definitely global in this, probably local too. I think I think. I mean, I don't want to, you know, stand up and defend that forever. But there's a lot of feedback everywhere, and so everywhere we look, there's feedback. Without priors like this, pretty picture is really going to be crappy at source, absolutely. Evidence to suggest that, in other words, you should be able to say like I give an ICA, we construct you sets of data with which I see is really good, involved, and then that humans are only good at the ones where they have prior knowledge as well. So good example from you is I was in Japan at a cocktail party. An everybody speaking English, so that's great, but I realized that it was a lot easier for me to understand the native English speakers than the native native speakers. So the native speakers were speaking with the positive and the pitch in the durations I expected. The non natives had quote accent and it wasn't following my my expectations and so is alot harder to understand them. So. You know there's a whole bunch of expectations going into all this stuff, and we you know we we can do some stuff I guess. But expectations in top down stuff is driving all of it. Separating sources of like completely novel timbre just so that there was some made some some smoothness constraint on the two sources. Yeah, well we have this. We have this very rich environment where you listen to me. You're here in this fan, I mean. Able to model a lot of different sounds, you know whose day was talking this morning. I don't know whether this is learned or innate. I'd love to know that question too. Right? Right, well yeah. I mean, I think it's more along this line. You know you've heard enough information to say that this elephant in the sentence. Or Parliament, and you're going to go with that. So I don't want to say that people, I mean you're a good example. I mean, I don't say you're doing the wrong thing because you're creating waveforms 'cause you know we've gotta. We've gotta take baby steps to get where we want to go. But only evaluating a system based on how well it produces audio. Is not the right answer from modeling how the brain works. Perception. Formed by wisps of sensory that's great. I'm sure there is, but I don't know what. I don't know how to. Prove it, I don't know how to show it. I mean, it would make sense given everything we've seen about the auditory system and and cognition and all that kind of stuff. And that's what makes it so hard to investigate because. Feedback loops are really hard to understand. And we can't like cut the feedback. So. These sounds that are not there. Do you think they also create new expectations? Um? Jim opinion I don't. Probably not. I mean, I don't know, maybe this is the engineering speaking that you know nothing forms without evidence. I don't know. Willing to go this far on them. I'm not willing to go. Excellent and in looking at a lot of the research has been going on, especially people it is trying to look at higher level sort of relay. I wonder what you think about the idea of having the arrow sort of really closing the loop. So I was really influenced by this book by Andy Clark called Being that's for about 10 years ago and the whole book is about basically that cognition requires taking careful account of what's going on in the world and our ability to arrange the world such that we can be maximally lazy effectively. You know we use paper and pencil. The whole digits for us. When we do long division because we're too lazy to hold them in our header were incapable right? And you see this at all levels of perception that, for example, if we're trying to figure something out about a sound, we move ahead a little bit, which gives a little bit more phase information. And I keep thinking that this this idea of saliency could be in some way extended to be active. So we're basically going to be trying to, you know, if something is too salient, it's going to bother us. We're going to try to resolve it to something. It just seems so at some level. What we're doing is trying to make sense of the world by. I love this. I love to see a model of that. If you want to build 1. There might even be some communication theory thing about it because it is going to be more efficient if you measure the differences between what you know already, right? We're expecting that's coming in transport, right? So maybe it's just it's. There are people that say that neural spikes are, I mean 20 Bell who did ICA was motivated by this idea of how can you. I think this is right. How can you adjust things to understand what the signals are? So you have the minimum number spikes so each spike is most informative. And that's what was the Genesis of the statistical technique known as ICA. Playing. Find something that matches the visual stimulus, right? Things to see. Sensory. Motor coordination so I want to hear what she has to say. So I just want to ask you to keep track of all the context and top down things that you think about your research going forward. Thanks.
