We have reinforcement learning problem here and now. First things you might think of doing is reward shaping, where the human is going to. We had hundreds of people interact with this sophies kitchen game and asked, you know whether or not this is something people can actually do. The people aren't very accurate at reward shaping and they anticipate what people with the agent might do and give rewards about things the agent never did and and such things. They're actually just saying that was right and that was wrong, and so we can think of this as policy shaping instead of reward shaping. If I take the number of times that I got a label saying that this was correct, an times 1 minus the the number of times that I was told that some other action. Policy and not for the agents policy I can use. So we used an Oracle to test these to test these parameters, and we compare it against some of the state of the art. This one parameter that we have so with critique interactions we have shown that reward shaping at least needs modification in order to in order to be effective. And maybe a better idea is to think of it as policy shaping, where instead of thinking of actually so we don't convert people's feedback to a number at all, we actually just think of it as advice on the policy. One is that we want to think about how we can quickly and efficiently get demonstrations from people, because we don't want to waste peoples time, they don't have a lot of time and the thing that we've been focused on lately is really asking what should we really be getting from these demonstrations, and so those are the two questions I want to answer today. Been thinking about our goal is to have robots that can function in new or changing environments by interacting with end users in order to learn what to do. So we did an experiment with 34 people, had them teach the robot a variety of different skills. And so in this sense, a good demonstration or the optimal model would capture as much as much variance as possible along the different dimensions of this of these multi very of these multivariate Gaussians. Can I do this, and if so I got to I get to extend my model significantly. Too big to do something new today or this week or this month as opposed to currently a lot of robots that have been successful in manufacturing have to be programmed once and deployed for really long time in order to be cost effective. So now we've talked about a little bit about how to efficiently get good inputs from people, but now I'm going to talk about what we should actually be getting from these demonstrations at all. So if a person is saying start like this, go here. The robot designers sitting in a lab. Is interactive machine learning, and so that's what I'm going to tell you about today. What we need to consider in addresses, the problem of how a robot can take this general problem of being able to build a policy or a model of a task in a given environment, which we can define really broadly, is just, you know. So the keyframe demo highlights salient parts of the skill, but the trajectory demo shows us the dynamics of the skills, so the keyframes you stop every time, so I know nothing about what velocity you want to be doing. Is that algorithms need to use the information that people are good at providing?