Hi, I'm really stuck with her and this is a joint work with Adam Smith. There are two conflicting goals. One is that you want to release sufficiently useful information, but at the same time you do not want to give two accurate information which will. One crucial thing to remember is it's a restriction on the algorithm, not on the data. And the second thing is this notion gives good guarantees even in the presence of arbitrary side information. On the space of outputs of the algorithm are closed. So there in the recent past there has been a lot of work on privacy and learning and it's just not possible to name all of them in this talk. I mentioned 2 results in the context of model selection. So, So what our contributions are. For new connections between stability and learning. More precisely, what you do is. We show that a stable non private model model selection algorithm implies a differentially private model selection algorithm and by stability we look at two notions of stability. What we show is that the last two estimator is stable in the sense. So what our results here is that. And other technical condition is that the non non zero and the smallest nonzero entry of Theta star. So in this talk, what we show is that we can get a sample complexity of sloppy, which by the way, is the optimal sample complexity for sparse linear regression while also and we show that there is a multiplicative dependence of log 1 by Delta on epsilon. So to talk about perturbation stability will define something called as a distance to instability framework. And we call this function to be castable if by K stable at upset D if by changing K entries in the data set D the output of the function does not change. At a data set, F is 2 log 1 by Delta on epsilon stable. Then the algorithm outputs FT exactly. So one way to fix it is will find it proxy for the distance to instability. With the following properties, first the proxy should lower bound the distance to instability. But your series of work can also be served in one day 2006, and I've shown that under the stochastic assumption and with the proper choice of Lambda. But we show is the consistency assumptions for loss over sufficient to guarantee the stability of the minimizer Theta had by stability I mean the support of this minimizer. Snippet by constructing a dual certificate for nearby instances of the data set, and we show that the support does not change. First worked for something or less restrictive strong convexity. So what it says is if I look at the support of Theta hat, let's call the gamma is the support and gamma complement is other coordinates then will look will test for the strong convexity of the least squared loss restricted to the support of Theta hat? We are not testing for all possible choices of the support and this allows us to bypass this NP hardness for testing for our IP address in general. And we'll add Laplace, one, webcal and noise and check if that is sufficiently large, if sufficiently large and I'll output the support of the minimizer otherwise allowed. Put about and I've already stated you the privacy guarantee and also the utility guarantees that if the hat is at least two, log on by Delta upon epsilon and then with high probability will output the minimizer support of the underlying parameter vector Theta star. Stable non private model selection algorithms imply private model selection algorithm and I give you a kind of a generic reduction. Then I told you about how to test for stability. So there are other techniques like least angle regression which are more iterative. And finally we want to analyze other classes of problems like low rank matrix approximation and something like sparse representation with many good feature sparse vectors, and we want to do these things with privacy and that's it. So the problem we want to solve this model selection, so I assume that you are given a discrete collection of probability distribution families M1M2 and blah blah and your goal is to select a model which best explains the data set or which best fits the data set. Is something called sparse linear regression so sparse linear regression? So the specific model selection problem is we want to recover the coordinates of Theta star or the support of Theta star which are nonzero. So what is this paper all about? It's about differentially private model selection will give generic techniques for doing model selection with privacy. But why is it a concern? So most model selection problems can be thought of as like on this optimization problems, so the other examples of convex optimization is mean median support vector machines. So if you think a standard output of a support vector machine, these are like the support vectors and support vectors.