Three of my postdocs, Rebecca Hutchinson, Dan Sheldon and Mark Rowley, are key contributors and graduate students. So the Earth's ecosystems are very complex and I think we can argue that we have not managed them particularly well, just as one data point, we the rate of species extinction worldwide is estimated to be between 10 and 100 times the background rate that would be expected based on estimates from the last, say, 10,000,000 years. A sense of what the state of the art is, and this is some work by Daniel Fink and colleagues at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, and they took a lot of bird watcher data from project eBird and fit basically bagged decision trees to it, with some additional tweaks on it, and they can produce a map of bird species distribution. So the optimization that we do need to be robust to our uncertainty in those models and the state of the system typically covers large spatial regions, and so the just the size of the state variable scales exponentially. So again, what the state of the art right now is is pretty much just the prioritization of sites for their conservation value. And setting aside all of the political and an institutional issues with getting multiple stakeholders to actually do this, there's a need for us to continually improve our models and update our policies so. So I think the another big challenge for us here is that for species that are in danger of extinction, for example, or new diseases that are starting to spread through agriculture, for example, we need to start acting immediately before we have a very good model of the dynamics, and so this is really in some fundamental sense, very hard machine reinforcement learning problem, except that we have it's at a much larger scale than amazed problem, and so I think we also need to take into account the fact that. And so I think we need to have our make our policies robust both to the known unknowns, the things we can put probability distributions on and also all of the unknown unknowns. Now I want to drill down on three areas where we've been doing work at Oregon State, and so the first one is going to be about species distribution modeling. It reflects everything they saw to check another box that says this is all I saw and that gives us allows us to interpret everything else is negative training data with many constraints. And but of course, it's very messy data, like all citizen science data, we have some issues, one though that's maybe unique here is that when a bird watcher goes out, bird watching a bird might be present, but they might not notice it, right? And another severe problem is the problem of sampling bias. So let me talk a bit more about imperfect detection. But not been managing the Earth's ecosystems in a in a sustainable way, and I think maybe the number one reason is we really didn't think about it as a control problem or a management problem. And if we're going to control the system, we need to have a good model of how it works. So maybe the first cell site A was a 400 meters above sea level and the second column in this table is the true occupancy status, which is hidden from us, right? And then I made three visits, so I have a detection history 011. Things like this, and we're going to assume there's some function F. That takes X and Maps it to an occupancy probability. Oh so by and that's our species distribution model. The vertical axis is the predicted probability, and of course we see that we have a lot of scatter here because of the nonlinearities. So where the true occupancy is .6, the predicted occupancy is between, say, .1 and .95 so. It's parameterized as a weighted sum of regression trees, and it's fit by a functional gradient descent are are boosting. And of course, it's a flexible model, so we can tune the complexity of the model to match the complexity of the data and so it's no problem to throw in many covariates, although here we had exactly the same number of covariates. And So what happens is we kill the the scatter the vertical scatter because now we can handle the nonlinearities, of course. Here we have the folks that are passionate about probabilistic graphical models, and they have many advantages. On the other hand, we can move to the flexible nonparametric model space, which is what I think of as sort of the main contribution of machine learning is you know our neural networks are boosted trees are support vector machines and so on and we have very powerful ways now of adapting the complexity of the models to the complexity of the data. And at least for a boosted regression trees, they're very easy to use off the shelf because they you know they don't care about the as long as things are. So the dream is that we could somehow develop methodology of flexible nonparametric probabilistic models where we get the advantages of both of these lines of research. So unfortunately, I think computer science can help. The algorithms and systems that can contribute to the sustainable management of the Earth's ecosystems. So the first challenge is data acquisition. So there's a project that's been developed called Tamo that's led by Nick Vandergiessen at the Technical University in Delft and John Selker at Oregon State, and their goal is to 1st develop a complete state of the art meteorological station for cost of less than 200 euros. Which they can do with a lot of modern sensing technology and then deploy 20,000 of these stations across Africa and transform it from being the least sense to the most sensed continent. We need some redundancy and we and we need to be. The second problem that I want to raise the problem of data interpretation so very often and more and more these days are raw data are signals, say images or acoustic signals, and so you can't. The third challenge is the problem of data integration. So I think the challenge for this community and it's it's also gets a lot of attention in the database community is how can we learn from this heterogeneous data without losing the fine grained high resolution when we have it and without losing. The simplest ones are essentially static models of the spatial distribution of a species. So migration and dispersal models in some sense, the dual. And you then want to model the trajectory and timing of the movement of the organisms. So the challenge is the big challenge here is that the variables of biological interests are all latent, so the distribution of the species isn't directly observed.