Then providing culturally relevant content and advertising. Some companies almost need to personalize their brands, so if you take, for example, Unilever and the Lux brands, the Lux sort of soap and washing in most countries, Lux is a pretty much everyday brand. Three different layers of of culture. So the building is the language, the food, the lots of ice cream here in Italy and sunglasses and watches. How cultures also vary based on their attitudes to three different things. Again, all this affecting the way people come to website. And whether you're alone or part of a bigger environment. I think for efficiency in doing this is is integrating web content management in translation management and I know people are wondering about how. 90% of HP's customers buy based on content not on actually touching a product, and I think that's one of the kind of outcomes of the Internet really. And buying online more or certainly certainly looking for information before they start buying and then Additionally, most of their revenues the same company HP's revenues are done outside of their home market, so you can see the importance of the content and the language perspective there. So you can actually within a web content management system you can link it to translation management system so that you send off your content from the web content management system. So if you're running you understanding the two way conversations with customers through machine translation or whether it's crowdsourced, I know there are separate. So in summary, my three points where create content and reusable components that can be modified by Park country use Geo positioning to make content culturally relevant as well as all the local knowledge and integrate language technology into your web content management system. I found this really interesting because I think about five years ago this was quite different that now 42% of Internet users in the world are actually in Asia. And yet they're the biggest Internet users according to these stats. Also what's very interesting here is that although Asia has the highest usage, it's actually only at 21.5% penetration, so only 21.5% of people in China are using the end Internet. This is an article I found recently few weeks ago in BBC talking about how China's online retailers booming and how actually 10% of retail sales in China are now done online and what they were saying is the reason that people are doing that is partly because people are going out of the meeting out of the cities. How do you represent, or how does a company? How can you make sure that content on there is relevant to a specific culture and that's related to targeting and personalization as well as the local knowledge? And I'm going to have a couple of slides on each of these.