I'm with the University of Massachusetts in Amherst and this is a collaborative work between us and the University of Melbourne. Very large amount of English text. So what about space usage? And this is an actual example. The various end though the F there is observed fractions of the corpus that are actually going to be indexed as estimated from a chunk of Trek Clue Web B. File 2 is the subset of that that's that's repeated and file 3 is. As we increase the size of our collection, the number of things that we need to keep the number of hash values in our Bloom filter will increase. So hash based methods cannot be scalable. Where representing each word is a 32 bit integer. Instead of using hash values, we can use locations in the corpus to determine which ones are repeated and which ones are not. They can then be sorted into location order. File 2 now now can't use unique hash values. But on space usage, we see that displays one pass increases with with in a linear way with respect to the size of the corpus and the slope of the line is determined by N = 8. You can see the hash value of the hash based one. We couldn't increase the hash because we didn't have more memory to give it. We can see how long it took the amount of space it used and final index size. We can see that location based is more compact. We can also see that location based scales well even doubling the data. It's also worth worth noting that as N increases, the fraction of repeated text drops of increases, sorry. Which increases the size of air intakes. But let's look at the space complexity. The problem is the intermediate data size. Each each term, each each symbol in our corpus is going to be repeated in NN grams. It might be interesting to note that the time complexity doesn't change. We still sorting the same number of things. Taking N grams doesn't change the length of the collection, but as the data grows, we spend more and more time reading and writing. With any one pass algorithm, we have no way of telling whether an engram occurs once or more times at the first time we see it, so we can't easily discard it. So we introduce a hash based filter. During the first pass, we click at a fixed width hash value for each engram.