[0.0s - 29.0s]
So I present myself I'm Ahmed bin Lifton, PhD student at Montpellier, France. I'm working with horrible lesson and consisted of her present and this work was in collaboration with different. Each represent as well so our work isn't related. Data set. Accommodation for that are linking an intentional approach.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So we start by a general introduction of linked data. Then the context of our work, then our intentional approach to data set, recommendation some experiments, and finally we conclude.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
I start by this school post of the internally with linked data. When you have some of it, you can find other related data. So based on this motivation, an abundance of data has become available on the web, and as you can see from this little graph 2007, two, this huge graph for 2014 Ford linked to my data cloud.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So with this growth of the load, there is many challenges arise, so we can sit here. For example, the access possibility less than 50% of Percodan point where responsive that originality of the data such as multilingualism or especially the schema vocabulary intelligibility. Or there is more than 60% of datasets that are using their proprietary term. And in this work we are focusing in the link data linking challenges. So for here we we have for example the focus in the linking in the well node and trusted graph of linked data. So hence, in this work we're going to try to identify other candidate data set for the interlinking.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So here we have our lovely. That is it that are linked or not linked, that we want to find some data set to be linked with what we're going to do. We're going to search for this huge linked open data Cloud or the web of data. So the 1st way is to use as we said in the last slide, there will no graphs like such as DVD etc.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And what we propose here we're proposing to reduce this search space to use the other datasets. So for us, that recommendation is the task to computer rank score for each of set of target data sets with respect to the source one and the rank score here indicate the relatedness between the source and the target 1.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Our main motivation is dealing with the reference resolution, so datasets may contain different resources that refer to the same real world entity the same as link. So following the linked data, best practice this resources are generally represented by similar same types and answer our thesis is that data sets that share at least one pair of similar concepts are likely to contain at least one potential. Pair of instances to be linked and here we can use for example the same as link.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Here we have an example of this epitasis, so here our lovely city, monthly monthly is presented in three different datasets by different types, such as place, Location, City, Municipality, etc. And as we can observe here, there is some correspondence between this. There is some correspondence between these levels, so here for example, we have similarity between settlement and community. And down, etc. So we have to discover this kind of similarity in our work.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Here we have a global view of our workflow. We have three main steps. First the preprocessing step where we extract data set profiles. Then we have a filtering step where we extract a cluster of comparable datasets. And then we have the ranking step. We're going to see each one of those steps one by one in the next slides.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
We start by the preprocessing. Here we are extracting the profiles. So we have two kinds of profiles. We have the label profile, which is a set of schema concepts level corresponding to a data set and we have a document profile which is the concatenation of this label and its description. So for example, here is a town in the label profile. We can find the label town and in the document profile we can find its description. And for sure, the combination of this and the other profiles.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Then we have the next step is that I set the filtering. So as we said in slides ago that we need a similarity measure that can detect similarity between, for example, settlement and commune. This kind of similar. So here we are opting for the ontology matching used similarity. This is the word net based similarity like polymer lens. And there is another similarity measure that prove very performance in our experiments. It's the human similarity which which combines semantic distance in Word net with frequency of occurrence and Co. Occurrence of terms in large external corpus. Here are in their case it's corpus collaborate from the web.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Now after fixing our similarity measure, we need to extract our cluster of come parable datasets. We note here that we are not doing clustering the cluster term, it's just the set of data sets that are similar with the similarity measure. So that's it's two data sets are compatible if there exists two level in their profile that are similar with user similarity measure. So here we have a similarity higher than a given threshold. And here, as you can see, even in this step we are reducing the search space. So all the target assets are only will be only here in this cluster in the cluster of comparable datasets. And now we need ranking functions that will rank datasets in this cluster and will be the next.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Zip. So our ranking step here. First we form a corpus based on the document profiles. Then we build a vector space model by indexing or those documents in the corpus we compute the well known FDF. Similar cosine similarity between this document. And the this similarity is our ranking function that rank each targeted asset in the cluster. With respect to the source one we have here an additional information to give a mapping between labels that we produce and there is mapping is. And this method is particularly useful input in the linking step. So here we go to the experiments.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Our steps, so in the experiments only 90 data sets were responsive. The document profile were accepted from the well known. Lol Sorry the measures. We used the depth 4G API 2013 and for this model it's available. Have an available API in the Internet and for the evaluation data we are using the current topology of the link. It open data cloud extracted using that. I hope to avoid. Tool this evaluation data we made available on this link.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
As a metric we used, we are evaluating our method with no recall precision, precision at level K, and mean average precision. So we run our recommender system for each data set as in the evaluation data we. Consider that each data set in the evolution data is not linked and we can't recommend here. Some datasets and we evaluated with this metrics.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
With this method, so we found that. We remain the 100% of record in this evaluation data in the following three threshold of the flow of those methods. So for example, here between 0 and 0.9 or polymer we have this interval. We have 100% recall in the evaluation data.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And now we are going to see the performance of our method in terms of mean average precision, overall source data, set of evaluation data. So we have here the similarity measure embassy. Which reach 53% of mean average precision. In the threshold of Zero 7, and as we said in the last slide, we have. Between zero and Zero 7, all of this enter value. Have 100% of recall. So here the best configuration for this measure is. 074 the threshold. 0.7.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And now we have a table that computes the mean average average precision at level K using the three different similarity measures. And as we can observe here, we have the more stability using the embassy measure with 0.73 short. So in the next slides we consider that the user measure is the embassy with this configuration.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Here, uh. In the best of our knowledge, there is no baselines for this kind of works. So we created two baselines. The first one. It's based on the ideas and content similarity, but there is no cluster of compatible data sets. And the second one there is no TF IDF cosine similarity, but is using a ranking function over this cluster of comparable datasets.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Here we compare our method to those two baselines. We have our method in green, Alberta. Baselines are in blue and red. So here, as we can see, the baseline to produce better results for a limited number of datasets, especially those that are sharing high. A higher number of identical levels, so special that sets that are coming from the same province. As we can observe as well, more stability for the green here for our proposed approach. The efficiency of the mean average precision is up to 53% while the other to the other baselines. Are less than 50%. And our precision is up to 100% for some data set, specially for geographic and government domain an this is explained by their high level of schema.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Here we have general analyzes of these results, so we show a high performance of our methods. We show that our method is independent of the data set size, or the schema cardinality. And in our experiment we faced another problem. So we think more fair evaluation can be given if better evaluation data were used, because when we used the current topology of the linked open data cloud. It's true, but it's far from being complete to be considered as a ground truth. And here we deal with the false positive. Issues the false positive problem and we tried to run. Select the interlinking tool over this false positive recommendation that are considered as false by the valuation data, but we don't know where they are false or not. The the manual performance of Silk was very exhaustive. So we just do it in some recommended datasets and here as you can see, for example this kind of link is not declared in the current topology of the load. But we found that there is a link between those assets are source data sets and target data sets that considered as false positive in the evaluation data. Of the few links that we discovered that we make it available in this link, you can find it in the paper as well. As.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Conclusion I was very fast. No, it's OK. So. Here we show our data set recommendation approach. It's an additional based profile. We show that we reach mean average precision or around 53%. We think that precision can be improved. Our work is very flexible to work with. Any kind of similarity measures. And for sure, we have a better performance with data sets having high quality schema description. And. As a post processing step, this is an additional contribution is the. Is the producing of different levels from different datasets that can be used in the interlinking tool to find the connected instances? The rank that we produce is available on this link. And as a future work, and we think that we need. Really ground truth in this kind of approach? Maybe benchmark data we're going to work on this kind of feature work. We think that we can improve the profiles by considering the population. Of the schema element. And maybe we can investigate as well the effectiveness of machine learning techniques such as clustering, classification, etc.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Thank you. Questions.
