What I really want to talk about here is the issue of performance and Python. So there's going to be a mini performance session inside this session that won't use any of the tools that you will use tomorrow, but there are specific profiling tools for Python to find out where your bottlenecks are now. 'cause this does not look promising for Python for HPC. You can write very clear, concise code. It's very flexible as a lot of packages, and it's easy to use, so your development time goes down and the performance hit is about as bad as it can get when you do it for diffusion equation and the diffusion equation every way the Python doesn't natively, every pixel is its own object, knows what type is this? Now, if you're using Python for post processing, and most of what you're doing is fall out, then the comparison is much less bad because FiOS typically limited by how fast your disks are. There's ways to improve things with dedicated packages, which is exactly what will do. So everybody you should see profile but you have to say that it is the profile exists as well and you still as with anything that is a test, you were typically just on a smaller representative case, but so we're going to look at what happens when we run our code through this profiler. This for the MX4 and then I'd like the results to be sorted by cumulative time so the largest time is on top. I guess now you think that's great. I'll look at those lines. Here's another tool that can, it's called line profiler. Hey, that makes sense, line by line and so again, do this on a representative case and they can tell you line by line where things are. Now you don't have to have your your code in a function, because as it turns out, you need to instrument anything you want to measure the times of with a little thing ylitalo header, it's X profile will see it in a second, but that's all you have to add, but you have to add it to a function and that function can be one big monolithic code. And so you're you should worry about memory even. Even if you're not hitting it anywhere, because as soon as you run out of memory on any modern machine, a couple of things could happen. But it's very slow, and you probably have experienced this sometimes, and that's the good case in the bad case. Some objects you don't quite sure how much memory day takes. I know what I'm at. You need a memory profiler. It's very good for caching memory leaks as well. An unexpected large memory usage especially. Looks nice, but it needs the same instrumentation as the as a line profiler so that saying. So if you're following along on your laptop, this is totally possible, but you might not get all of the speedups that we are seeing. They come with a package manager and you can say I want these packages and it starts downloading and installing them, so it shouldn't be hard, but. Necessary packages at if you working on your own laptop and you just want to code, you can get them from from sign. I'll fix the Rep when you guys instrument this code with an ad profile and run it through the profilers you guys try that and then you can tell me afterwards which line had the most memory usage increase and which line had the most CPU or time usage ready. Similarly, if I add a plus B, you add a list to a list, you get a larger list. But when we're doing numerical work, we probably do want the elements so so they're not the ideal data type because their lists they're not a race, so we. With the following, so you'll have to log into bridges. So we're going to ask for an interactive job with interact Dash N 28 and then for good measure you're going to source set up again. Run that script. There's a few comparisons with compiled code and so. The array elements are accessed like like in C or C++. So the first index is zero and starts at 0 and the First Nations role in a second is the is the column. You can do B * C or C was a scalar and you get what you expect too. So there is a compiler for Python called Cython that will take your Python code typically in module form. It should get in again again in Python. Comparable speed between the two. Excellent, OK, so that was my assumption that most of you would be, so that's good at Python is a high level interpreted languages. It means that it is often at odds with high performance. It's a just in time compiler for for NUM py expressions. It will break things up in threads and then calculating parallel. But I want you to show up, but when I wanted to show you this anyway, it takes input as a string. I forgot my owner and Ione time module there so anytime is is the same thing As for the as I just said for the bash it just computes elapsed time but it too needs this thing in the string. Correct? One of the reasons I'm doing this session is I'm impatient man. We want to do this same thing as this one. And we can we have to kind of fake it, so there's there's tricks and I'll just tell you there's tricks that do the same thing. It's a dynamic language, part of the structure of data types such that they carry basically their data type with them, which means every time you use a data type, it's checking using a datum. Its data type is checked. I'm going to simulate the diffusion equation, which is kind of a time dependent version of the Laplace equation we saw earlier in the challenge with Python. This is the equation for those of you that like equations like Me 2 dimensional will put it on a square domain, so the X Files Go for an X1 to X2 and Y values from the same and will set the.