[0.0s - 29.0s]
I would like to introduce you to Helen she, she banker. She's a researcher at the Johanneum Research Policy Center for Economic and Innovation Research in Vienna. Her main research areas are women in technology, gender, mainstreaming labor, marketing qualification. She will share the presentation with their Florian Helsingor, who is has studied political science, philosophy and history at University of Vienna and his research focuses on the influence of gender and innovation. Systems and governance is used on science, technology and innovation. We will open the session on innovative best practices with more general reflections. On good practices which are based on our experience in gendarran, before we then later in the session come to the presentation of specific good practices. Yeah, we share this presentation because we also share the workload in work package tool and the responsibility for this work package dispose of us left for apparently during the project. So. Trying to get set up. So. OK.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Yeah, I will start with a more descriptive part. Lighting out again the intentions that we had by collecting good practices in the context of gendera and then showing also how the partners used the database and the good practice examples. For the second part of the presentation, we also need to address a bid on a methodological aspects to understand the challenges that we had when constructing the database. Florence pattern will be more analytical. He looks more into the content of the database and tries to identify the factors of success and the lessons learned when analyzing the content. So based on this we tried to. Find policy implications asking what is needed to make the implementation of good practices more successful.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So once you have heard it a few times already, but important part of June Darabos to identify, to collect and then to analyze could practices in the different 9 partner countries in four sectors. Dora yesterday already gave us an insight into the questionnaire and what you can look for in the database. The intention was to get an overview of what is already implemented successfully in these countries. And yeah, what are practices and policies that try to promote gender equality in research organizations? So the the good practice database was designed as an instrument. Of which enabled us within the group to share experiences and to start across a process of knowledge exchange and of motor learning. It was an exchange within the group, but also an exchange with people outside the generic group. People that were in our where an are interested in implementing and designing gender interventions. This exchange of experience in this learning was based on two products, mainly that we already mentioned too. Of one is the synthesis report that compiles all the results from the national contexts and compares and analyzes different dimensions. And one is the online database that can be found on the training error. Website is already mentioned. Yeah, Intel.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Actions are the one side and the practice. Their realization is the other side. So when we looked for the use of the database, we could see three main areas without database was used in in this project. Um? One bus, the National Task Force meetings in in the different countries, the Task Force invited people from other good practices to exchange knowledge. So it was a knowledge transfer their heads. End the database content was also brought in the data in the task forces and was presented to different task Force members. There was also distribution to a bigger audience by by mailing lists, for example newsletters and and so on. But the other big area of use was have been the action plans that we already have mentioned today. Every task force developed recommendations in the national context and the other database was very helpful to argue their recommended actions in an international perspective. And also to identify gaps and to bring experiences from other good practices in to improve existing policies. But the database also was important outlet outside the gendera context. We made the experience that it was very useful to have a product like this one to show to show to people that are not changed over yet, especially when we are working in different groups in different projects. With that do not have agenda focus, it was very useful to have this database to show to people and show and like function like an eye opener to show what is possible, what is done already, how is it done? And for which target group? Which which measures is for which target proper examples? Yeah, and we see him concerning the use of the good practices. We could also see limitations in the way that we do not really know. How much it is used, by whom it is used, and which impact it has in fact to change and how much they could practice is really contributing to bring change and to develop measures for change.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Here this brings me to the benefits that the partners reported from using the database and the good practices. Um? I've already mentioned that it was very helpful to compare the. Policy landscape on the national level. Spider International perspective, at least in these nine countries and by by this being able to identify what is not so well developed international context yet, so we are relaxed to for further policy design. For stakeholders who are working in the task forces. It was easy to get an overview what is done elsewhere, especially people who maybe are not sochenda of Aaron who are in decision making positions. They could easily learn and get inspired. By what they found in that in the database. We also notice that specific. Uh, good practices were used as a starting point for national discussions. For example, there was a specific measure that was brought up and then people came together. Different stakeholders related this good practice to the national context and discussed how in this field or for this target group for this activity, the policy. Design could be improved and how the existing measures, for example, are developed further or how new measures are signed. Getting the input from from a good practice example. And another edit value of us as seen by the fact that in the database they could practices had to be described very systematically so we could notice that. In general, we need more research on. The good practice is we need to know more about their impacts on change on The Voice, the work they do not. So the simulation of research also has the benefit that came out of this systematic presentation. OK. After this description, more analysis. Yeah, thank you very much Alina. I would like to continue and show you some more analytical results from the good practice research, so I would like to take come to the slide.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Um? To talk about obstacles to implementation and to about what makes these good practices successful. Ready mentioned and the results are based on the collected practices and therefore I would just like to take it briefly. Look at how we collected a good practices and how we identified.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
You heard already yesterday alot about it so I will really make a brief echo through briefly so good practices at those practices that accomplish their objectives. So we searched for a lot of different practices so it was not. We were not able to find define one indicator which measured success, but and now come to the criterias. It was important for all these. Good practices that they were able to demonstrate that they were successful, so that's what that was. The first criteria. The second was sustainability. The third systematic approach we had yesterday. It should be integrated into wider strategies of HHR, or diversity, and so on. 5th and 4th, the 4th and 5th, where innovation and transferability item. I don't want to mention too much about it, and it was a four or five decision, so it meant for criteria had to be assessed. Positively, whereas the demonstrable success was of course an obligatory criterion. The search for good practices was expert base, which meant all national experts. Pre selected promising initiatives on their experience and expertise and then we send a questionnaire to these initiatives and collected information which on this basis we assess them as good practices. And then we put them into the database so that.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
The mythology. What kind of good practices did we identify? We found All in all 64 good practices in the air in the line countries. They contain. A wide mix of different policies and instruments from action plans to trainings, from coaching to networking, from child care to career support. They address different target groups and different barriers. To a successful career science career and also they are implemented in different R&D organization different different it in regarding to the size of the organization but also in regard to the R&D sector where they are active. The distribution and think. Maria already said it. I have shown some slides on it and the distribution of the good practices in the database between the nine countries is very uneven. Just to give you an impression. We have three good practices from Slovakia, and we have 16 and under database from Germany. So these differences I think we have related to them to these differences. Yesterday there they are reflecting also the cultural differences. The differences regarding to the innovation systems regarding to the development of gender equality in the whole society in this country. But what are the results?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
They are not innovative from you. But um. Look closer on at the good practices we were we were able to identify certain obstacles. And taking a closer look, it became obvious, of course, and this is quite obvious that the obstacles are very much related to the factors of success. That factors of success are more or less answers to encountered obstacles, meaning that they are all ways to overcome these obstacles and barriers. So I want to start with the obstacles and then come to the factors of success. What are the obstacles they are? The so called a lack OPS. It's a. Like a funding, lack of awareness, lack of commitment, like a gender expertise, and often the lack of evaluation and monitoring. And there's one too much and it's bureaucracy and I yeah. Let's go to the first obstacle, it's it's funding. It's a very prominent. It's very often mentioned in the in the good practices, but it's it's not always about financial resources, about availability, availability of financial resources. It's also about financial insecurities, meaning that it's not possible for these good practices often too. Plan on a long term basis. There are budgetary issues, so how they tried to overcome these obstacles is basically about external funding. They tried to get external funding through corporations with. Um? Companies or funding agencies? That's that's one practical way to overcome it. The second obstacle is awareness. Lack of awareness of gender qualities in R&D and in the whole meaning a lack of awareness in in. In of China, inequality in R&D and in the whole SoC are in this often perceived as, and we heard that yesterday as a meritocratic system where only excellent excellence and equality and originality assess because yesterday turned it matter. A lower status results from a lower performance. That's the myth of science. Raising awareness for inequality's and discrimination is therefore often the first barrier on these initiatives have to overcome. What are the factors of success or what was mentioned as a factor of success by the good practice initiatives is at first a general positive climate. On a social and political level towards gender equality and that fighting overcoming this inequality's and discriminations is on the top of the political changes. So that's the first factor of success is second second factor of success was often mentioned. It's. That initiatives have to be promoted within the organization so it is clear what are the objectives were the target groups and that these are initiatives are visible to all employees and to all departments of the organization. A second or third is networking within the organization to involve as many departments as possible to integrate them into discussions and to raise awareness for this topic through networking. A third obstacle and that was mentioned yesterday several times, is a commitment. A lack of commitment, especially from the management level, but also from from coworkers and other employees. The support for all from all management level needs to be secured. That's the main message from the good practices. It's not only important to involve the top management, but also to buy in the middle management. Buy in can be achieved through enhancing the inclusiveness of. Good practices and initiatives. Which means to include all or as many employees as possible, regardless of sex, age, or ethnicity. Sorry, Ricky. Inclusiveness also helps to reduce resistances. On the one hand, but also avoids problems of stigmatization's and stereotyping of target groups. The 4th and only briefly mentioned. Obstacle is gender expertise, especially in those organizations which are just beginning to establish gender equality initiatives. They're facing the challenge that they are lacking specific knowledge on gender issues and how to implement such initiatives. It's therefore necessary to acquire this knowledge and also again the relying on external knowledge and knowledge of consultants, especially the problem here was often mentioned. It's hard to transfer this knowledge acquired through external expertise into the organization sustainably. The last arm point is evaluation monitoring, which was not mentioned as an obstacle, but most of the good practices, but it was mentioned as a factor of success, but those initiatives which have applied evaluations and I will come to that. Later, the findings of of of the chin Derek would practice research are not new. They are confirmed by manifolds of other available literature on this topic. And so I come to Michael.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Asians? One simple, but I think important conclusion. We think an important conclusion can be drawn from the analyzers of the Trendera database, and that is. That is good practices. They are not characterized by ideal conditions or circumstances for implementations, but rather they have to deal with several obstacles and barriers, and they are more or less becoming good practices by overcoming these barriers and obstacles, finding solutions for. These obstacles, so in this sense. The process of implementation of four of gender equality measures has to move. Into the focus of our attention. Um, good results. Like from the good practices in the database. Follow on one side from good policies, but also on the other side from good practice and I want to. Explain this differentiation a bit more detailed. So what have we labeled so far is good practices has at least 2 dimensions dimension one or refers to the design and the content of initiatives. So what are the right tools and instruments to accomplish certain or specific objectives and to achieve change so the first dimension is about good policies. The second dimension means practice and process and focuses on the process of. Implementation what are the prerequisites of successful implementation? How to overcome obstacles and barriers so this? Second dimension is about good practice. What the database has so far shown. Is that a variety of policies promoting gender equality, at least on a European level already exists? So what I would like to argue here or we would like to argue here is that innovation and progress should not be sought only in dimension 1, meaning to design yet another sophisticated policy or initiative. But we should take issues of implementation more seriously and look closer at the obstacles and the organizational practices that inhibit successful and sustainable in implementation. We think, and maybe this is our specific point of view as we are coming from Austria. The turning good policies into could practices may contribute more to the development of gender equality in R&D than adding a more new elements to an already complex picture. My last slide. Is therefore on.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Odyssey recommendations. What can we do to to foster better implementation or to enhance implementation of channel quality initiatives in R&D organizations? The 1st. I think we have mentioned it several times and I'm very glad. Um, that my Co speakers. Mentioned it is just make public funding for research organization available available to implement equality initiatives, especially from the Austrian point of view. Again for the business enterprise sector, this is important. A second conclusion or recommendation would be to establish resource centers. They they can raise awareness. They can transfer knowledge, they can help. Aren't the organizations to analyze inequality practices and organizational barriers, and they can consult them during implementation. Process is but and this is this is an experience from the Austrian context as well. Is that we need to address these R&D organizations actively. They're not coming to the resource centers, but we have to. Addressed them actively. Thank you for informing us. Carter she's very experienced in these things, yeah, profound evaluations and monitoring. We need to get. Obligatory evaluations and monitoring process is in place. We need to know more about how do the initiatives work so evaluation is not only about the impact. How come in the effectiveness or efficiency of initiatives but on the process of evaluation is it's on the process of implementation itself? So what are the resistances and obstacles? How did we overcome them and how can we achieve, change or initiate change? 4th conclusion, our recommendation would be to establish and develop standards for good practices. As far as my knowledge is concerned, or our knowledge is concerned. Um? We don't know. We had. We didn't came up with any standards for good practices in our during the project time and the last would be to create the responsive associated climate. For promotion of gender equality not only in R&D, but in the wider associated context to keep this topic constantly on on the top of the associated and political agenda. So thank you very much.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
You mentioned the innovation wise process. Related to. Two good practices. So can you give us an example of such a practice coming from from Austria? And may be included in the Gendera database as well. Yeah, innovation is complex criterion and we try to. Measure innovation related to the to each national context. So innovation didn't mean that. That has to be new and European or worldwide context, but it has to be new within. Front in the context of the country it was taken from. If you ask me about one innovative example from Austria, I would certainly choose the one on equal Pay initiative becausw. I think there are three aspects of innovation to this. To this good practice, the first is equal pay is a new objective in Austrian SoC. We're discussing this quite a lot for a long time. With ups and downs, and but we didn't get too too too concrete solutions and these aren't the organization implemented and equal pay scheme quite early. The second would say why it's innovative is it's the process of implementation. It combines top down and bottom up elements, so it involves the management and it involves also the employees. And the third. Aspect. Um? Would be it's related to the size of the organization. It's a very small R&D company in Austria. Normally equality measures are. Implemented by larger companies or our institutions from the higher education sector. So that's three aspects and what? What did they do they? They did a survey or they they realize that there are gender, gender get picap within within these institutions. So they started the process about. How how did this inequality's occur? How can we overcome this inequality by starting from the gender pay? Inequality's they came to. To talk to talk about other barriers which inhibit successful careers for women in this company. And and it was basically more or less a starting point for a wider discussion. Yeah, I think I can can go on if you want, but I think that the main.
