I'm from University of not not is in France. Robots, web services, images etc. I can, you know I can buy cheaper or I can sell more expensive so I have to somehow analyze the actions of the other age. So let's suppose for a very simple case that the agent is described by a finite state machine just like this one. I can pass equations or I can pass pictures. Who knows the prisoners dilemma. OK, if it's another way around, if you decided to remain silent, which he admits, then you're going to get five years prison and he's going to be able to get out for free. So the outline of the talk is what is learning automata about. I'm going to be giving is algorithms studying the algorithms, seeing what are the reasons for which these algorithms are working. He's only receiving positive input, is only receiving strings that are arriving, or sentences, and from these sentences he has to somehow build a grammar. What we're interested in is an iterated version, so an iterated version is. So what does under very long run mean what it means? This is, I know the strategy. Perhaps I can play a game against this opponent and from the game I'm playing against this opponent I can reach an idea of what the strategy is. It means that in every game I'm going to play, his first move is always going to be to admit, but also in any game I play. If I start by playing ASA, then his move is going to be a. OK, there's a first state, and this first state is labeled with an A. We're left with is we're going to have to deal with this dangling edge here or this dangling transition. And deal with this a so. OK, so definition of grammatical inference. It's about learning a grammar given information about language. So now what I have to do when I could pass all this so I can pass a S with the A that is here I cannot pass, meaning I can't run it through my automaton. Learning how these objects are, the ones we're going to be interested in with extensions extensions which may be putting probabilities on these objects, leading to things like hidden Markov models or probabilistic finite state automata, context free grammars with probabilities. OK, this is tit for tat which is just. So first question is, why bother? And so then, why should we do something whenever researchers and machine learning or not? Learning automata, but algorithms for generating random numbers so you know you've come out with a random number generator, and this random jumman random number generator generates 17. Here is a random sequence. We also know that an algorithm that achieves some MDL result, MDL is minimum description length, so that is also theories that helps us to understand the learning that learning has been achieved. Well, we'd like to be able to say that I've I've learned and thanks to this learning issue, I will be able to predict so I can predict, for example, the next string somebody gives me. Now that's nice if I said if I had a distribution of probability, is there some material, some probabilistic world I'd be able to say? OK, some examples of strings just very quickly. I mean, the first thing you'll probably get in the second you if you compute, you get it right. So in the 60s and 70s he came out with these ideas. One item of data at the time, and after each item of data we have as a learner to produce a hypothesis. So I would say that I identify in the limit when there is a limit point. Example, so this is just with numbers and not with grammars and automata. The first I item of data arrives is number 2. So typically one is the text presentation, protects presentation of the language, is just a function of fine like the one we had two seconds ago, such that at the end of the day and then of today means in an infinite number of steps. While we have seen all the strings of the language, if you want to be able to learn a language, you're going to have to suppose that all the strings will eventually appear. So, well, you could have a legal presentation from text which would correspond well, all to all the pairs A2B2A7B7A4B four. Legal presentation from an informant. Well, it's pairs like this. Work nicely, which means that the learned grammar at some point or another has to be the grammar corresponding to a language, which is the one corresponding to the presentation. So this is what identification in the limit is about is just about saying that there is a step N at which all was for which my nice little triangle closes down neatly, and whatever I was supposed to learn, I have learned so when a class of grammars are a class of languages is identifiable. We're going to have a maximal size over the number of states of the machines were trying to learn, or the number of rules in the grammar. Then we do have algorithms that can learn with probability one finite state automata.