And work in collaboration with. To count the number of. Something like a transitivity in some sense, and this example is very simple. Acquire stronger semantic context when they call courage harder. You can go outside. Again, as I said, to tax Coke, or if they are present in the same post, but we can say more and so we can get giveaways to important through this coherence to tags, TNT, prime code, core with weight W if they are simultaneously press present in the W posts. Act essentially, I will shuffle only in the tag column. Letting everything unaltered. If this two curve, as you can see. This is a scatter plot in the sense that for each node. For each note you calculate, it's a. SNN. Are there some cliques and you know from graph theory? Going to the clustering and community detection. For resources. You can perform this on a different classes over of nodes instead, so you can try to do find clustering. So the problem is how to choose weights. Kiss you horrible results. In that sense, very, very rare tags. We cannot test on the whole entire network because it's huge, so we took only 400 resources. 200 of them target with design and 200 target with politics. Small numbers you should take the logarithm of this, but actually we use this small power. What you do what you have to do is to trying to find the column and row permutation in order to uncover blocks block structure. This kind of Laplacian matrix of the graph of the matrix in this case. Just take for instance the 1st three non trivial eigenvalues and and their corresponding young investors. This came up with Visual Design News in politics, web design and then the 5th and the 6th. In Folksonomies are the way people is building the information and communication system, so our future. Folksonomies our laboratory to study human, social and symbiotic dynamics of course. Folksonomies a growing super tight network whose notes are users, resources, and metal beta. While hyperlinks are annotation events so those. So Folksonomies statistical structure reveals many complex features typical over interacting humans, projections or folksonomy on different spaces can be useful to study spam, infection, semantic of tax, and emerging resource classification. Analysis I shall use also two particular artificial networks I need in order to make comparison. I'll take the original folksonomy and shuffle all nodes in the same class. Inside each class of course, don't use. And at the end, of course we end. Has disconnected nodes, so strictly speaking actually the the average path length should be infinite. Their cardinality of the set T who are. In some sense, as it's written above, I resource cliquishness indicates that many users uses similar tags to tag resources.