[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, it's quite an ambitious title. Not actually I will present some aspects that we started inside our tagara project. I'm not the only author of this this work. Actually, the there's been.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And work in collaboration with. The Castle group. Was Leader is a guest 2 male sitting here. And all the all my colleagues at disappearance our University. I wish to point your attention to the link the URL. Project you will find. On the on the top of the slide becausw you can see how. We managed to interface with sanami with the with the web page and we don't have a plug in working for that. It was quite hard to make this. Working and thank to cheer Okaton 100 but the salary we may be managed but we are looking forward to provide the plug in to do that in order to interface WordPress and lips on.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So I'm going to. To continue in some sense, the talk of cheero. What was given today in the morning? He was focusing mainly on the stream point of view of the folksonomy in the sense that you have. You can track over the time, the evolution of the folksonomy and you can. You can try to understand how these streams of tags of users or whatever you like evolving time. Another point of view is of course the one of network. This network is a nice one in the sense that is quite different from usual networks. You find around them.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Moment. This is, I think, that the last time you you will see this screenshot again user. In order to. To upload that you are all over resource in Delicious uses some tags. Who are some free labels in order to be able to recover these resources in a later time.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So the main data structure is this post post is. It's also a time level attached on it. Fortunately available on delicious. And it's done in a very simple way, and that's that you find here you find an example. Example is user Andrea B with tagging the Resource Delicious itself with four tags. This post is being split in. In the fourth TS, so tag assignments. And of course, all four tag assignments have the same timestamp attached, and in some sense bookmarking the first tag. We assume it is temporally temporally precedes the other ones, of course.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So as I try to to say this network is can be seen as a hyper network with hyperlinks. In particular, you see this red. Hyperline connecting three nodes. In some sense, hyperlinks always connect three nodes of different classes, users, resources and tag. You can also see. You can also consider the network has three modes, network of course, and the hyperlinks becomes a tree. A click of three order 3.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Well, in our project it's already one year it it's going on and we managed to collect some data. Actually in the first year it was our main our main goal. Now we're going to work on that. And it was. It's a consortium of five different institutions. As you can read. And what I'll present now today is some. Analysis about delicious. The delicious system you already saw this numbers about. About the business of this network.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So in the following. Analysis I shall use also two particular artificial networks I need in order to make comparison. On the semantic level. The permitted network I will use. An older pictures all curves about permitted network will be in red. That's why it's read the name. I'll take the original folksonomy and shuffle all nodes in the same class. Example from. The original TS in on the on the left you would get something like that, so you are shuffling. Inside each class of course, don't use. You must not mix objects on different classes. And at the end, of course we end. We have another hyper graph that has the same degree sequence of the original 1. In that way you are, of course destroying correlations among things you can never look on. What happens if semantic? I mean is important or not? And the binomial binomial graph is pretty similar to there. This rainy. In this case you don't extract links with two hands. We do ants, but you have hyperlinks and you have to extract 3 nodes at random. But of course you have to follow the prescription that each hyperlinks has to have. One tag, 1 user and virus source.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So the 1st. Analysis We can do, and actually this was done by Christoph Schmidt Schmidt at the Castle is to have a look on the average path length. I say estimated. I wrote a in the title because actually the network is huge. So what we calculated what we measure this sampled. Samples, but linked in the sense. And I answer the question posed yesterday, Tochiro in the sense that 200 nodes were extracted randomly, and for those 200 nodes. BFS were was calculated, and then the average path length was at the end, measured in this process, repeated 20 times. And what we find is that if you consider the time evolving from from. The right from the left to the right of the picture you have. You can keep track of how the average path length is growing in time and what you find is that. They say the delicious. The average bottle. Anything delicious is lower than the binomial graph in some sense, confirming that humans are able to discover. The shortest shortest way to go from one thing to another. And yeah. You have always to keep in mind that moving on this graph means moving on hyper edges, so on the left side of the slide you can see for instance in the first step you cool the jump. To A tag from taxi 122 used by the same user to to tag December source. Or you can stay on 32 and change simultaneously uses users and resources and so on. But the three so course one of those three must be must remain constant in the process. Strictly speaking, be nomial there be normal graph. Has disconnected nodes, so strictly speaking actually the the average path length should be infinite. But OK, of course it was calculated in this method of the sample. You get some finite.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Results. Another another measure we can we can do. Pretty similar to the. And the clustering coefficient of regular network, say, is this cliquishness. Sorry for the name, I don't know coins is. Actually, the name itself says what it does, so it's a. It's a good name. I've drawn a picture as an example on the on the right. Our resources our stars say we are sitting on a resource. And I can, I can say how many hyperlinks are connected to this resource and this I indicate with. Their cardinality of the set T who are. And of course, in this example you see there are three. Three hyperlinks, then you can think how many possible hyperlinks could I have in this case, and the answer is that you should you might have. 3 * 2. Hyperlinks in total in the sense that if their source was the center of a click, then you would have. At TR tags connected each to ur users. So this. And then we can keep track on overtime. Also this quantity and what you see is that delicious is displays a higher cliquishness with respect to the artificial networks. In some sense, as it's written above, I resource cliquishness indicates that many users uses similar tags to tag resources.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Another way to have a look on something similar to clustering is. And two. To count the number of. I for links that end on on couple tags and users. That, in turn are belonging, so are connected by a neighbor. Links to another resource. Something like a transitivity in some sense, and this example is very simple. Again, 'cause the only couple of tags T1 and sorry gotta couple of nodes till one and one are connected to another resource which is. R2, then in this case you are till there is 1, the total tuor was three and the result is 1/3 and also in this case you see that delicious is displaying in higher connectedness with respect to. Today, other artificial networks. It means essentially. That semantics is doing something.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
This was a sale, first part of my talk. Of course, one can imagine other measures you one can do on hypergraphs and we are of course working to provide some new hints. What I wish to talk now is another point of view. That the.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
One of the Co occurrences. So. Attacks, as you can imagine, sorry. Acquire stronger semantic context when they call courage harder. What do I mean with an example you can. I can understand. OK, if you use aroma, which is the Tiger and considering most importantly for this example. You can have a Roma Holidays in Italy and of course Roma. It's the city. You can have Roma football. We warn or we lost the defense of what you are tagging that case Roma is of course a football team. You can have romelo vanguards the sense aroma is also a nice name for girl so. Then this sense. When I say semantic context. I mean, I mean, what is it this year or what you can you can do? Is A to look at the Co occurrences that tags have inside the post. And of course from the example you will connect those tags or labels who have more or less the same. Rite Aid near semantic near meaning. OK, but it's another. It's another point in sense. One tag can Co occur with others. Or a Roman football may occur also to other posts, so you have also to keep track of how many times. Your tax Coke or in the imposts. During the talk of Andrea, he said he claimed that Japan, Tokyo, the Japanese Tokyo combination, is more frequent than physics sex. I didn't check my time in. You can go outside. There's a signal check with Google how many hits you have so we can. We can do some experimental physics. And again, again, the nice thing we can do and keep in mind that is that if we shuffle things so we destroy correlations and then semantics, you can have a way to measure the importance of this semantic self.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So. Again, as I said, to tax Coke, or if they are present in the same post, but we can say more and so we can get giveaways to important through this coherence to tags, TNT, prime code, core with weight W if they are simultaneously press present in the W posts. So if I introduce the agency adjacency tensor in pretty similar to the adjacency matrix of graphs. And say that the tense of T within this is RUNT stand for resource, user, and tags. Time is 1. If Du an R appear in the same post and 0 otherwise, we can define simply this weight between tags T and T1 as the contraction of the tensor in flat space it's a flat space becausw. In front of the two tensors, that is 1. The identity I did not write the identity, of course. And it might be interesting to change actually the. The metric in the sense that I can introduce a metric depending on the time. Or the single posts, so to say to introduce some memory and memory effects and wait less. Those tags went in the system. At early times.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, let's have a look on the website and directing network that we find with this W. String over note strength or node is as usual. The sum of weights belonging to the same node. For this. Curve and the following slide. I will use another kind of shuffling inside them. Inside the folksonomy is I called this tag shuffle the example. Act essentially, I will shuffle only in the tag column. Letting everything unaltered. And what you can see is the strength distribution on the on the picture in which the red, the red curve is. The cumulative distribution of strength. As it is measured from raw data. And since I communitive distribution, those Kings correspond to bumps in the distribution itself and those bumps. So you see, the first one is around 2004 STR equals 2000. The other one is around 10,000. And actually it happens that those Kings. Are introduced because of a huge post in which we had 10,000 or 1000 tags. This is clearly spam because they are trying to float the. The system with the most popular words in order that for a search search will pick their page. OK, but this kind of spam has no life in the sense that we can find it easily. You see, even with this communitive distribution, we can filter it out. And you get the green curve that you almost don't see because it's covered by the blue cord, the blue, the blue one. Which is the field filtered and shuffled? If this two curve, as you can see. Coincide almost coincide, it means that cumulative distribution of strength is not a good indicator. To show off semantics is working inside the system, we have to think 2 at another with another man.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Sure. Then we came with this. Average neighbor strength, so use it. Use it on one one node. And you make the average. Off the strength of your neighbors, this is a weighted graph, so you neighbor must be clearly defined. Weighted graph all nodes are connected to each other, but of course there are zero weights and those zero weights are excluded. Of course from the count. Let's see what happens.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So this is a pretty nice picture actually, not only 'cause you can see spam very easily. As red spots on the on the picture. But you, you see also that when you're clean spot from the system, you get the green dots and this is these are dots. This is a scatter plot in the sense that for each node. For each note you calculate, it's a. SNN. And then plot and put it on the graph. So each point in the graph is exactly telling you the SNN of each node. Then you have a scatter plot. And what what you see is that the filter and the filter plus shuffled this time do not coincide. So this is a good way to understand if there is semantics playing then. And keep in mind that the green region that you see I was given also this one may use it. This green region that you have is more strength. Will be the one who cares more semantic. And in fact, if you think a little bit rare tags are those who are giving more meaning to things. Yeah. Engraved tags of course have a smaller strength because appear not often. So. Does the sports there actually? Are there some cliques and you know from graph theory? That the maximal average neighbor. Connectivity you get for a graph made of clicks that case the KNN is called in the graph is exactly proportional to key to K to the degree. In this case you see this. Those three spots are aligned. In fact I should calculate them. I should have calculated the slope of that, but I'm confident it is practically one.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And that's the story for for the network attack occurrence, pretty on time.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Going to the clustering and community detection. For resources. OK, why is it a clustering detection of relevance? Of course it can give you a lot of hints on how the network is structured and. You can. You can perform this on a different classes over of nodes instead, so you can try to do find clustering. A community of users. In the way that I'm going to show you now, or of course of tags. In that case, you are exploring the semantics, so the meaning of words or even of resources. What I'm doing now?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So the idea is that we have. Two resources that share in this case in the example R4 and R1, who shared the same taxi. And of course they may share more tags, so they are in the intersection. Of the the tag cloud could be huge or. Small. And you just forget about tags and users and try to construct in some way weighted network. That carries all informations. So the problem is how to choose weights. And. The naive thing is just you have one resource and its tags another source and it stacks and you just calculate the cardinality of the set intersection, divide over the cardinality of the Union and you get a number. But we tried that one and that one doesn't work. Kiss you horrible results. Because in some sense you have to take into account at frequency. As I said before, most rare tags are very important, so you should push up the importance of those ones. How can we do?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So this is a before telling Google the Magic is just an example of two resources are one or two in red you find the tags who are belonging to the interception so they are in common. Of course each tag for instance. For instance, OK. Is it OK? For instance, art that I see here. Appears with different. With a different frequency introduced into two different resources here, I remind you that the font size is proportional to the logarithm models with the frequency.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So and then we came, we came up with this formula, which actually is very simple. Because I'm still doing the cardinality of the interception, divided the cardinality of the Union, but taking into account also. Inverse of the global frequency of attack. In that sense, very, very rare tags. Those ones who appear only once, have a very low frequency. Very small frequency of the inverse or different for this lower frequency or the low frequencies are huge number. OK.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So. We have to test this. We cannot test on the whole entire network because it's huge, so we took only 400 resources. The most target one once but. With the. 200 of them target with design and 200 target with politics. The idea is. Can we manage in this way to see to these two different blocks? Two different communities. Of resources, or maybe we find also some finer structural subclasses. Let's see what.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Happens with our metrics. So initially if you calculate the. Then probability distribution of those weights as I defined before you find that they are spanning almost. It's a 8 order of magnitudes, yeah? From 10 to the minus 8 to one. Of course, on the main diagonal, so I mean, if you are. Say if you are calculating how similar is 1 resource to itself. Of course you should have one on the main diagonal UF. Of course all once as you see. And other issues, since you have really so great, so why so? Small numbers you should take the logarithm of this, but actually we use this small power. To avoid. Problems of the divergent of the logarithm. On zero, so this is as a as you get. Let me sort of shuffled in some sense randomly, this 400 resources. You have a matrix 400 * 400. What you do what you have to do is to trying to find the column and row permutation in order to uncover blocks block structure. OK to do this you can use any algorithm you like. The point is not the algorithm, of course.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Since. Since we published this paper this in 2005. And. And I have a program that does this with the eigenvectors and eigenvalues. I use this method that actually is pretty nice becausw. You will see immediately from the lowest eigenvalues of this constructed matrix. This kind of Laplacian matrix of the graph of the matrix in this case. You can see immediately that there are. There will be. 6. Communities so not only the two ones belong to politics and design, but might be some mixture. In which politics and design appear to an equal level. Another point, what can we? How can we extract this column and row permutations? Just take for instance the 1st three non trivial eigenvalues and and their corresponding young investors.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
This is a standard procedure in spectral with spectral analysis. I mean it's really simple to understand actually, so you have vectors, eigenvectors with. Their components, I chose three eigenvectors is as I said. And for each component one. 2. 3rd component you plot the point in the space and what you find is that clusters points belonging to the same class as a line into one particular direction. Then you use group lot or other feature to extract Susie. This whole. And you find out that of course we cheated a bit because we know already. Which one was politics and which one was designed so to see, suggest to see that actually you get a good classification that at what was surprisingly surprisingly, to us that actually you find also. More fine structure inside, so not only the politics and the design here, but something in between. We found six of them, but. You can have a feeling that number #5 and #6 contained not so many points and then disappear. Something somewhere in the middle.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
This is what we find. This was labeled with the strongest, strongest community. With politics, something belonging to you, more in politics. I mean, this is a fuzzy classification. You can use a anyone you like. This came up with Visual Design News in politics, web design and then the 5th and the 6th. Need need the yet to be classified if you like.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
OK, the conclusions. In Folksonomies are the way people is building the information and communication system, so our future. That's then it's important to study them under different point of views. Folksonomies our laboratory to study human, social and symbiotic dynamics of course. Folksonomies a growing super tight network whose notes are users, resources, and metal beta. While hyperlinks are annotation events so those. TIS and Please note that this structure is very similar to search queries. The sense when you're looking for something in Google you just user. And enter a search string and retrieval source. So conceptually is particularly on the same level. So Folksonomies statistical structure reveals many complex features typical over interacting humans, projections or folksonomy on different spaces can be useful to study spam, infection, semantic of tax, and emerging resource classification. Thank you very much.
