Three companies, including Viraj, which was a public company when I was starting my second company Semantic Web Company in 1999. Very early work done by several of my students and several postdocs and any other friends in the area of how do we bridge the semantic gap in the last few years, people have started talking a lot about semantic gap. And when we start looking at that. Something that I'm going to emphasize through this stock discussion is experiences are always associated with events we are going to say that we experience using the five sensors that we all have, and these sensors result in different kind of data. Multimedia is continuously increasing in all over in different forms in our life, and in fact that's very good. The similar kind of things was presented in VLDB 1991, where in the data model for winches system which was beginning of image databases. Sometimes is used to go and match with the models, but the role of description is very different than the role of models. It is models that can be used to build the semantic gap. The tools that started from semantic web community and they wanted to apply those to multimedia. Did calling LS com which stands for large scale concept ontology for multimedia. These are all very good steps very. Powerful, very successful, but the question that we have to ask ourselves is, are we really breathing the semantic gap or we have started refining our tools on? So what is happening is that we had this semantic gap and what we started doing was to start developing semantic web tools that we are very good to deal with objects and that's why we started developing tools based on description logic to represent relationships among different objects and on the other hand. On the other hand, when you look at machine learning, it is very successful and it's very powerful because it analyzes data and build models for interpreting it. They do not allow us to cross the gap for a very simple reason. Can we create a model for a dog that will help any algorithm to detect that? So let's revisit this problem of multimedia semantics once again. We need models that will allow us to capture the web of symbolic information, because this seemed symbolic information is going to help us represent context in many different forms. We need to represent the content or signal characteristics using all the standard feature based. Another signal characteristics and maintain those. Extend events are well off each other, like a statics and dynamics are. You can start doing some very interesting thing in addition to search and navigation you can start doing multimedia storytelling. Users don't like to talk about bits and bytes. So we started thinking that can we start organizing all this information based on events and we found a very easy way of doing this. Bring the real world events that take place. We start putting as many complex relationships as required for recognition of events so we don't only start at the symbolic level, but we go to all the media level and we start trying to capture those things. When you start looking at modern cameras, these cameras 10 years ago used to be photographie devices. Why is that? Your event is structure. Now that's where the semantic gap is. Atomic events can be entered in our what we call event based. But then there is a second phase which we call event grouping, linking and assimilation. If you make it available using your calendar to your social network again into this active data, it uses event Ontology personal annotations that you could be doing and it also goes to the next stage is starting to do photo stream segmentation and event detection from photos using all these things. You can start creating different kind of albums and you can start telling stories like what did I do in Karlsruhe where one of the things that I want to do is at the end of 2008. The first time it was defined was in this particular paper, and though it was defined in the context of visual data and it says that the semantic gap is the lack of coincidence between the information that one can extract from the visual data and the interpretation that the same data have for a user in a given situation. Other kind of experiential data, so we have started applying this. What we have done is we have implemented event models and complete event cycle. But what we really need are techniques that will bring modeling and description frameworks together. And what is very interesting is that our search engines do extremely little to breathe this gap when you start thinking about Semantic gap text engines, the search engines are nothing but glorified string matching devices. Hi, thanks for the inspiring talk. We are definitely doing lots of things towards bridging. Possibly we'll be talking about trillion triples, and that's going to help, but lot of things remains to be done.