[0.0s - 29.0s]
So at the beginning this was.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Posed by Richard an. The other. Person mark, right. I'm really bad with names so. He

[58.0s - 87.0s]
I am. So we start.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Focusing on the use cases of basically what are names important in in business, in, in, in? Related to technology an, we come up with three major areas of use cases. The first is recognition. So basically first you have named entity recognition. So given a piece of text, how do you recognize that a string within this text refers to a name, right? Clarification here we first focus during the discussions on personal names as opposed to names of other types of entities, such as organization, events or or other types. Then another important part for recognition is the machine translation. So do you know the two names or how can you automatically recognize the two names written in different languages are the same, which is really important in business intelligence. For example, when you're merging data sets that contains names of people that are in the same data set, then another important parties is search. So how do you search for name and identity resolution which is? Very related to named entity recognition in the sense that so maybe entity recognition is about recognizing that a piece of text is actually a name. But then you actually want to know to whom this name is referring to. So you need to actually recognize the name. And it's also very related to machine translation. Then there is the issue of segmentation. So given the text, what? How do you know that when a line ends and the name continues in the in the next line? It's part of the same name, let's say. So then another issue is regards to the display of the name. So how do you sort the name when you show it in a user interface? You sort by last name by first name or by other types of elements of the name. Write an. And then it came out the issue of the contextual display of the name. For example, when you are writing a letter for the acceptance of a conference paper, you want to use a short version of the name. So for example, dear Mr. Penny, your paper has been rejected, right? Or an informal usage how my mother calls me, or how my brother calls me in the web, or I suppose to the full name when for example I have to receive. Check by Google for the Edwards campaign, for example. It's not the same to write just dear Mr Penny. I mean they need to use my full name in order to send me the check and they call this type of name the Postal name, right? They need to write funding. NASA Fernandez the whole thing. And another important issue. When you display the names are the inflections that Richard will show in the examples earlier, before this is particularly important in some languages like Russian and don't remember the other name that other language finished, yeah. And then when you show also auto completion, basically you're starting writing a name. So how do you know that this is a name and what are the suggestions that you give for this names? Same of segmentation. How do you show in a line wrapping when you show the name automatic abbreviation of name? So given that I'm falling asleep on a Fernandes and then how do I show this in the name of the authors of the paper, right? So? Panic, J dot or the whole thing? Right and then there is a issue of text to speech given that you have a data set of names, how do you display this in? Well, using sounds right? And then there are the other big chunk of the use case comes when you try to capture the name so. This is the other way around. This is speech to text, so how do you transform from sound to text? And then there is the issue of how do you actually go and input the name in a form. So do you show only one long piece to piece of input text or do you show 2 which is first name, last name? Or do you show 3 first name, middle name, last name or you show how many? Well this is depending on the culture normally and the language.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So. So yeah, and then there are the problems related to it. One thing that we want to suggest.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Is we came out out of this conversation that are possible approaches to actually try to come up with an ontology of all these possible formats of names that is not currently available, and we think that it will be really useful if we can come up with this on a standard for this. That can. I mean, can people can just reuse these? And some libraries to work with them. OK OK, thanks very much.
