We will talk about mining big and complex data, and so I will first. Say just what do we mean by mining? We can complex and complex data. Not last but not least. Big data include variety and in our context we're talking about Star Trek inputs and structured outputs, and in fact there are other dimensions of complexity which. And then I will also briefly mention a structured output prediction on data streams. So in here, this clinical dementia rating sum of boxes. 80 assessment scale. Here are the target variables, either nominal in the general case of classification or binary. Instead of thinking of a vector of zeros or ones you can actually think of the set of non zero values. Example of hierarchical classification, which we commonly encounter today is the task of gene function prediction. In particular case, this was amino acid starvation, and then they looked out the genes in yeast response to this stress, and for each gene we have different time series as shown in the slide. We are working on predictive modeling, so it's one particular type of data mining and actually the one most commonly encountered where we want to focus on a target variable and predicted values from the values of independent or input variables. Here the particular data set the particular problem that I will mention here is this target variable. The diagnosis with possible values that the subject is completely normal, cognitively normal. Even more complex types of factory output, we can have mixed up as different arguments of the tuple or different types. For example, a mix of discrete and real value targets and besides couple sets and sequences of real numbers. For example, we can have a couple of hierarchies, and this is not. Aspects of complexity which include incomplete annotations. So applications in life Sciences, besides predicting gene function, we have applications in fundal microbiology in environmental science is actually also in agriculture, but I do not really have the time to talk, at least not at this stage. And if these are pretty central, approaching my rest of the certainly not the the only one we're looking at three and rule based models in the context of predictive clustering, which unifies on one 10 predicted modeling and on the other hand clustering. Also provision and the trees are actually also nicely extendable to the streaming context. These partitioning a set of objects into clusters of similar objects. If all of the examples of homogeneous they belong to the same class, we just make a leaf and predict that class value. Otherwise we try all of the different attributes and find the one which it uses the most. OK. And we want in the end to have leaves of the tree which have low variance. But of course the variance now measured as in clustering. That reconstruction algorithm to construct a substance. In predictive modeling, the distance is measured around one time measured only. Once we have these predictive clustering, three approaches, we can also do the nice things like ensembles of politically clustering trees. So for example, we have packing, we have random forests, random subspaces, combinations of these, and we can do all of this with the predictive clustering trees, and this is all in the course software developed jointly. My group is also supported by the Human Brain Project, the landmark project and a couple of Slovenian projects, and we're also proud to and. So the data can be big cause actually it has a large number of columns. So when we have large numbers of problems when you have massive data, we need efficient data mining methods to process this large large quantities of data and to go to the extremes. The number of rows actually can be potentially infinite, so data can keep arriving one row. At high velocities in a specific order, with the number potentially arbitrarily large, so this is the paradigm of data. Act accordingly, so in this context. So this is what I would call structured input data.