[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good morning. My name is Sasha Eroski and if it's my great pleasure to welcome you to office. I'm bored. End to the summer school on mining. Freaking complex data so the school is primarily supported and organized by members of the Maestra Master Project. Our local hosts from the University sensible and methodical since Copia. If it's a bit risky here, your divisor of your distress or skill where they are very of registration desk. The project includes also. From Uganda, coordinated by myself and Dragon quotes, and then the University of Body, you have weakened rotation here. Secure portal. Jewel is here somewhere. The Roudybush College Institute from Silent Auctions is is here so today well one practical issue. First everybody wants to get connected to Internet so there is zero. You might have noticed there is also a wireless network of the Congress center. It says Congress and center and then the passport is the first word lowercase congresses. But with this out of the way, we have a very rich program of the school, five almost full, almost full days, so I'd better get going with the content. We will talk about mining big and complex data, and so I will first.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Say just what do we mean by mining? We can complex and complex data. Of course, in big Big data, one of the primary issues is the volume. We have large quantities of the data, but then also the velocity. This data might be arriving fast in the form of data streams. Not last but not least. Big data include variety and in our context we're talking about Star Trek inputs and structured outputs, and in fact there are other dimensions of complexity which. As we go along. So my talk will be after structured as follows. After a brief introduction I will talk about different tasks of predicting, such as outputs that we're working on solving. This includes multi label classification, hierarchical multi label classification, multi target regression, predicting shorts. I'm serious, these kind of things. They never mention the other types of complexities we encounter. For example, incomplete annotations, missing data. Some of this is handled under the topic of semi supervised learning. And then I will also briefly mention a structured output prediction on data streams. These topics will be covered in more depth in the forthcoming days and towards the end of my talk I will outline one possible solution to the problem of structured output prediction, which follows the paradigm of predictive clustering and then indicate in which directions we are doing. Development stores. Sandy supervised learning, mining data streams. But this will be. Explained more in the following talks, like the talks right after mine focuses on supervised structured prediction. So, but we have quite actually a diverse audience at this school, so I really need at least to illustrate the basics. The mining is getting broader and bigger field and I.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Want to state first the main focus of our research? We are working on predictive modeling, so it's one particular type of data mining and actually the one most commonly encountered where we want to focus on a target variable and predicted values from the values of independent or input variables. A classical problem is the problem of medical diagnosis where we have some data about the patients and we want to get. Diagnosis. An example that comes from the human Brain Project is the one concerning nature of the generative diseases. There we are looking at Alzheimer's Parkinsons and similar diseases. Here the particular data set the particular problem that I will mention here is this target variable. The diagnosis with possible values that the subject is completely normal, cognitively normal. They have some memory concerns, mild cognitive impairment, or late night cognitive impairment. And of course, the most severely affected patients have Alzheimer's Alzheimer's disease. The example.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Ask that you address in this context. Context is to predict the diagnosis from a set of potential biomarkers, so this includes some genetic information like this app, only four related gene, which is known to be associated with Alzheimer and a variety of features derived from image in different types of images. Also looking at the volumes of different parts of the brain like the hippocampus. As well as the total interceptable volume.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Here we have an example of decision trees that from these variables that I outlined in the previous slide, predicts the diagnosis, and here on the far far left the branch, the predicted diagnosis is Alzheimer's disease and the tree is looking at some features derived from the from the images. Far right diagnosis. Early mild cognitive impairment. So from the variables that we saw in the previous slide, the three predicts the diagnosis, which is the target variable of interest. No, this is an example of a classification task because the diagnosis has five possible values, discrete values, but in predictive.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Opening we also encounter regression tasks. For example, if we want to predict the the temperature or the precipitation for tomorrow. These are real numbers and this would be a regression tasks. OK, so this is the basic problem that we are looking at in the context of which we are then encountering all of these complexities that you were mentioning so large volumes of data, velocity of data and the different additional types of complexities.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So what, specifically by do we mean by volume and velocity? So the data can be big cause actually it has a large number of columns. It's high dimensional and we're encountering more and more of this type of data. For example in high throughput screening microarrays, genome sequencing. So for a single patient we can have many many different. Values of different variables in this context, then we typically need to select some of those to select the most relevant variables for the tasks we are interested in testing. Then another possibility that the data can be large is actually the large number of rows, and people usually talk about data with large numbers of rows when they talk about big data. If you just get 10 patients, they would not say it. Big data, even though you might actually have 10s of thousands or hundreds of thousands of of data values for these patients. So when we have large numbers of problems when you have massive data, we need efficient data mining methods to process this large large quantities of data and to go to the extremes. The number of rows actually can be potentially infinite, so data can keep arriving one row. One example at a time. At high velocities in a specific order, with the number potentially arbitrarily large, so this is the paradigm of data. Data streams the data are streaming, and we're really only allowed one. Look at the data, we cannot go back with really far back in time. Maybe we can keep a number of data items, but certainly not a significant proportion of all the data that will. An additional complication that can arrive in this setting is that when the data keep coming and so there is a time dimension involved, the data generated at different points in time. In fact there are distribution either on the input space or the output space on the joint distribution can in fact change overtime, and this is known as concept drift and in the context of mining data streams we need to be able to detect such changes and actually also. Act accordingly, so in this context. We need fast processing of the data to the velocity. Typically we need to calculate some statistics based on the data that arrived and then we need to let go of the data and then focus on the next data. Items that are alright. So we need fast processing on one hand. But also we need economical management of the available memory because the models that we built from large quantities so efficiently manage that.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So. On this slide I just use this concept that the data just keep arriving in data streams and they keep arriving and they keep arriving and we need to process them as they as they arrive and this is the task of regression where we have a real valued target. If the target was discrete, this will be a classification problem.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Next we show we encounter with Big Data is the variety of the data that can really come in all sorts of shapes and sizes. And here I have an example from actually environmental from their environment experimental domain where we want to predict how fast compounds degrade in water when the compound sending the environment is actually very important that they removed on their own, so they decompose otherwise. We need to worry about removing them from the environment and. Candice typically analyze this type of data by manually putting together some features that describe the chemicals, the chemical compounds, but really the chemical compounds and natural described by graphs by the graphs of their structure, what atoms are in the compound, how these atoms are connected. So this is what I would call structured input data. So the task here is to predict the time of degradation or some other property. And this is a regression task, so similar to the ones that we discussed before. But here the input data does not nicely fit into into a table, but we have these structures. In this particular case, graphs. In other cases other data types. And.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
We will unfortunately not talk too much about that, but powerless Pony will talk later today. Will talk about structured, structured data and kernel some unstructured data. We are more interested in especially in this Maestro project is looking at structured output where the input is a vector of data as we saw it earlier, but on the output Now we don't have just a single scalar value, either discrete or continuous, likely in classification regression, but rather we have a data structure on the output side, so this might be actually a subtree of a given taxonomy. In this task shown here, we have a task of. Classifying taxonomically diatom images. Taken either under the microscope and here. Actually, the classification is a branch of this of this taxonomy, and that action should be labeled with all of the taxonomical levels as deep as possible to species or subspecies override level. The input features extracted from the from the images and the output is a branch from this taxonomy, and in fact we can.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Encounter many different tasks of structured of structured output. We can have multi target classification, multi target regression. Mixed multi target prediction. Then we can have also hierarchical multi label classification. The task of the specification of the items was one of this type of predicting time series is short or long where the temporal structure of the output we want to predict is important.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So for multi target prediction as I mentioned we can have multi target classification. The first table shows that we have three targets and the bottom table shows a multi target regression task where we have three continuous variables that we want to predict. In fact.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The task that we looked at earlier, the same data for Alzheimer's disease, besides the biomarkers that I mentioned, also includes a variety of clinical scores that assess the status of the patient. So in here, this clinical dementia rating sum of boxes. 80 assessment scale. Mini mental state examination impact. We have some 23 clinical scores and when we try to predict these clinical scores, all of them from the biomarkers at the same time. We have a multi target regression regression task and so on.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Slide we actually have such a model, which again first looks at some feature derived biomarker than it looks at the volume of the Hypo campus, and then at the bottom. Here is predictions for all of the different 23. Cinco Cinco scores, so this is a task of multi target regression.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
No, we have also the task of multivariate classification and multi label classification. Here are the target variables, either nominal in the general case of classification or binary. If we're talking about multi label classification and in the case of Multi label classification. Instead of thinking of a vector of zeros or ones you can actually think of the set of non zero values. So the set of all ones these are called labels and this is called Multi Label. An example that we have encountered actually quite quite early in our research is predicting communities of organisms in different habitats. So the paper here is except from real data collected by biomonitoring of Slovene rivers on the left hand side. We have physical and chemical parameters describing the water and on the right hand side we have actually at least. All of the docs at the different plants and animals encounter things live in reverse, and if we have a zero in this table then we haven't found the particular species. But if we have one, this means this species has been have been observed and in practice in fact the number of targets here it goes more into the hundreds or 1000 because there are many different organisms that you encounter in Slovenian rivers and the.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Models can also have the form of decision trees in the Leafs, where we make the predictions now, we predict not just for one species where it will be present or absent, but rather we predict all of the species that will be present and we can see that in certain situations we have very few species or taxa being predicted like on the fire. On the parallel we have Metropolia into prefix. These are indicators of bad water quality to be fixed, actually flatworms. Nasty little creatures you don't. One of them around and they are very indicators of very polluted water and on the on the right side. If you look at the 2nd or the 3rd leaf from the leg you have the predictions that gammarus falser room is there. This is a little freshwater stream and those indicators of good water water quality and of course there is not just one species but we have a number of species there indicating also some biodiversity in the. Sites now.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
In hierarchical multi label classification besides just the individual labels for which you predict presence or absence, there is actually some structure on top of the of the labels, and these are hierarchically organized and. But addiction of the presence of biological organisms is a case in point cause for them we have the taxonomy of living organisms, and in fact if we take the taxonomical three and in that tree we just mark the nodes corresponding to the species present, we have exactly a task or hierarchical multi label classification because in one sample we typically encounter more than one species. We actually saw that on the previous life and there is the taxonomy of living organisms which imposes this structure on the on the other side. Thanks. A simile.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Example of hierarchical classification, which we commonly encounter today is the task of gene function prediction. This is a very important task nowadays. Lots of generals get sequenced and we need to predict the functions of the genes and predicting gene function is a hierarchical multi label classification task. Because each gene can have more than one function and these functions are typically organized into a hierarchy like the gene ontology or fun cat or map man. Different ontologies of gene function depending on the area. So for plants it's more about month, let's say. OK, and.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
The final task that I would like to mention is predicting of time series. So if you imagine that you have microarray data gene expression levels. Collected four different genes at a number of time points. Typically these are quite short time serious. And they would be 5 to 12 points. And you can imagine that you want to predict the response of a gene to a certain type of stress. For example, if this is a bacterial gene, we expose the bacterium to an antibiotic and then we see how the bacterium responds to this to this strength and expressed more or less after exposing it to the antibiotic. And if we want to predict this response, this temporal profile from, let's say, the gene function or other properties of the gene. This is a task of predicting short, short time series an exam.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
On this slide we have some data of this time. This was actually in East, exposing the East to shock. In particular case, this was amino acid starvation, and then they looked out the genes in yeast response to this stress, and for each gene we have different time series as shown in the slide. And we can actually.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Even more complex types of factory output, we can have mixed up as different arguments of the tuple or different types. For example, a mix of discrete and real value targets and besides couple sets and sequences of real numbers. Let's say we could actually have tuple sets or sequences of more complex values. For example, we can have a couple of hierarchies, and this is not. I'm not just making up this complexity. When we predict gene function according to the gene Ontology, the gene ontology actually consists of three hierarchies. You have cellular component, molecular function, and biological process. So what you really want to predict is a total of three sub hierarchies of heart disease, and so it's important to have principled ways of handling this. We can also have top of time serious if we look at exposing used to stress. We can have different types of stress. I mentioned amino acid starvation, but you can also expose it to a heat shock. Or if we're talking about the bacterium, one type of stress is exposing it to one antibiotic. Or we could have another antibiotic. Or again, we could expose it to pair up side or things like this. This is what biologists actually do. They do these kinds of tests.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And then you have actually a couple of signs of time series for a single gene. You have the responses of the gene for the different types of stress, OK? Let me now move to the US.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Aspects of complexity which include incomplete annotations. On one hand, they also include network context, the classical assumption in statistics is that your data have been collected by drawing them ID from the same distribution, but each sample is drawn independently. We know that in real life this is not really the case. If we talk about. People people have different interconnections, so considering each person individually without these relations to other people is not always the best of ideas in the context of gene function, you want to predict the function of the gene, but it is known that certain genes interact with each other, and certainly this is not independent of their function. So this type of network context that we want to take into into into account so.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
We have then different slightly modified tasks of classification, regression and structured output prediction. I start here with the simplest. I first talk about Semi supervised learning, Semi supervised classification and regression. Here some of the target values are missing. Normally when you get that able to analyze, you want to learn a classification or regression model. You assume that OK, all of your data.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Most. So applications in life Sciences, besides predicting gene function, we have applications in fundal microbiology in environmental science is actually also in agriculture, but I do not really have the time to talk, at least not at this stage. We are looking at sensor network data will get social networks. We're looking at multimedia data like image annotation, which we hold. Sentiment analysis these kind of things. OK, so in the remaining time I will talk.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
But one of these approaches that we take to address these different aspects of complexity. And if these are pretty central, approaching my rest of the certainly not the the only one we're looking at three and rule based models in the context of predictive clustering, which unifies on one 10 predicted modeling and on the other hand clustering. And this makes it very easy to handle different types of structured outputs on one hand, but also to do same supervised learning which I mentioned or do. Learning with partial labels, so with different degrees of. Also provision and the trees are actually also nicely extendable to the streaming context. One of the most well known algorithms for learning from data streams that we based algorithms, which can be nicely made incremental, and we have adapted also the predictive clustering framework. So deal with the with the network context and once we have handled the different aspects of complexity we can also combine them. Combine them effectively. OK, so.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Let me say a few words about predictive clustering. Predictive modeling with this.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Must be kind of table. We have one target variable and centered on inputs or attributes. And.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Clustering I didn't talk much about, but you probably all know you've heard about clustering clustering. These partitioning a set of objects into clusters of similar objects. We want the objects within the cluster to be highly similar, but then we want the different clusters to BS. Different tests as possible this is. I love minimizing intra cluster variance and maximizing intent cluster. You can also have hierarchical clustering's. Where some of the clusters are broken down into sub clusters down to individual examples and so.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Uh, pretty clustering then combines these two paradigms. It makes the basic observations that hierarchical. Three structures actually. The decision tree structures which we were looking at earlier are also hierarchical clusters. It just takes this viewpoint. Changing this viewpoint that the decision tree actually is also a clustering and. In this, once we change this viewpoint with each cluster we get also description of the cluster. OK, because we when we get to each leaf of the tree which is a cluster, we get the description of that cluster, which are the conditions from the root of the tree until they leave. And of course we still get a predictive aspect because we can use the input attributes to predict the values of the of the of the targets. So the output of predictive clustering can be viewed both as a clustering. Model, but also has a pretty good model and this example which we looked at earlier.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So from the domain of neurodegenerative diseases you can. You can view these three as a clustering of the patients in terms of their clinical scores. OK, so each of the lives of these three represents a set of patients which have similar value of the clinical scores. You open up the field of history is that you can actually predict the clinical scores from the biomarkers OK, and the bond markets are the ones in the blue boxes. And the clusters of described by combinations of values of the bottom Microsoft just for a reminder.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Oh, and it's for the classification case. If all of the examples of homogeneous they belong to the same class, we just make a leaf and predict that class value. Otherwise we try all of the different attributes and find the one which it uses the most. The impurity of the target so reduces the entropy. In the case of classification, reduces the variance in the case of the connection, and once we find such an attribute, we put that on the top of the tree. We split the examples. And recursively called the same the same algorithm. The.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Confirming predictive clustering is very, very similar to this one. We just need to change one or two key points and the first one is where we want the examples to be homogeneous enough. Now here community is defined in terms of having low variance, but these variances now generalized. It is not just for a single continuous variable, but it can be for vectors of continuous variables. It can actually be for hierarchical structures, it is the variance that we mentioned in clustering. When I said earlier, low variance within the cluster and high variance across clusters, it's that notion of variance that we are now using here. OK. And we want in the end to have leaves of the tree which have low variance. If this is the case, right from the beginning, we just need to leave, but otherwise we test the different attributes and select the one which produces the most variance. But of course the variance now measured as in clustering. According to this more complicated. Distance measure from that point on, it's again the same, recursively called. That reconstruction algorithm to construct a substance.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And here on this slide we have exactly this variance measure. So this is the within cluster variance is the average distance between the prototype between the centroid of this work. And the individual examples. So the wise and individual examples P of S is the problem, like the centroid. OK, and for for this variance measure, the distance is measured in clustering is measured along Boulder dimensions. If you have a table, the distance is measured along all of the dimensions. In predictive modeling, the distance is measured around one time measured only. You only interested in the variance of the target. You're not really interested in the variance of the of the other. Nicholas, any particular clustering you can actually. Speak any combination. You can take all of them into account. You can take just the target into account or some of the input center targets and this makes it very very flexible, but you will see next. For example, the same supervised approach crucially depends on this.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
It's only spent OK and this is just looks like this point. In clustering. We want this circular clusters statical in the multi dimensional space. An intuitive modeling. You see we can actually have them quite squashed in the target image and they can vary but they can be very spread across the other dimensions which we don't care about.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So here are some of the distances that we that we use for different structured output prediction tasks for multi target regression we can use the sum of variances along each of the dimensions rather than just one for multi target classification we can have the sum of entropies or some of Gini indices for each of the different classes. For hierarchical multi label classification we have a variance measure. She puts more weight onto the higher levels of the hierarchy and lower in the lower levels of the of the fire.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Once we have these predictive clustering, three approaches, we can also do the nice things like ensembles of politically clustering trees. We can bring on a lot lot of machinery. So for example, we have packing, we have random forests, random subspaces, combinations of these, and we can do all of this with the predictive clustering trees, and this is all in the course software developed jointly. By my group in new Donna and the group of 10 people killed in Lebanon and so.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Here we have. And it was fiction of the banking approach, where from the training set we generate different bootstrap replicates. Then we applied the learning algorithm to each of the booster replicates and then we get a set of models. When we get a new example. It is a classified by all of the models and then we combine the predictions. OK, except that in predictive clustering now we can have complete complex targets. So we predict vectors and then we aggregate the vectors. Or we can predict hierarchies and we aggregate the handles. So that's that's the only that's the only difference. However, again, this gives us a lot of power. I will just stick with one more example and then I will stop.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
For example, the sampling approach with random forest gives a very nice way to estimate the relevance of individual features. There is quite a lot of work, for example on the feature relevance for multi label learning and all sorts of tricks are being used, but with our approach of predictive clustering trees and random forests operating cost entities we get a very nice way of estimating the relevance for different types of structured targets.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
We can do this for multi target regression. We can do this for multi label learning etc etc whereas we get in the literature lots of different approaches where people are trying to get at this problem and not quite succeeding.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
So this is the same random forest mechanism where we randomize individual input attributes and then see how much the error increases because of that. OK, and.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
As I mentioned, this works for all types of outputs. Weekend predictive clustering trees for multi target classification, multi label, hierarchical, multi label classification and multi target regression Moreover.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Given that we have extended the paradigm of predictive clustering trees to do semisupervised. Picture we immediately get a mechanism for estimating feature ranking in the semi supervised setting or actually feature ranking in the unsupervised setting because we can use with clustering trees only for clustering, not necessarily for prediction. So this is a very very powerful paradigm and we get along.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Lot of leverage from the possibility to combine the different complexity aspects so.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
But the very next talk will be on semi supervised learning, predicted faster increase.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Later on we will have a talks on learning visitis to predict structured outputs in the context of data streams and later on.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
We will have talks about learning networks and applications of mining big and complex data. So F.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Point I would just like to acknowledge support. Of course my extra has been a major source of support for organizing this this summer school. My group is also supported by the Human Brain Project, the landmark project and a couple of Slovenian projects, and we're also proud to and.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Notes that the European Conference on Machine Learning will be held in Macedonia next September. So put this in your in your calendars and with that I'd like to thank you very much for your attention.
