So that's why we call it blue skies and that's why my consultancy company is called Blue Skies. 1 billion US dollars in research and development costs. With Phillips so huge amounts of technology base, but John came to me and he said I want GE to be a cell company. And particularly not having to write grants when I left Kings, we had 18 people in my lab and you can imagine you know 18 postdocs, PhD students, the amount of effort it keep it takes to keep everyone funded is a huge effort. You know that comprise the matter, poetic stem cells, mesenchymal or mesenchyme, all stem cells. Some other things I won't really talk too much about things like neural prosthetics. Using in vivo diagnostics and regenerative medicine, being able to track cells around the body, two things I will talk about our kind of adaptive manufacturing of tissues and organs and a little bit on machine brain interfaces. Early human embryos and these cells have two unique capabilities that leads 2. What makes this field extremely controversial, particularly in Catholic countries and in places like the US, is that we rely on the use of in vitro fertilized embryos, so this is human evolution in human development in addition. So what you do is, as I said, the embryos were generally frozen on day three, and then when they were donated to our research program. Breast reconstruction is a big problem in women who've had really, really severe mastectomies and then followed by radiation. And then these were the things that we thought long term. And we used how we used the culture conditions for how you make mouse embryonic stem cell lines which had been around for quite awhile. You can take two really good embryos and put into a woman. So we ended up cutting them up using little little glass scalpels that we made by taking glass pipettes and pulling them into little scalpels, and we basically cut them up into little clumps, and we found that some of the clumps would survive give rise to secondary colonies, tertiary colonies over and over again. We're going to be a human embryonic stem cell company.