Semantic dictionary but still dictionary. Shortly discuss what we need to make a word in the dictionary and useful language resource and next will claim that word is not enough. So first we try to build a large corpus as possible. This is the list must be filtered manually then 'cause you can find a lot of non words in on the list. We built a measure of semantic relatedness. We started with something like 700 million words, but for the version three point 4.0 we had to expand the corpus to 4 billion tokens and still in the case of nouns we went down to nouns or caring 20 times per for 4 billion words so. Measure of semantic relatedness here is just like different colors. So obtained from corpus, for example, you can try to extract with instances of different relations by, for example, manually constructed lexical syntactic patterns. But you can try to use more generic patterns. For example, we reimplemented espresso system of. So, but on the basis of different knowledge sources, we can identify possible connections. Our linguist started calling with a Big Brother because you could follow minute by minute, second by second, who is doing what in the end. So first of all, we in order not to keep in the same sense that lexical units from different stylistic registers we introduce into. I would say construction and next we have occurrence of two situations and here we decided to the term of Melanie me. Just boring, boring borrowing it from Truman me so many between verbs mean that means that the situation is an element of a larger, more general situation, and this core carriers in the same time necessary necessary simultaneous Co occurrence is important factor like. For example Zarco hot show you see the traffics is evil is means the beginning of courage to love. So without being in a situation processor iety. 53 different types of relations, 107 counting subtypes, but all of them are quite frequent, some of them only have couple of hundreds of instances, but still. But still we follow the idea of lexicographer files from Princeton Wordnet. The same usage examples are defined for lexical units and links to Wikipedia. A semantic syntactic semantic valency lexicon mapping of word, net onto ontology and some knowledge resources like big lexecon of proper names mapping. More frequent 1000 and also we we analyze appear word does a small world from the network theory. The same global clustering coefficient is getting higher with. Downloading awareness, so we found a lot of different types of possible applications. Your website, but also we found a lot of citations, a lot of applications in linguistics in natural language processing in open domain question answering, building quasi ontology and we're very proud of one exception application. The last one mentioned here, our one of medical companies in Rd swap is using our word. For making it available so corpus based wouldn't develop to conclude corpus based word development methods allows for good coverage of language data is very big plus for them and close relation to the language use in many more. Also, I mentioned the large text corpus was primary data source as we assumed and the process we always start. So our my colleagues were using such simple tools like concordances but also advanced like extraction of semantic similarity relations since clusters are. And also another problem was that for lexicographers, the most natural elements to be described where something like lexical units lemma, part of speech, sounds, identifiers, just words, not since it's where you wanted to start from words, not from sensors. So finally we propose to make such lexical units basic building block in Word, not the kind of compromise and try to find some way of going from let's say, units to a sense it to a definition of sense that. It started in that moment situations started developing, started improving and we discovered that OK, we can be quite well agree on hypernymy more or less on metal Nemean some operations. So we develop idea that this relation should be the source for defining censored. And semantic classes for adjectives and adverbs in order to group them into groups that behave in a similar way in terms of a structural word. What can we call a constitutive constitutive relations? But that consumer relations must, it would be good to have them well established in linguistics. So it means that that they are relatively frequent, because if a relation occurs in a couple of cases it wouldn't produce nice groups of lexical units, and there must be shared for example. I know only that Anthony cannot be used for defining sense, it's because it's not shared, so.