So first time, so this is the questions we're asking how I think you know. Two basic viewpoints of worldwide is there are two models divided the web document there as well. Well as an information system and how this information system connect to other things and then because in my paper we won't get the final six pages so I cannot describe. Yeah, so this is what I'm going to do. We can communicate waiting right through the life you know through the air molecule and on the other hand we can communicate through the web use document. Is this what is objective? You can buy the top right, but that's not at all what you get back is always about. So if you go down to think about what exactly are backing means, it is a structure. There's a new. I don't know how. So meaning, on the other hand, is subjective, so so the purpose of communication is to communicate what might subjectively to you through the sharing of the objective. Actually nobody knows why you see if you look at the web you know, I think the idea of nature, of data, information and knowledge is very. With the reference of the direction of information flow, so I'm talking to you, so I'm basically. So eventually what I'm trying to pass, so with regard to this information flow, what is in mind one state. Symbol information and this is not really supposed treasure, so references were the symbol denotes. It has an information system with these basic. But because there is. So that's an ecosystem so. For example, the identity identity equivalence between the HTTP and HTTPS. So what the document exactly what is part of the entity? So this is an ethnicity because they allow us to find the Internet so you can save the DNS. So are you saying that these are layered? You know, I don't think about it right so? So you can say this denotation of document HTML element named by. Because then you should know how you supposed to follow this advice. For example, if I said this is the UI. So if I said this guy is a persistent, so you have to say what kind of persistency is because. Mechanically, it is not a technical. So here is the definition we get from from the data. So this is the WW is an information space in which you know things are denoted by your hand. They say what it is, but actually there there's one thing actually important. To understand what the resource is, this is the whole. Think of the communication you know. We ask people. All of these essential characteristic can be committed in message. Most people will break, but then when you ask what is the essential characteristic of the image? Image. So what is the information? Is information the image what you see but? So that gives me is because when we say penetrate right, so we will think about, you know what is precision? So the patterns that what's the meaning of the pine tree not now the war package itself. So my point of view at the end of the day is the only thing the only knowledge we know from the very top level of the web architecture is 3 feet. OK so so basically so here is the first model. You know it. So then this is called, you know the web document and then you build other things like you know what they think is person you know gene or whatever and then you do nothing at 303 two this way. The second model, which I think is the web of things so so these.