So functionality tells the whole story. With sensors we might ask ourselves how can we capture their functionality so concretely GPS device it's determines the current location. And how can we explain the difference between this and a temperature sensor or pressure sensor and so on? An solution that I proposed for this and other people of course, is to see sensors as web APIs, basically so just treating them like any other API and by web APIs I mean HTTP APIs. Nice, we capture their functionality with rest desk, so Rest Desk is a format we've previously developed and it describes the functionality of hypermedia driven APIs. So in first party if Bart says well if we have this thing, that's a temperature sensor. The thing is, sensors might be very powerful, but if you want to answer a query that goes beyond the task of a simple sensor, we need to combine multiple APIs. Multiple sensor map APIs infects and those queries can be really complex of course, so and the other thing is also that API's are not necessarily known in advance, so you basically trying to combine things that you've never seen before. A table in a nearby restaurants. I want to sit outside. Suppose we have a lot of different APIs that are dispositions, so many of them, some of them are sensors like location, where we know and temperature pressure and so on. Arresters descriptions will enable automated composition because the cool thing is remember rests descriptions are in fact just rules. Am this is an easy question to answer because since descriptions are rules in fact success or satisfaction of the goal is defined as entailment. Is actually the proof of the entailments. There is a proof of the entailment will contain all the rules that were used to achieve the entailment. Algorithm behaves like a good semantic web citizen. And the other thing we tested was well, if we have a chain of 32 APIs, but lots of other APIs are not related to the problem, how fast can a reason to discriminate? It's so fast that it will work on web scale because it chain of more than 500 API. We did more than just try this in theory and working on computer and we had some students who implemented this on our review boards with real pressure sensors and so on, and those simple sensors were described as web APIs and Rest desk and there was a central composing mechanism. Ask website and I'm also available on Twitter for this questions. This sensor is going to work with this other sensor and this way, and this is cool and already very powerful, but the trick is that the intelligence comes from humans. Interested in automatic sensor compositions where the sensors them self can be automatically arranged into composition and then you could say that the intelligence comes from the system and with still image those sensors function. I also strongly believe in bridging between people and things, devices, sensors and so on, and I think the way to do that is of course to go through the web. And my research as a whole is about intelligent web APIs combining web APIs and today I will talk about how.