[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, thanks a lot. I hope you all enjoy lunch since this is just after lunch. I'm not going to start talking about sensors directly. Let's first talk about people and more specifically, what does it actually that makes.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So smart if you think about it. There's lots of things. There's some education makes us Marth sometimes. It's also talent and other things, but I think one of the things that truly makes us smart is cool.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Operation we as humans we work together to solve a problem like these little boys, probably on their own. They can't really repair this thing, but if they work together I'm sure they can. Maybe in 10 years. But still, it's about the collaboration we learn from each other. We do things together.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So this is what makes people smarter is fundamental in making people smart. So what makes sensors smart? Actually, I think.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Collaboration can be key aspect there because small electronic devices they don't really have a lot of function on their own once their combined they're working together. They can actually accomplish a lot of very interesting things. And there's two.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Kind of collaborations that I see. There's a kind of manually mates compositions where you as a human choose. This sensor is going to work with this other sensor and this way, and this is cool and already very powerful, but the trick is that the intelligence comes from humans. If you do it like that way. So I'm more. Interested in automatic sensor compositions where the sensors them self can be automatically arranged into composition and then you could say that the intelligence comes from the system and with still image those sensors function. And this is what I want to talk to. You talk about today is automatic sensor composition with intelligence coming from assist? Maybe first bits about the context.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
This research, so I'm a researcher at Ghent University, an eye mites in Belgium, an my big long term dream basically is is you know those intelligent agents of the semantic web that the people always talk about when they introduce semantic web, but we haven't quite seen them yet. I don't claim I will invent them, I just claim, but I like the idea and try to do some small things that might contribute to history. I also strongly believe in bridging between people and things, devices, sensors and so on, and I think the way to do that is of course to go through the web. The kind of web of things vision I strongly believe in that. And my research as a whole is about intelligent web APIs combining web APIs and today I will talk about how.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
We can basically use Web API composition to also make sensors work together. So this talk.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
As three parts, I'll first explain how I am trying to catch the functionality of the individual sensors. Then I'll explain about how we can use those individual descriptions to combine the sensors to do cool stuff, and then I'll answer the fundamental question. Does it scale? So I evaluate whether the things I'm talking about might actually work on the web. First capturing functionality.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So before I explain that you might ask yourselves while I describe functionality at all, I mean a thing is a thing and a thing does what it does. So why'd you need to describe this an extra thing? Well, I think it only functionality fells the whole story of an object of a sensor over device. For example this is a band. What would you do with a pen, for example as an audience? Would you do it again? Right, that's logical. Well, not this pen, but this one you can open a bottle. You'll see it.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
It's just a band, but it's a functionality that defines what it's able to do. In this case, opening bottles you didn't think of that I didn't think about that too. So functionality tells the whole story.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
With sensors we might ask ourselves how can we capture their functionality so concretely GPS device it's determines the current location. How can we capture that? How can we explain this to machine? And how can we explain the difference between this and a temperature sensor or pressure sensor and so on? These are the important questions that we need to focus on before trying to compose a different things.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
An solution that I proposed for this and other people of course, is to see sensors as web APIs, basically so just treating them like any other API and by web APIs I mean HTTP APIs. I mean rest APIs, no rest is a big load is worth what I actually mean with that. This is not a big web services, it's not, so it's not anything RPC related, it's all resource oriented. So concretely with the location sensor. Instead of doing things like get location or whatever, we just said as well. Location is a resource you can access to HTTP. Temperature is a resource you can access through HTTP, so it's all about resources, modeling sensors as resources. So the thing they measure or expose is just a resource. As a first step. Then when you have those web.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Nice, we capture their functionality with rest desk, so Rest Desk is a format we've previously developed and it describes the functionality of hypermedia driven APIs. So rest APIs to be simple basically and it captures that with notation tree. Now. Has anybody heard about notation tree? Luckily I'm happy because normally it's like what is this? Well actually it's RDF with some features added like grass variables and so on. So to just give a bit more functionality that I need to describe those things so don't run away. The next slide will show such a description.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
It's a bit long. This is notation tree. You might recognize some fragments of RDF inside, but maybe let me just walk you through the different parts so you understand what this thing actually means. So it's a big if. Then rule. It's kind of. It's an implication. Basically you see the little arrow first part second.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So in first party if Bart says well if we have this thing, that's a temperature sensor. An if we know the location of this thing, so where it's located, let's say here in this room in this hotel in Boston. Well, if that's the case.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Then what we can do is we can invoke the HP get methods on that sensor and in response it will return a body which will contain the temperature. And of course, this is just HTTP stuff. You could do that even without this description, but now comes the cool part.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
This temperature thing you're receiving will be the temperature at this location. You see, this is a trick. This is how we explain to machine that has never heard about temperatures and sensors before that this sensor thing actually measures the temperature at a certain location. This is how we make the functional connection. So this is the.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Sparse an. Why did we choose rest? Ask? Well, rest desk is one of the one of the models that has a really simple way of capturing functionality. Is just say this is what I have. This is how you access it and this is what it means. So it's hypermedia driven so we didn't see I didn't talk about inputs and outputs. I just talked about resources and their connections. And it captures the functionality. So it explicitly said what this sensor is doing, and it's a rule based, so it's logic implication an remember this last part, because we will need this later on.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
'cause now we're advancing to the second part, which is about how can we now create compositions once we have described all those individual pieces of sensors. Well.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Thing is, maybe we first need to wonder why we don't do compose, just like we wonder why you need to describe them. The thing is, sensors might be very powerful, but if you want to answer a query that goes beyond the task of a simple sensor, we need to combine multiple APIs. Multiple sensor map APIs infects and those queries can be really complex of course, so and the other thing is also that API's are not necessarily known in advance, so you basically trying to combine things that you've never seen before. So this is a cool challenge actually. And to make this challenge more tangible, let's think of a concrete example, it's. Well, it's maybe a bit farfetched, but.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
I think it's interesting. So suppose your summer in Italy an you want to reserve a table in a restaurant, but you only want to sit outside if well. If it's not going to rain tonight because that would be a pity. So this is the query reserve. A table in a nearby restaurants. If weather allows. I want to sit outside. That's the basic idea and.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Suppose we have a lot of different APIs that are dispositions, so many of them, some of them are sensors like location, where we know and temperature pressure and so on. Also restaurant API. This is not a sensor, is just some reservation system that exists. So notes because we treat sensors just as web APIs, duration with other web APIs is really straightforward. It's all just APIs in the end. So how would we solve this problem while?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Well, let's think about the kind of solution just as humans. Not automated yet. And then this could be a way to do it so the I stands for the initial state G is the goal, so initial state is, well, we have picked a restaurant already. The goal is table reservation, maybe outside, maybe insight and those other things are going to help define whether it's going to be inside or outside. Basically we need to know location and then that location will tell us where we have to measure the temperature and where we have to measure the air pressure to make sure. That no clouds will appear tonight for that dinner, so that's kind of the solution you could make as a human if you were to combine those sensors. So now how can we do?

[696.0s - 725.0s]
This is an automated way. Arresters descriptions will enable automated composition because the cool thing is remember rests descriptions are in fact just rules. And rules support inference. And rules can also be chained together, so it's not just inference of a single description rule, but of all those rules together. And the first question we have when creating an automated composition is, well, if we found a solution, there's a solution really satisfied. The goal we wanted to reach.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Am this is an easy question to answer because since descriptions are rules in fact success or satisfaction of the goal is defined as entailment. So if you start with a set of preconditions and we want the set of post conditions, well, if the entailment holds then we have reached a goal. A cool thing is, since success is defined as entailment the composition.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Is actually the proof of the entailments. There is a proof of the entailment will contain all the rules that were used to achieve the entailment. This is what the proof is, but remember those rules can correspond to web API's. So if you know what rules were used, we also know which APIs we need and what parameters we need to invoke them with. So it just might look if you remember we went from red to green, so actually to achieve this goal we might have two separate services, one from red to yellow, another from yellow to green, and this would be a very small composition. But going back to the earlier example, but the different sensors this could.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Look like this basically so we have a certain initial state. We have a certain goal. And then all the web APIs will be rules that will actually make this entailments true. So if you just follow along with the different colors, we see that this one will lead to orange and or actually 2 yellow and blue and yellow and blue will lead to green and green is what we want now. In practice there won't be colors there, but there will be descriptions of the API's of course. The interesting thing here is that. It's actually a little more complex than what I can show here, and make sure that we still get it details in the paper because it doesn't need to exactly match, because now it seems like so this has to be the same and this has to be the same, so there's actually not a lot of scenarios you can support if you restrict that. But Luckily reasoners are smart enough to do inference by themselves, so in practice there might be some inference going on between 2 steps. But of course you don't need those rules because they are not. Actual web service is there. Just no let rules that these knowledge rules are independent of these sensors, so we can just import them when you need them and you can basically supply the reason or without the knowledge it needs to make compositions like.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
A cool thing about rest desk is that the accomplishes composition. Algorithm behaves like a good semantic web citizen. So I mean that you don't need a specific reason to do that. I didn't develop develop a reasoner. I just developed the rest desk rules and the principle of composition. But if you just take the rules an your goal and initial state, you supply them to any reason that understands notation tree, then you will get a composition. It's just a proof. It's the reason or calculating entailment and gives you the proof and you just need to extract the different steps out of the proof without needing a reason that needs to understand the rest ask. And the other thing I mentioned in a previous slide already, so you can use rules to fill the different gaps that might occur. But also we can use ontologies for that and so on. South. These sensors don't really need to match exactly as long as they semantically match, and there's no ledge to express to express that semantics. Then you can create a composition out of that. Also it's domain independent so it can. Generic reasoner can just get knoweledge about different domains and generate compositions without ever having seen anything like that before. That's really important feature there.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So now that I've explained the description, an creation of compositions, the important.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Question is, does it scale? Will this work on the lab scale?

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Yes, people awful thing to him, and talking about reasoners that are slow, you know reasoners stay out, it doesn't work well. It works, but you have to wait for weeks. That's not true. An parts of this misconception is just yet it's perception, because people have only limited reasoning experience basically. Or maybe have heard that it doesn't work. And indeed are cases where reasoners don't really work at the moment. So this is one part of the misconception you'll think is that the methods also influences how termed reasoner can behave. Because if we have to translate from some domain to the regional domain and then translate the output back is accounts will be really complicated and involve a lot of overheads. Because rest ask, your rules can directly go into any entry. Reason are you don't have the overheads. So the only question that remains is is it fast enough. We did some tests there. And what we did was just trying huge composition chains and see how much time it takes to actually compose the tests. We did where an API's with.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Three dependencies, so dependencies are the contact bones. Basically to test how fast a reasoner can change. And the other thing we tested was well, if we have a chain of 32 APIs, but lots of other APIs are not related to the problem, how fast can a reason to discriminate? How fast can it find the APIs, the sensors it actually needs needs to make the competition. So this is what the experiments we ran an well results.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Are pretty goods. It's so fast that it will work on web scale because it chain of more than 500 API. So that's a huge composition. Which one dependency can be composed by the eye reasoner in less than a second? So that's pretty fast, and if we try a huge chain of more than 500 APIs with three dependencies, so this means that every sensor depends on three other sensors directly and not talking about dependencies in a chain from different positions with direct dependencies. Then we got the composition in less than two seconds. So this will work on a web scale and then we tried it. Of course with Adobe Software chain with 32 APIs, impressions of more than 500 dummies to see whether the reason we get distracted and this was still even faster. So it's almost only depends on the length of the composition. The dummies didn't really confuse their reasoning.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
We did more than just try this in theory and working on computer and we had some students who implemented this on our review boards with real pressure sensors and so on, and those simple sensors were described as web APIs and Rest desk and there was a central composing mechanism. There's a video in the making of this where you can see that those kind of composition mechanisms can be used in smart homes to dynamically. Augmented number of sensors. So if new sensors are added you situations can be simulated an so on an this all works with the central composer. Anne goes really fast. So summarizing my folk.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Rest is an automated solution for sensor Web API composition. First we describe rest Web API about APIs with semantic web logic and this logic will enable us to make compositions with generic semantic web reasons.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
So if you're curious about this research, or maybe have some use cases you want to share really, really interested in that, so please go ahead and look up the rest. Ask website and I'm also available on Twitter for this questions. Anne right now. Thanks very much.
