So I'm going to talk about these two different uses of Monte Carlo methods. Bution so these modern Monte Carlo methods are what I'm going to talk about today. Basically, has the idea that what we're going to do because we can't generate from the probability distribution that we want to generate from is we're going to generate from the wrong distribution and then kind of try and correct for the fact that we did that, and there's a very simple sort of mathematical motivation for doing this. Sorry more complex alternative important sampling scheme is that it also works when P of X is only known up to a multiplicative constant, so we don't actually have to know the value of P of X because you can see here we have P of X in the numerator, wakes up here and then we're normalizing all of our weights. Well, this is the optimal distribution in terms of minimizing the asymptotic variance. Simple scheme for doing Bayesian inference is something called likelihood weighting. So the idea is that what you do is use your prior as your proposal distribution. So we have a very simple scheme for approximating Bayesian inference. The average of this function F of X over this probability distribution P of X. What's called an exemplar model in an example model, you just assume that decisions are being made by storing your previous events in memory and then activating those events by similarity. This is the case that Josh talked about on the first day this problem of predicting the future. Given T, we can look at different kinds of constraints. The example that you saw. The basic idea about important sampling, then, is it's a general scheme that we can use for sampling from complex distributions that have similar relatives. Things like posterior distribution when we might know how to generate from the prior or for some other more complex distribution when there's another similar distribution we can think of constructing to approximate, it gives us a way of sampling from posterior distributions in cases where you have the prior and posterior close together, something that can be more efficient and simple Monte Carlo and it has nice links to example models in psychology, but perhaps one of the. Some subset of those and have as a consequence a much smaller hypothesis space that you need to work with, so we can actually do this by exploiting a property of Bayesian inference that you can kind of call yesterday's posterior is today's prior. Today's prior says that you can use the posterior distribution that you've established from the other data that you've observed as a prior distribution for interpreting the next observation that you make, and so that suggests a scheme that we could use for efficiently approximating Bayesian inference and being able to go around and update our beliefs in a way which allows us to attractively make sense of the world around us. So this scheme for updating our beliefs or something that's known as a particle filter. The idea is that what we start out with is a set of samples from the posterior distribution over hypothesis given N -- 1 observations. And so this is just using that important sampling scheme where we take the distribution which we have. So the particle filter is kind of interesting because it gives you a way of doing Bayesian inference with limited memory load, right? Today and so if you do that, you end up with a particle filtering scheme where we take our samples from the posterior given days, one through three. We then sample from the distribution which reflects the dynamics. For example, you might want to know the probability that two observations belong to the same mixture component when you're fitting something like a mixture model. One question you could have is whether you know these two objects belong to the same cluster, and that's something that you could compute with a posterior distribution over clusterings of the objects, and it ends up being an expectation where X would be our assignments of observations to components F of X would be one if two observations belong to the same component and 0 otherwise, and then P of X might be a posterior distribution over assignments. So the basic idea about particle filters is something which is kind of exciting from the perspective of thinking about how people might do something like probabilistic inference, it gives us a kind of general scheme that we could use for defining these rational process models for updating probability distributions overtime. If we think about what happens to particle filters as they get fewer particles than they actually need to give us a good approximation to the posterior distribution. Then you are by subsequent data and so using this kind of approximation can give us a way of understanding what sort of factors might lead to those sorts of errors, and perhaps a way to bridge the gap between these high level computational level analysis. So the Monte Carlo scheme that we can use is then approximate our expectation by the sum over those values that we've generated from this distribution P of F of X and then we just divide by the number of those values and that's reflecting the fact that we're giving each of those equal weight in that approximation to the probability distribution. Here the true value is given by this dotted line, and this is just a consequence of the law of large numbers. So, for example, if you take a mixture model, you have an observations and K components. So we want to be able to generate samples from distributions where, say, we might only know the probability of each state up to a multiplicative constant, and this sounds like a weird situation here, like when's that when do you not know enough about your probability distribution to be able to generate samples from it? That just means multiplying 2 numbers together for each of your hypothesis, but it can be hard to compute this part on the bottom, so a common situation when you're doing Bayesian inference is that you know the part on the top.