So as you know, web portals softly. Maybe it happens even multiple times a day and this can be either newsarticles market data, financial data in others, and their motivation is to get those first time users to become returning users. And then Lastly become loyal users, maybe visit today the page each day or couple times a week at least. This gives us a lot more information about content, topics and enable us to do better analysis in the end. One were from web page sources and the other from user interest sources. Of different feature sources, and this is basically a way that the average distance between examples and there are centroids normalized by average distance to the global mean. It's calculated using different sizes of clusters, different amounts of clusters. As opposed to just taking page content now you can see that user interests even have lower dispersity measures, but. So here are some example clusters. They have a broad range of topics and are not maybe as useful, but these are. The average size of the audience segments in relation to the ground in varete of segmentation. Also added content of web pages to them. An audience segmentation was based on topic profiles of web pages and topics were obtained by classifying pages with custom taxonomy using demos classifier and our small scale experiments show some promise which is interesting. Then we will look at the approach that we took and the whole architecture of the proposed approach and also look at the evaluation of our. So first of all we have this data, visit logs of users. This is basically logs of the websites. And we also used anonymized user data from over half a million of users that are all in this visit logs and we also need to mention that all the pages in here were in English language, so there were multiple languages that we might have to adjust approach a little bit, but not by not, but not by that much. This is term frequency, inverse document frequency statistics and from each of them we get content labels which were inputs by the editorial team and these are used to annotate the users and some of these examples might be Brexit jobs, Europe markets and similar. Common approach to audience segmentation is that they group users by their common interests, behavior, etc. And they can also exhibit different behavior based on their focus. Made things a bit different so we did audience segmentation based on similarity of topics that users are interested in. This means not just the web pages, but actual topics that pages belong to and. So Technographics, technographics or demographic details and URLs give us enable us to give for us to take the contents of the web pages. And then we classified each web page into a hierarchical content topic.