[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hi, I'm at this clinic and I will present the work that we have done in a paper with Lucas Super blush for tuna and onion Laden. Each titled audience segmentation based on topic profiles.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So as you know, web portals softly. Update their content. Maybe it happens even multiple times a day and this can be either newsarticles market data, financial data in others, and their motivation is to get those first time users to become returning users. And then Lastly become loyal users, maybe visit today the page each day or couple times a week at least. And to serve this, they need to serve interesting content to their audience and also provide interesting advertisement to them to get the required revenue.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Now basically audience segmentation by default is dividing audience into smaller groups. This can be either a website audience or some other audience, TV audience, etc, and it is regarded as a key activity in audience analysis.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So we will. We will first continue with that description. Then we will look at the approach that we took and the whole architecture of the proposed approach and also look at the evaluation of our. Work.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So first of all we have this data, visit logs of users. This is basically logs of the websites. From the news company and there are Pro almost 3000 pages that were crawled. And we also used anonymized user data from over half a million of users that are all in this visit logs and we also need to mention that all the pages in here were in English language, so there were multiple languages that we might have to adjust approach a little bit, but not by not, but not by that much. No, we don't know. We can say we can. We can yeah, sorry. But it is a news company.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So each webpage is now represented as a bag of words with TF IDF weights. This is term frequency, inverse document frequency statistics and from each of them we get content labels which were inputs by the editorial team and these are used to annotate the users and some of these examples might be Brexit jobs, Europe markets and similar. And then we also get user properties out of this such as demographics previously mentioned constant labels and list of visited pages and of course others. Psychographics as well sometimes.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Uh, so. A basic overview would be that first. Common approach to audience segmentation is that they group users by their common interests, behavior, etc. But however this this may be a difficulty because user users may have several interests. And they can also exhibit different behavior based on their focus. So at one side they might behave a bit differently than, let's say in the evening or during the weekends, and cetera. And this approach might be. Might join users together that only shows some interest with the third user. But they don't share an interest between themselves, so there that means that the clusters are pretty sparse, which isn't, which isn't an ideal thing for the analysis.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
In our approach, we. Made things a bit different so we did audience segmentation based on similarity of topics that users are interested in. This means not just the web pages, but actual topics that pages belong to and. Through this we obtain segments of users that are of course visited the interested into the topics of the web pages that they have visited, and some users can appear. Of course, in several segments as well, because they can have multiple interests.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So if you look at the architecture first we see here is the user visits logs and we extract URL's out of them. Crawl the pages and then use the model from machine learning machine learning model to classify the pages into a custom taxonomy and for each URL we get a ranked list of topics. Usually we just take one topic, the top topic, but it depends. So this is the topic selection and out of this we get the latest affairs between URLs and topics and out of that we create that. Topic representation and do the clustering. Now topic representation. This is the considered. Approach you have user visits then you have wonder data about those users that have demographics, psychographic and other information. And for each URL for each web page you get a list of user ID's that have visited that page and for each user ID also have a list of their properties. And. Of course, for each topic we also have a list of URLs which enables us to get a bag of words for the entire topic, not just for separate pages and out of that we create. We do the feature construction, construction and so for each topic. We basically have three types of features, user visits and URL features. Now users have different properties and visits depend, give information about the countries that users were in when they visited the web by. The websites and device and browser etc. So Technographics, technographics or demographic details and URLs give us enable us to give for us to take the contents of the web pages. To create the bag of words. And after that we have of course the final result is segments of users which can be used for analysis. So just to get a better idea. Msum that each page visit is conditionally independent, not that there is some network structure underlying this that if I visit one particular page, I'm more likely in the future to visit another particular page you have any flow of income. Yeah, that's right. Now we don't have. It might be an interesting potential approach in the future, since if I read more of a certain topic, I might be more likely in the future to end up on one of these pages, so it will form a larger part of my interest. Yeah. But it took visits from a couple of days, so maybe if we take our bigger data set and it's yeah you have individual users, which means you could look at information flow and not on the user ID level. But on the user type level coming from your customers vendor data. You could have, even though it's two days you would have much more interesting rich network structure. Yeah.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So then how we did the page classification is by using the Dimas classifier and reached with custom taxonomy. And then we classified each web page into a hierarchical content topic. And we'll look at that about that a bit later, and pages are classified can be classified to any level of the hierarchy. It can be like the third level or fifth. Depends.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So here how it looks like, for example, upper levels of topics give the context. For example, even though you would think that aerospace and aeronautical are pretty similar topics, it it turns out that one is put into context of science and technology, while the other respond into context stuff. Aerospace and defense as a business. And of course, this gave us. This gives us a lot more information about content, topics and enable us to do better analysis in the end.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So we basically had two main types of features. One were from web page sources and the other from user interest sources. And from web pages we got about 60,000. Awards in total in the bag of words matrix and we got about a little less than 1300 content labels as from the users that visited certain webpages.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
If we talk about cluster disparity measure, this is basically we use this to compare influences of different features. Of different feature sources, and this is basically a way that the average distance between examples and there are centroids normalized by average distance to the global mean. This is basically the formula that we did and this is dispersion and then distances. Here we used cosine distance. And the lower the dispersion is, the more the actual actual clusters are compact, meaning they might be more useful for analysis. If the cluster is too broad and you can only talk that, maybe these are general users and that doesn't give you as much of an insight. So we would like to keep that low.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And here is a first evaluation with it. We compared how the relative means central distance. It's calculated using different sizes of clusters, different amounts of clusters. So we used. Basically K means method and we picked either twenty 5100 and 200 clusters. And. The first approach is to only take the page content. The second one was to take user interests, and the third one which is our proposed approach is to take user interests and page content as well. Now as we can look here, it's there is a significant improvement if we take the page content as well end user interests. As opposed to just taking page content now you can see that user interests even have lower dispersity measures, but. This might not necessarily compute better clusters for the analysis. Analyzing the whole clusters is a different thing. Can be automated that much better. This is still a useful information.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So here are some example clusters. These were taking from when we were computing 50 clusters. And of course there are a couple of clusters that are a lot of or you know are pretty broad. They have a broad range of topics and are not maybe as useful, but these are. These are interesting and for example in cluster one we have biotechnology and Pharmaceuticals child held. Cancer is a disease, immune disorders, infectious diseases and pharmacy. So a lot of health topics in this second cluster. We have users that visited models as a recreational activity. I guess these are plane models and airplanes and similar stuff and then astronomy. And the third cluster is pretty interesting as well, even though it only has one topic, and these are basically users that are interested into personal finances. At home and the 4th cluster is about addiction drugs. The wholesale and distribution of chemicals. And beverages as business. Bioinformatics as a science and gun control as a societal issue, for example. So this is interesting. Maybe you could relate this with drugs, so it's it gets really into yeah and the fifth one is interesting as well, so you have. Regional venture capital. Business or financial services businesses. And you've got buses. The transportation and logistics rails as transportation as well agencies as part of a government Honda as a car manufacturer and the environment and carbon cycle. So basically you could say that maybe these are. Tesla Motors users are. And I guess these are these are interested as well. It's basically users that are also interested in both transport environment. And carbon cycles etc. So it's interesting. Regulations of course, because a lot of times environments in the agencies agencies dictate for the environment, regulations will be.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So for the last part of evaluation with it. Basically we looked at. The average size of the audience segments in relation to the ground in varete of segmentation. And here we can see that we took 2015 hundred and 200 segments as an example, and. The median size improved a lot, lowered a lot over the between 2015 hundred clusters between 100 and 200 classes, not by that much. So maybe having 200 clusters is enough. Maybe if we would take 300 clusters. Sure it would be maybe smaller, but then the classes won't be as useful.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And how to conclude? So we took topic profiles which are basically user properties. Also added content of web pages to them. An audience segmentation was based on topic profiles of web pages and topics were obtained by classifying pages with custom taxonomy using demos classifier and our small scale experiments show some promise which is interesting. But in the future of course we would need to take a lot of large scale experiments to further test, test or approach and also add those additional features that were in our proposed architecture but weren't yet. Fully implemented such as user demographics and similar. Now, if there are any other questions I can answer them.
