The stability of PCA, and the relationship between feature selection and sparse PCA. We have empirically evaluated our work against for Cancer Research datasets and we have used three methods with standard sparse PCA method with select the features that maximize solely the maximum eigenvalue of the covariance matrix. And we have also performed the qualitative evaluation based mostly on the go loop data set, which is very well studied in the biology literature, and we have specifically looked for the features that we're uniquely selected by our algorithm and not by the others. As a further work, we will consider alternative optimization approaches instead of solely forward greedy search. We will also consider to extend our approach to kernel K means and spectral clustering, and one very interesting problem that we consider is also parameter tuning for the separation. But I mean, yeah, that that is something that has to be thought about. In the context of this work, we take a slightly different perspective and we adopt A bias variance view over the feature selection problem. The most popular heuristic is Lloyd's algorithm that any EM style algorithm that iteratively updates the cluster standards and up and assigns the objects to the closest. So this slide is to understand the relationship between feature selection for gaming and sparse PCA. And in general, if we want to consider a baseline feature selection for K means it would be a problem of selecting the subset of features that approximates the Caymans objective in the continuous approximation case, a baseline feature selection for PC for principle components analysis would be really to select the subset of features that approximates the K means continuous clustering objective. And in order to achieve this, we should in order to maximize the stability of the K -- 1 dominant Egan vectors of the covariance matrix. What we should do is maximize the difference in the K management to the K eigenvalues of the covariance matrix. Derives stability based sparse PCA problem. So we have a sparse PCA problem to select the features and we achieve this by performing greedy forward search that optimizes certain lower bound on the objective. And this lower bound is shown here.