There are different names so you have a distribution on the discrete variables X1, XN, here. Just sum of sums of determinants of other matrices of the same dimension. The roots of this polynomials are the parameters were looking for. So if you consider sets of values. In some implicit equations like this. The others. Just if you want to do some learning with that, we can just have some distribution of observed frequencies and then we can try to do the same basically. So you can also have some sufficient conditions for parameter identifiability. And so this was my original motivation. Gets really complicated in my experience when you have more components. Three sets of values like this. So what I'm going to tackle is given some night vision distribution P. I will try to compute the set of parameters, so here the. So I think it will lead us to a better understanding of the model. It can also help us to do model selection, so this was one of the original motivation for me to do this work. And with my polynomial I can find the roots. So basically I can find these sets. And if so then you can just test. Are they map to the distribution we given? It's really naive way to do it 'cause there are like a lot of parameters to test. Determinants are different from zero. Or they can be easily modified to be continuous. Basically your estimate will also converge to the true parameter. Once you have a parameter, just look if it's minimizes the entropy, the relative entropy so decaled averaging through the observed distribution. But so and also we have lots of degrees of freedom in the choice of TU&V. Correctly, when you when you have small number of variables. It's small you're interested in, so it's a latent class model naive Bayesian distribution. It's also an advising distribution, and so on, so you can. OK, so to conclude, I think I presented some very simple polynomial equations. So I talked to you about how to apply that to a. I don't think that's the right thing to do, but you also also get some nice implicit equations and I think they can be used to learn hidden causes from data or maybe. But one thing that's interesting with this notation. Between the variables and here is the expression for three variables. With this additional equation, that's going to turn out to be very interesting. So if you have this, if you have some vectors like this then you can write an equation like this that basically says that W is a normal to the space.