Before I go into more details regarding corner, I would like to show you an idea of how the workflow in dynamic execution of Link specification works. So once the writer has reshaped the link specification, it gives it to the planner. Going to replace the estimated cost that Condor had for those functions. The vertical axis is in rugeley logarithmic scale and also it's in seconds and as you can see here, Condor outperforms all of the other planners in terms of time efficiency. So the best average performance was achieved in Amazon GP, where it manages to be 8 times faster than Helios, which is already improved from Canonical. We wanted to see how the different sizes overlaying specification influence the performance of Condor. So again, here we have a plot that for its data set we present the mean and the standard deviation of running 100 link specifications against the data set, and we present from those we present. So basically four link specifications of size 1, atomically specifications. All of the planners had similar results because there is no room for improvement. Condo is a combination of dynamic planning with subsumption, an result Kassing. We found out that. Condor is able to outperform both of the static planners up to two orders of magnitude, and it's up to two orders of magnitude faster. But we have to follow the 4th link data principle, which says we have to link things, which is basically the essence of link discovering more formally, the goal of Link discovery is to find a set of resources S&T, given two sets, S&T capital of resources in a relationship R that satisfy this relation. Another result declarative link discovery frameworks compute and prime, which consists of the set of links, SMT whose similarity measure Sigma is above or equal to threshold Theta and how they do that. And here is an example of a link specification. The bottom link specification. There's been a lot of approaches included, but not limited to genetic programming and refinement operators. Now the second challenge that we're also tackling in this work is time efficiency. He's able to create mutable plans by reshaping the plan. The initial plan of Link specification by information received from a feedback loop between the planner and execution engine. Also, in this approach, we make sure that duplicated steps are executed once and we consider dependencies between the steps of the plan.