[0.0s - 29.0s]
Well, I'm gonna start as John say with the.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Sure of the building Wehrly guys. This building was made in the late 50s. It's in located in the longer St of Mexico which is really long. It's almost 40 kilometers. And it's a really important St. It connects the CD from North North South. In well, I'm gonna talk a little bit about how legal was founded. A Leo was found. For in two years ago, with the help of an architecture firm called Protectora, which is actually in the same building in the 9th floor of this building. In Brutus Davis, which is our curator, and actually she's not working, working in as a director of Red Cut in Los Angeles or the.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Space. It's a lot of too. I can say about this pizza. Really small triangle, really weird shape, so only six square meters, which here in the photo you can think that it's much bigger, but it's actually really small and it works like as a window display for architecture. Now used to be legal biblical, which means like Bible League. They used to sell Bibles in these things. Face an now we convert the space to a architecture. Exhibition space

[87.0s - 116.0s]
I'm going to talk about for exhibition that we have we have we are in the Ninth League a week, all legal, each exhibition in first of all I'm going to say like how do we work on each exhibition? We have an exhibition every three months. And how we select the architectures? We tried to find like. Architects are there making like knew things, specially young emerging architects. And we invite them to make something specially for a space. Thank you so. The first exhibition that we had it was we invite Pennsylvania over each house in which they are from Chile.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And they wanted to show to the Mexican public 12 of the different projects that they have work on it because they were at this time they were having their twelve anniversary. So.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So these were like the first photo that we present to the press. And how when we show them these photos, the Press of the media taught that this base of legal was huge and it was like a typical museum space which is like with wood floors and white walls. And what actually?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
It was only by representation of a museum in a really low or small scale.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So this is the space which with the first exhibition an for us is really important. Also the the context which is. We are really related to the street of incident is an also we relate with the with that neighborhood with his with his romantic on this out which is a really popular neighborhood right now in terms of art and architecture or within.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Well, the second exhibition that we have, it's by South America, enters there from Colombia and that title was floodings.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Because they wanted to show the projects that they have worked with in with water. So they select a couple of projects an we made.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
This structure to show the projects actually here you can see like the three Windows we call like the third window. This glass window that you see here and actually, that's like the Hall from the office building, which we have our office. So which is really important for us also is that this space you can see it like 24/7 from the street and also if you can come in but you don't need to have someone sitting there too. Show you the space is the space that is there for everyone and the majority of the people just pass through it and see that there's something going on. But that's like what we really or I appreciate about this space. That is like in constantly movement with people.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
What happened with this exhibition is was that because of the heat and the vapor and everything? It's our like growing plants in the in the exhibition which we think it was great because we also think that it's exhibition it's transform or evolving time and at the last of these three months the incision was full with plants and. And with.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Or so it was the exhibition that in the nights you can see it was all full with this. And during the day was probably cleaner.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Then the 4th Division that we had was the wheel thing of Carla Dusava, which she's from Brazil.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
We think that the most important thing about the project that we present. It's also really related with the process of doing it. How we work is they show them like the plans of the space in we tried to to make them understand that this is really important. The context is really small so it's. You cannot have like a regular exhibition that you can put like plans, plans or renders or drawings or photo about their projects. We asked them to make it a specific project for that space and. It's really important how we get to the final solution or the final project. In this case she was presenting the project was called the Wheel Things or Easel Stasya and she was trying to. To show to the public, like the balance of things. So we work with magnets and we really have the materials.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
To make like this. A floating things in this space and.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Well, also, here's like part of the team of legal, like seeing the result of it. The as we were talking today in the morning, I will also want to talk about it is like the problem. The real problem with our institution is the lack of founds or money. To make this work. So we actually work with a little super little low budget which is not. Not like it's like $100,000 for a year, which is nothing and with that amount of money we can make like this for exhibitions. We have a lot of support with with partners and sponsors so we always trying to make like a really good project with a little money. Also the team of League it's really small. We were not work we're working like at this moment like myself and two interns. So at the end it's. What I think about Institute is you don't need that amount of money, which will be great if we have it. But you can also make like with great things with. Low money and also with a really small team.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Then the the 4th project I'm going to talk to it. They want to talk about its split subject or free Escobedo for Escobedo was the 2nd Mexican that we show in this space. We like to invite at least one a year once a year, or Mexican architects because we think it's the way to show what is Mexico doing in architecture right now. So also we are focused in Latin America because when it first. Started, we realized that we do that. There wasn't a space for showing contemporary architect, not even Mexico or Latin America, or there wasn't a space as clear as Gallery or space for showing architecture.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So the project of Frisco Weather, which also batteries tell about, talk a little bit about her. It's she she worked with this building, which is are really common. Building in Mexico City. When in the we have a lot of these buildings. They're like all these glass facades in Mexicans and I'm sharing all around the world with this type of architecture. They started putting like layers of thing to try to leave like more comfortable because of the sun or because of the privacy of each of these rooms.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So what she did is she like abstract the these layers and put it all together. Trying to represent it like a like. The problem of modern architecture in Mexico City.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So she separate each of these layers in when we printed in acrylic material and then we put like a light behind it so it works like a.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Like a cube of light in the night. Also, for each exhibition we have like 2 events. The first one is the we have like a lecture, a conference that is dedicated to architecture students and we do it in a really interesting architecture building from Mexico and also we have like the opening and we have that in our space. So this is the day of the opening and we also have a in the same building. The penthouse we rented for the space. So for every three months like this pays the 16 square meters grow to a little bit bigger. That is like 19 square meters for each exhibition.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Also, these are the posters that we ask the architectural make. Till the day we have 8 exhibitions. Actually today is the opening of the 9 exhibition in Mexico and so we ask the architect to design the front. The front part of the poster and also we ask them to ask a person who they would like to write about she's architect or the piece itself of the peace of Riga. So with that we're trying to also to make our research and trying to make like archive of. Of information about legal in about this architects and about the people who's writing for we're going to launch our book and probably in in this year. When when we accomplish that in ligas?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
That is actually the same time that we are going to the three analysis. The other well, that's about the exhibitions an we also have another cycle of events which is called legal interludes. These events are really like more common and well like more casual and more. We just we make them because we thought it could like compliment the exhibitions and also because sometimes we hear like oh this architect is in Mexico. Well let's try to make something with him so.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
We had I'm going to talk a little bit about only three of them. We're right now in the 10 interlude. So for example, we have Peter Tilang in League of giving, just like a really casual lecture in our space in the penthouse.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
We have this that is, we call it collaborates Casita, which is came from the this game of literature, that someone would start to write like the first part of story, then the second one start to complementary. So we do that. We did that with drawings. So that's also like a kind of event that we call Interlude.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And this last one, which is the one that is actually right now in our space. We we work a lot with inaccurate Ninja Boney's which is a Mexican architect. So for this interludes he asked us for a space, the space that you can see there. It's the penthouse of of the building. So what he did is he print photographies like in Super High Resolution an and tried to make like this. The feeling of a boat that it's sinking, so that's why he like put it the perspective a little bit twisted.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And well, I would like to talk a little bit about the that we're really excited about going as we as I tell before, but this time we're going to be accomplished at 10 liters. So for that. For that reason, we're really excited to do something big. So when the invitation of the Denali came to us with that, OK, well, this is a perfect excuse to make something. Bigger than we normally do, so we planned at every two years we're going to invite an architect which is not Latin America, so trying to make like a little bit more international. So for this time we're going to invite a Portuguese architect to Mexico to make the the same exhibition as the last ones. An also we are taking to the Xbone Mexican firm that is called MMA Keys. An we're going to duplicate the space of legal, which is why it's really small and it has like really particular characteristics, so it's really easy to read interpretate this space. So we're going to take our space. We're going to build it there and we're going to have like 2 openings at the same time. Well, that's like the basic idea. I hope you can go and you can see it by yourself and well. Like as an institution, legal things that we are like a kind of laboratory of ideas. We don't know exactly where is this heading. We just know that we're trying to find a new ways to represent architecture. So every time we work with an architect, this is a different type of experience 'cause they architects. They're not artists. So for them and for us is really interesting process of. Talking every time like why are you going to do this? How you're going to do this? We try to to abstract the main idea that is like behind of all the buildings of the architects that we present so. We're just trying new ways to find to explore architecture and that's it. Thank you.
