This talk is really about how to build better solvers for heart problems. And we will do that in a way that facilitates the principle design of highly heuristic algorithms. They may not have provable properties, but I purposefully include any types of algorithms that whether they have provable properties are expected and hoped to perform better than the provable guarantees tell you OK, and that of course includes a huge amount of complete solvers for sat, for example, right? The design space for the hard constraint solver ended up being a parameterized combination of various techniques including construct taboo, surgeon diversification strategy. And as the design space for the soft constraints, we used a highly parameterized simulated annealing algorithm, which again is what people had used before. And we also use different performance objectives for these stages in the final stage it was solution quality after 600 CPU seconds. So that happens on the 24 competition instances, so not quite across the board, but across a large number of instances. Of course I don't need to remind you that mixed integer programming is very widely used for modeling optimization problems in industry mix solvers. A very important role for solving a broad range of real world problems. Solving in one way or another within their business processes and production processes. It's an exact solver based on a very sophisticated branch and cut algorithm in numerous heuristics. Actually a great deal of development effort has been devoted to establishing default dialogue seaplex. Now IBM ILOG CPLEX parameter settings that achieve good performance on a wide variety of mid models. So we automatically configure this starting from the factory default settings. The configuration time was 10 * 2 CPU days, so this was basically two CPU day runs performed in parallel on 10 machines, so not a whole lot actually. One of them is that as you build these solvers, you encounter many design choices. They range from representations such as the search space dealing with the search problem and the neighborhoods. If you have a CSP type problem. I called the next step programming optimization and it really addresses the question how easily. So now what is programming by optimization? Well, the key idea is to avoid premature, uninformed and possibly detrimental design choices, right? Don't guess when you are not in a position to guess, implement the alternatives and expose them. You basically open up the design space by introducing alternatives. Use an odd built automatically an instance based selector, right? So various heuristic components do interact in complex ways, and that gives often rise to rather unexpected emergent behavior, right? We have this huge space of algorithms and we automatically search within it to make all of these things here automatically for a specific application context. Atsila took us about 770 CPU days. Or two hours and 45 at minimum wage, which unfortunately is closer to what a grad student in Canada makes. You can leverage computational power to construct better algorithms more or less automatically. It does that by enabling effective exploration of large design spaces. So therefore it is a rather time consuming process to design these algorithms and the success in this process very often critically depends on experience, intuition, luck and that's not a good situation. The application here is solving sat and coded software verification problems. You could go and try and construct a probably good silver. In the case that that I'm talking about here, what was given the high performance, DPL type SAT solver? These parameters did things such as control the variable and value ordering heuristics so deeply. So that kind of severely limits how much you can play with this and also of course good performance on some instances may not generalize to others and together those two factors make things rather tricky. We will have to discuss the concept of design spaces and design patterns, which I think is a very useful abstraction of various things that people are doing. I will then take a few minutes to relate to you 3 success stories in the hope to convince you that this is actually worth studying a little bit more in detail and they will concern two very very well known problem and one I think that is also quite well known and of interest to you in particular in the timetabling. Roll up your sleeves and do the best you can. But also at least we have observed in our work that human designers typically overgeneralize observations and explore as a result relatively few designs. Because that amounts to an implicit assumption of independence. And these kind of assumptions are often incorrect. Well, I think the solution is what I call computer aided algorithm design, where the goal is to construct high performance algorithms automatically. In fact, this has been heavily studied in various areas, including genetic programming, a relatively new area with operations research that's known as hyper, you risztics, and an area known as reactive search. I don't really feel very qualified to tell you how to roll up your sleeves and make better planners. The human designer also supplies sets of problem instances for performance evaluation. Here, use your little Gray cells and then your little black chips. It would do all that using principle Dan, fully formalized methods for algorithm design, and that is something quite invaluable even if you if you weren't to see much value in the other advantages, this alone would be worth 4. A suite of satin coded software verification instances as far. At this point together with me and my colleague too much, Twizzler had thought automatic algorithm configuration and developed a method called paramel S which I won't tell you much more about, although that would be an interesting thing to talk about, but he will simply use it as a black box as the Domagoj, by the way, because it's a generic algorithm configuration procedure, it doesn't care what you give it, what kind of black box with knobs on it you give it. So this is these are empirical results on software verification benchmarks. That were kept solely for testing mini sat solve with a cut off of 1 hour per problem. And what I mean by that is really principled experimentation combined with generic techniques that can essentially take black box methods be their planners, SAT solvers or solvers for any other NP hard problem. And that in fact was the new state of the art. So let's briefly talk about design spaces and design patterns. Home. There is also the problem of algorithm configuration from components, so this is a slightly different thing, right? Skin cinnamon so I'm a further kind of pattern that can be used as is the idea of online algorithm control. Once again very nice article by who in 1970 by Huberman ET al 1997, followed up by very nice work by a colleague, Comacine, Bart Selman, and again I'm glad you mentioned it will be worked in that in that area. So what do you need in order to search such design spaces? So this is primarily powerful heuristic search and optimization procedures with a significant amount of computing. Power or machine learning methods such as classification, regression and so on, combined with a significant amount of training data or a combination of the two, right? So here are some examples for parameter tuning. Or you can advance stochastic local search procedures such as our own para. In doing so, it liberates human designers from the boring and often menial tasks of fiddling around with parameters or finding out which algorithm works best in which circumstances, and so on. Currently, how do we deal with hybrid design patterns? How good are current methods for computer aided algorithm design? And so the proof for these kind of things is, as they say, in the pudding, and I want to tell you 3 success stories and I can tell you this is not three stories of a million that we attempted. OK, so we tried this first for propositional satisfiability. We tried it for course timetabling and we tried it for mixed integer programming and it worked in all of these cases. There's further success stories that I don't have time to go into here, including protein structure prediction problem that was tackled by my group awhile ago. So very briefly about the portfolio based algorithm selection called Scylla and that that perhaps in its most recent incarnation has been described in Ajera Article Co authored by my Student Link Shoe and my Now post off Frank Houghton, my colleague Kevin Leyton Brown and myself, where the key idea is according to John Rice in 76, given a set of algorithms for a problem in some problem instance pie from that set select from South, the algorithm expected to solve that particular instance most efficiently. Right, so in a nutshell, what's atsila does is it takes a CNF formula. Well, we will enable the effective exploration of large design spaces. It's a classical method from 1979 to deal with sensor at runtime. Second case study in post enrollment course timetabling. So the idea behind posting Roseman Roman course timetabling, which is something that the universities we all care about, is that students enroll in courses and only after that has happened. The courses are assigned to rooms and times not subject to certain hard constraints such as. What we did is we we took one of the best solvers that was available at the time when we started working on the problem, which happened to be a multiphase stochastic local search that used a hard constraint solver that finds feasible course schedules followed by a soft constraint solver that then optimizes the schedule maintenance, maintaining feasibility. The soft constraint solver we left unchanged because we didn't have time and the hard constraint solvers solver we configured automatically, so we focused.