[0.0s - 29.0s]
Ladies and gentlemen. My title is press violence said quite. Interesting question. We accept. Death in in traffic, but we don't accept death in working places. But let's now speak about. Little bit more in detail.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
This Sam. This question. In the beginning I will define a little more in detail what I mean with fresh violence. And then I tell about the research work we have done in Finland and results from the the. Research. And. Finally, some conclusion and recommendations from the research.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
I also speak about Vision 0 or. Why not miss in general? Becausw as professor files mentioned its companion Australia arrive alive. Road users. Shoot so survive alive. Every day, if they behave correctly. Observes traffic regulations. And. Even if they. Make human error they should. Survival. However.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Oh sorry. Accidents occur. And those outcomes injuries had palletes. Which take place. They can be defined as crass violence.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
We used a sample of almost. 1200 fatalities, which were in two vehicle crisis. An single vehicle accidents, awkward on finish. Two Lane rural roads. On Main road network of 1100. About 12,000 kilometers. And all those cases were investigated by the. An Accident Investigation teams between. 90 six, 2010 and three in Finland we have had such kind of systems in. 1968 however, we. Please qualify osorio.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
We disqualify some. Caseys. 55%. Those cases, those fatalities. We smell. Caused by some. Ha. Dangerous behavior. Like alcohol exceeding actual speed limit. Mark of safety belt use suicides. Side effect of illnesses. And lack of valid driving license. And then we had some 440 crashes. And. 858 vehicles

[174.0s - 203.0s]
I speak about meeting accidents. I define it also little bit late. Becaused we have excluded from the front accidents overtaking accidents. Most cases we had in the final. Sample. Passenger car passenger car accidents, where some 56% and as a car heavy vehicles. Almost 40% deal relics in single vehicle accidents were very low. Number of them was very low becausw almost all seeing vehicle accidents where. Caused by speeding alcohol. Another while other violence or. Such kind of. Operations which are not. In which which are not. In normal. Doesn't belong to the normal behavior.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So at the meeting, accidents. There were two types of of meeting accidents. FirstGroup was that the case that the car? Only was carried to the opposite Lane. From some reason. Yeah. Driver. Perhaps? At a black moment or or or. Aura. 4 Four frozen S or automatic. And most of these cases where. Head on accidents 8098% and they took place on drive. Or on wet Rd surface. And the other. A type was typical. Laust driving control. An events. App. And half of them took place on slippery or icy Rd. Surface. And the cause of the rotation. Which which was quite common. That hit on. Side impacts where some 5050. So. Two typically typical different types of. Of accidents.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And what weather injury mean? Now we have taken only only those accidents which took place on the speeds of 80 kilometers per hour and. We have deep different mechanisms. OK, doesn't work. Impact in the beginning. It means that the human body. Is too weak? So. Impact yourself or or two. Storm generation or some other reason? Post that that that that is the 2nd pillar. Impact and penetration. It means that both the human body and the vehicle. Are too weak. And then the third loss. Repealer discribes most mostly the case is between passenger car and heavier.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Add. And the fact that it is by 40 regions OK. Finnish people. They are very similar to the others and when. Their head and chest. They are weaker than other pretty body regions as we have. Also found in another resource is done everywhere in the world.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
What quite interesting question is Delta V? And the severity consequences of. The occupants now we have larger sample because the number of occupants is is almost 600 because we don't have. Delta V calculations or estimations or accidents. And we can see that when. That Delta we is quite low let's say. 3040 kilometres per hour. Greater part. Are are no injuries and the others are injuries no no. But when the speed we increase is very quick when speed. Change sent more than 6070 kilometers, number of fatalities increases. And of course we have also very high Delta V's. Those on the right side means. At Caseys between passenger car every vehicle 'cause. Quest happened so. Yeah, heavy vehicle takes there. There's more than one. Backwards.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And here we have. Taking that distribution after death of ease and we can find in the middle. The crazies. If a passenger calls. In accidents between 222 passenger cars. In in the left side. There are drivers of. Of heavy vehicles. And. On the right side. Yeah. Occupants have. Passenger cars, which have crashed with heavy bagels. At. It's quite. Typical that crashes, so sudden that the driver. Is not able to do anything before the crash. He can't reduce the speed, or perhaps sometimes a little bit. And therefore Delta V values they are. Probably. High almost the same. The speed. Was. Before the crash. Only only very seldom they are able to reduce speed.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And we also take care about the safety restaurants. What was that? The influence of knowledge here, back saved. 25%. And then we estimated that the possible influence of ESP if. The vehicles had such. The influence would have been some 15% quite a lot. And also the driver lateness system would have been some some 50 percent 15%. And. Resolve that that the newer car models. Are much safer. Compared to their. Predictors. As we also have here today here. In previous session.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And some conclusions. We can do some some activities to to reduce. The. Gracius and the essential. Element or. Miss Ellis. His speed. And therefore. Preventing accidents crashes. From taxi passes with a median barrier is 1 one way. It's nowadays also quite common way in Finland and specially in Sweden. And another way is to prevent or reduce the severity of intersection accidents. It's around calls. App. Speed is very important we. Should have. Plan the whole. Oh or renew that speed limit system. At. And in any case, we should limit the maximum speed, high speed and speeding. For example, using speed limiters or or. Support more. Using automatic speed adoption systems. As well, the road maintenance is important. Weather conditions are are difficult to predict nowadays. Better and better if we can do it. And then we should continue research work. And and try to. Did you allow both the primary and and secondary safety? Systems thank you. Thank you very much for your presentation. It's based on the results of the vast activities of Accident Investigation Team Sander. So is it moderated, moderated? I take the privilege of the first question again. So. Because I know that these investigation teams are doing excellent job in better. Understanding of exigent circumstances, I am wondering if these teams are called to every accident or. If there is some selection of certain types of accidents or how to running nowadays we we are able to do took over the team to almost reach it said. Fatal accident a car accident. But in some cases it takes time so much that the situation is, let's say, over. And they have to investigate. Investigating the accident. Based on the Marks and other information on the accident site, but. In any case, they they interview there there. Additional victims and a. The research all investigate all the all the details. With the. Which are possible? And possibly behind the accident. So sometimes it takes weeks to to find all those persons with RR. Suitable for for interviews in relevant persons for four. Clarifying the background so that accidents but they try to do. And try to investigate or or cases. And maybe I miss you saw the picture for the additional question. So just in the previous session, it was mentioned that Germany is the problem to provide. Disaggregated data for care because of the protection of personal information and how it's solved by such a sensitive cases. So you are actually the spot of the accident, and I understood on your demo from your demonstration from your presentation that you are using this data for the research proposal. It's it's allowed to use for research. It's not allowed to use those. Those investigation investigation results, for example 444. 4 four court. And the the the original purpose of this kind of work was to find. At. Find the backgrounds. Accidents not guilty parties or or races. So that you are so now is the floor for you, for your questions, Sir, for your comments. Yes, please, but maybe the microphone because of recording. My name is Jeff, so my question is you talk about speed limits and my question is do you think about a gradual speed limit or roads or what kind of speed limits you are talking about seeing about? Nowadays on rural Rose roads we have mostly 80 kilometers per hour. If you want and. Some some part of. Most important roles we have even 100. And motivate 120 by the winter time we reduce the speeds speed limits. 280 kilometers per hour and on motorways 100 kilometers per hour. I, as far as I said. 70 kilometers 6070 kilometers. Seems to be quite. Dangerous. For human body. So it means that if we try to to save. Lives. So. 100 hundred 2000 thirty. Is 2 too high? What is the public acceptance for such an approach like that now to reduce to 6070? At. At. I. I think 6070. Can be can be. Too low. Becausw in any case. Using speed limit. It takes time because it's very difficult for ordinary people to understand that they can't drive more than 60 kilometers per hour on rural roads. So I think that when we are are are. Speaking cream so it may may change the the. The opinions of ordinary people as well so that they. They were, they would be more. And they they would. Easier. Except also lower speed limit as has happened on urban areas, port is absolutely accepted even 30. In certain areas. And also those 20 kilometre. OK so very difficult to follow. 20 kilometers per hour science but. Opinions against. Lower speed limits in urban areas. I think we have. We have one. Thank you very much. I think that the statement about speed limit is a good final point behind their presentation. Thank you very much.
