We may we may found the three main scenarios in the first one we have a document collection that is expressed by using only one language, but we won't make the users are able to perform queries in any kind of languages. In the second scenario, Web document collections containing documents that are expressed in multiple languages. The context of each concept that in our case consists in the concept that were connected to the USI to the rise of each of each annotation. The first one is only only uses the translation of the query terms. That is also the translation used as, so it is also the configuration used as a baseline for measuring the effectiveness of the system and that consistent in translating the query by using public machine translation services. So we, we looked for exact match of the terms of the query in India ontology and then we performed also further evaluation in which only the queries containing at least one term that can be matched with ontology with the ontology concepts have been considered for a travel causing this way we wanted to measure how the ontologies are able to cover the terms containing queries and in documents and also to verify. The collection that has been used containing the more or less 3013 thousands of multilingual documents in which each where each document contained information expressed by using several languages. Then we use the 14 queries in our evaluation. Of the portal that implements this, this system, and they've been selected by the domain experts in order to avoid queries that were very similar and also two title covers many topics as possible. In the first class is about model dependent approaches, in which both the translations of the queries and the retrieval of documents that are integrated in the same framework, while in the second model that our model independent approaches the translations and directivity documents are treated. We've seen that the use of such of such. Information leads to an improvement of this system. This system is to improve the effectiveness of the automatic annotation component in order to fill this gap between the user only automatic rotation and the manual one and also. The main challenges of this topic is about the out of vocabulary issue that basically the same the same challenges concerning the machine translation stop picking which if we don't have dictionaries that are rich enough to cover as much as possible the different languages we are not able to provide effective translations or queries. In this work, we focused more on the last two topics we want to use a domain information for reaching representation of the document. And also we want to use such information for providing more structure representation of the information. OK, our scenario that is strongly related to the project in which this work has been as be done is related to the use case of the agricultural domain, and we consider the two main resources, Agra, vocal and organ, and organically want ologist.