[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon to everybody. My name is Mount Angoni. I'm a postdoc at from the simple Kessler and today we present our work that has been done in the context of an European project and it's about the use of semantic and domain based information in cost language information retrieval systems.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So I would start with a bit of background of background about the topic. Consider cross language information retrieval. We may we may found the three main scenarios in the first one we have a document collection that is expressed by using only one language, but we won't make the users are able to perform queries in any kind of languages. In the second scenario, Web document collections containing documents that are expressed in multiple languages. While in the third scenario we have documents that contain that have a mixed language content, or the information, because for example we may have documents containing abstracts in English, Spanish and other languages. And obviously the goal is to be able to find to retrieve all documents in dependently by the language that is used for querying the system.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And if we have looked on the state of the art of their customer information system, we may classify all works in two main strategies. In the first class is about model dependent approaches, in which both the translations of the queries and the retrieval of documents that are integrated in the same framework, while in the second model that our model independent approaches the translations and directivity documents are treated. In a separated process, the main difference is that in the model independent approaches we have that the result of the translation process is taken as it is, and then we apply monolingual information retrieval techniques for attaining the document, while in the model dependent approaches who have that, the uncertainty that is connected with the translation of the term, because for example, if you translate the term of a query in another language, you may have different results. This uncertainty is propagated also in the electoral document, so the ranks are affected by this this thing.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The main challenges of this topic is about the out of vocabulary issue that basically the same the same challenges concerning the machine translation stop picking which if we don't have dictionaries that are rich enough to cover as much as possible the different languages we are not able to provide effective translations or queries. While the second challenge that is more related with semantic web environment is to have the possibility of providing structure and formation of the documents by using a known issue. Annotation and semantic multilingual data.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
In this work, we focused more on the last two topics we want to use a domain information for reaching representation of the document. And also we want to use such information for providing more structure representation of the information. Indeed, we don't focus on how to improve the machine translation service because we don't want to provide the new machine translation service machine translation approach.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, our scenario that is strongly related to the project in which this work has been as be done is related to the use case of the agricultural domain, and we consider the two main resources, Agra, vocal and organ, and organically want ologist. The ontology is the first one is a huge thesaurus contain concerning the agricultural domain that covers a very lot of topic, while the second ontology is ontology. Developing the context of the project and is more focused on the. Organic agricultural topic. Our system is composed by three main components. The first one that is able to annotate the document with with semantic information that we have the index component and then the possibility of retrieving the. Obviously the the documents.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So how the rotation process is is done in the first step.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Given an exit is also run on top.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
We extract the set of the concepts containing in defining entology and we stuck the set of the multilingual labor.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Also used for this cabins concept, this multilingual labels are indexed in several indexes, one for each different language. When these such indexes.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The idea was that are using the second step when we need to annotate the document, so the content of the document is used as query on these indexes in.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Only on the index is related to the languages containing in the containing and document how we are able to identify such languages. If we are lucky, we have the each. We help each field of the document annotated with the language code, but if not that is the more general case we have to use a language identifier for detecting such languages and then to perform the queries on on these indexes. Once the queries have been performed on the indexes, we have a set of ranks containing. A set of your eyes of the con.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
That are the most candidate ones for annotating the document and in in a. In a further step we tightened we identify which are the concepts that have exact matches in the document content and we used the UI's of such concept for annotating the doc.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Points.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
In this in this table I wanted to provide some statistics containing concerning the annotations of the document and also related to the to the ontology. We have Diego work deserves that that that has a huge number. Of course, after more than 32 thousands we didn't perform any manual annotation of the document. By using this this House, but we provided more than 133 thousands of automatic annotation while concerning the organically grown teologi we have a. Is more number of concept, but during the entire project, not just for the work of this paper. So in the period of almost three years the domain access provided more than 27 thousands of manual annotations of the resources that are used in the portal that have been developed. And then we also performed a manual and automatic annotation stepping which more than 16 thousands of annotations have been provided and used for notating the document.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So used in the collection, so after the annotation process we index it the document so each the text of each document and then also the annotations have been extracted and for each annotation we started from the ontology. The context of each concept that in our case consists in the concept that were connected to the USI to the rise of each of each annotation. Then such concepts. For example the parent. All the concepts have been exceed that together with the document with the weight that is obviously smaller with respect to the actual annotation, so the final structure of each record in the index was composed by the tech.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
By the text of the document and then by the set of your eyes with the the set of your eyes containing the context of each of each annotation.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Concerning the travel, the proposed system provide three different configurations. The first one is only only uses the translation of the query terms. That is also the translation used as, so it is also the configuration used as a baseline for measuring the effectiveness of the system and that consistent in translating the query by using public machine translation services. In particular, we that we've done the test by using both the Google. And Microsoft Bing Translator translations services. Just being politically correct with respect to to both of them. Then we were the 2nd second configuration which the queries have been expanded with. The rise of the concept of the ontology and expansion has been has been done in the same way. With which we have annotated document. So we, we looked for exact match of the terms of the query in India ontology and then we performed also further evaluation in which only the queries containing at least one term that can be matched with ontology with the ontology concepts have been considered for a travel causing this way we wanted to measure how the ontologies are able to cover the terms containing queries and in documents and also to verify. Which was the overfitting of the document collection with respect to two.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Ontologies. So this is up over well level evaluation. The collection that has been used containing the more or less 3013 thousands of multilingual documents in which each where each document contained information expressed by using several languages. So we didn't have any monolingual document. Then we use the 14 queries in our evaluation. These queries have been selected from Microsoft at the log. Of the portal that implements this, this system, and they've been selected by the domain experts in order to avoid queries that were very similar and also two title covers many topics as possible. Our goal standard who's build manually by domain experts and we provide some we measured effecting the effectiveness of this system by using the more well known metrics of the information retrieval field.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So the is we have now some some results. The first one we have the use by using only the baseline. So in this case queries have been translated by using the Google Translate or Microsoft being translation services. Here we put just the average of the of the baseline, but in the paper you will find the details by using only one of them and also the performance of. Training on each language and hear the interesting number to see is the recall of the system. 'cause it means that they provided the use of these public translation services. Me gives the opportunity to have the possibility of retrieving higher number high number of documents. So the issue concerning the out of vocabulary terms that I that I explained early is very limited in this in this case.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
In the first experiment, we consider the only manual and so. So all only the field containing automatic annotations and here we we registered. Limited improvement of engine of the system and in particular on the indie position at 10, but we may see that the value improvement of the record is very limited. It's it means that the users of the recall, in our case, in this or the use of the users of ontology in our case, didn't lead to significant results. So the coverage of the domain was enough just using the. The baseline services.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
In the second experiment, we consider also demand annotation. Here. Obviously it is trivial that we obtained an improvement of the results, but it is important to light that the gap of improvement does not justify the effort that is needed for updating the document becausw in a in a small small collection that we used, we needed almost three years for providing as a set of annotations manually validated that just give us. A 3% of improvement with respect to the user or automatic component, and we think that this is an important insight for for people that would like to start on working on this on the semantic language function table system. But just to be sure that the impact of the manual annotation is limited.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
We tried to boost the manual feed the field containing the mana rotation in order to see if the performances increases, but surprisingly for the position at 10 we obtain a decrease of the effectiveness of the system.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
In a in the last evaluation we tried to. To measure the effect, the effectiveness of the system by applying by providing. So by performing queries containing only terms that have a match with the ontology concept, and in this case beside the poor results that we obtain in the precision, that means that the overfitting of the ontology with expected to the document collection wasn't high. So devalued by evaluation of the of the of the system can be considered good. In general we may see how the ontology services is able to cover the languages. Indeed, for the 12 languages that was that were used, not by using only the single ontologies, we're not able to cover all of them, and also we are not able to cover all queries. So this means that even if it seems that by using domain based information for trying to improve the effectiveness of the system, it is not enough to use them, but it is. It is needed to use to make some effort for providing very high quality. Semantic resources for trying to really improve the quality of the system.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So in the conclusion, OK, we were just that. We've seen that the use of such of such. Information leads to an improvement of this system. Obviously was the goal of the paper, but we find that it is needed to evaluate the tradeoff that is needed for. In this stuff between the F4 that is needed for manual testing the document and also the improvement of the effect of the effectiveness that we obtain. Indeed, the first point of our future work are concerning. This system is to improve the effectiveness of the automatic annotation component in order to fill this gap between the user only automatic rotation and the manual one and also. More long term goal was to provide an component that is able to. To answer to more complex to more complex queries, if you will have time and nothing to do in the in the future, you can try to use the organic admit portal that implements the search engine that we have developed and also on the organic lingua website. You may find the old data that we used for these experiments, the queries, the gold standard and everything. OK, so. Killing it.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
It's.
