Pictures about what we can do in optimization in the smart grid area. I prepare picture about or summary about which kind of optimization problems we can handle in small gates, and as you will see, there are a lot of challenges and opportunities for people working in the optimization area. First, I will give you some introduction about the power grids. So what's the difference between? So this is the first aspect we will. This is a new class of problems about pricing. Then we will tackle the distribution aspect, which kind of optimization problem we will have in distribution. The maximized efficiency means that reduce the cost to produce, to deliver and consume the electricity. The cost of the network. Den Transmission, distribution, pricing and then customer management and I will show you the main important problem in each class for each part of the network, OK? Capital cost ramping time gas emission. You have more flexibility on the source. You have local generation, so the more suitable local sources are wind, solar, biomass or geothermal type of plants and you have more reliability. OK, So what are the problems in generation optimization? There are a lot of engineering design problems in generation. OK you have a lot of localization problem, location problems, placement where you will place your localized. Generators, you will localize the storing devices, the wind turbines, etc. Hardware optimal placement of units. So you have a set of geographical area you have set of units to localize or to place. The wind resource variation from historical data, operating and maintenance costs you have to deal with the maintenance costs, the operating costs. At large power plants, for instance, in France we have a lot of nuclear power plants. We have 6% of power loss means that pie or it's 25 billion per year of dollars energy loss. In a traditional network, is really distributed over a very large geographical area, so we have huge networks and as you know the energy demand is. The problem is you have given time or is and can be short term long term one day, one week, one year. OK, you have the demon prediction. From where you prove this energy, this is very popular important problem. This part of the network is what we call the planning network evolution. Monte Carlo for instance simulation and a lot of objective. You have uniform price or in the best case you have what we call tired or peak load pricing. It means that you will have the price for the next day. It means that the exact price for each pair, or this calculated in real time. And this answer only at the beginning of each. Yaqui of problems and of course lots of constraints about power generation and lot of objective. Is GNU represents a new class of optimization problems in this area, and the input of course you have the subscribers preferences, you have the energy consumption patterns and you have the energy providers. OK, this is what we call the leader and the follower in the leader. Those are very complex optimization problems. They can be formulated as what we call Stackelberg games. Very costly to store energy. Another thing, the flexibility for some plants type of land, the energy production is very hard to change. So flexibility is very limited for some type of plans. Yeah, electricity generation must match consumer demand every minute is what we call the power flow equation. The ratio between the average demand and the pig demon they would like to have this pattern very flat because the cost of the network is correlated with the peak demand. With smart meters OK. To our little customers that want to give customers the ability to choose valuable consumer patterns depending on the price. So those are very large scale problems. You have a lot of dynamic optimization problems dealing with this real time operational problems, multiple music planning and optimization, and a certainty is there everywhere, everywhere. High performance computing will be there for sure and machine learning. Smart Grid will be connected to logistics transportation systems. So how you do some smart charging of the electric vehicles smart grids can be connected also to cloud computing systems. And then we will have minimum transmission of power to distant consumers, so the network will be more decentralized. All the data about the consumption in anywhere. And of course, the generation will be flexible and controllable. Let's say small smart grid which can be disconnected from the grid. So the market can connect and disconnect from the grid. To enable it to operate in both grid connected to island mode, we are autonomous. Some relaxation techniques as DP, agile organization, dynamic programming, Monte Carlo search, ADP, approximate dynamic programming. What I mean by multi periodic what I mean is that you have multiple time periods if you have time or is on so it can be short term, medium term or long term. For instance the generation problem, you can solve it for time orizon of one year, one week, one day. It can be a problem. In the synergy project that a lot of opportunities, because many problems you have to simulate the system. And of course machine learning is there because you have to predict, for instance, this is very.