Ties, Minton and optimal auction design. So I'll do four for one special. One paper, the main topic of this talk is about optimal auction design for sponsored search advertisement, but I will have to 1st talk about the equilibrium in this auction because how could we talk about anything optimal if you don't know how people behave? So you have the same profit for any of the clicks, so that's what we're assuming here. And they will generally be less than the true values, and this formula tells us exactly how much less. This equilibrium is unique, so there are no other equilibrium and gets better, Yep. Their total revenues of the auction ear in this auction are exactly the same as in our vision mechanism. Remember that mechanism that I mentioned that would match am goods, 2K buyers. Tinkering is important, so. Proof, but now I'll talk about the optimal mechanism. So what this theorem says is that there's a formula. So basically we assume that the values of bidders, the values of bidders per click are drawn from a distribution with PDF function F of B and we assume that function is known. That's it. When we go from zero reserve price to optimal reserve price would very much depend on the number of bidders. Because reserve price directly affect only to get the bottom usually maybe two bottom guys. So let me start with humorous history of market design. Fundamentally, extremely interesting and fundamentally new is happening with auctions between the times of Babylon and the second half of the 20th century. Let's say I I'm trying to buy a cow. Part of the reason that I spent so much time telling you about this failure. So so this is not good. So again, markets are really smart, at least sometimes. I told the market so smart it's American Medical Association, but later on they changed it up to be favorable for the students, partly due to antitrust concerns. So you see that overtime mechanism design moves from being primary metaphor. Should he work for Google? But if advertiser one advertiser two are above reserve price with probability very close to one. We increase the reserve price with all the bids. Back in there in the last few decades, mechanism design really becomes a tool that shapes markets as opposed to just a metaphor that describes what's going on in the markets. So, for example, FCC conduct spectrum auctions auctions are actually designed by economists. So now mechanism design is actually.