[0.0s - 29.0s]
Ties, Minton and optimal auction design. So, for the purposes of your talk, good. If you just forget almost everything that that Jason said, I told you how inadequate GSP is. An I'll tell have greater days and it doesn't even necessarily mean that I disagree with Jason is just that, you know, when you study, how horses travel in space, when you throw them out of a cannon. The first thing to do is to assume that the. Horse is a sphere and it may not be necessarily the best assumption, but it is fairly decent assumption if you're interested. What happens with a horse if you throw it at 200 mph? So I'm going to make a lot of assumptions along those lines and actually prove theorems about that. And Jason's point is well taken that not all horses are spherical, but bear with me.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So I'll do four for one special. I will talk about four different closely related papers about sponsored search. All of them one way or the other about GSP auction. One paper, the main topic of this talk is about optimal auction design for sponsored search advertisement, but I will have to 1st talk about the equilibrium in this auction because how could we talk about anything optimal if you don't know how people behave? So I'll talk about the different paper first. That actually describes what would happen in equilibrium. I will also talk about another paper that shows that myopic bidders could actually converge to this equilibrium under certain assumptions, and perhaps I'll talk a little bit about how to incorporate user experience into those auctions.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
But before all that, let me just entertain you a little bit and I think entertainment is important because there's a sort of essential economic substance in this entertainment. So let me start with humorous history of market design. It actually starts in 5th century BC and it was described by Herodotus, the first economist, sorry, the first historian. So he describes wife or wife. Auctions in Babylon and those actions were in fact quite quite interesting. For those of you who never been to ancient Babylon, they have a different value system. They believe that they believed in equality. They believed in redistribution. They believe that beauty was distributed unevenly, and they wanted to do something to equalize it. So they have a fairly complicated procedure upon reaching. Marital age all the females of the city where sort of socialized and auctioned off and they would start out with the most beautiful ones and they would sell them for good minor once they accumulate some revenue from those sales so they would be sold. Not in the slavery. They will be solved into marriage, which perhaps at the time was similar. Or maybe not. We don't know. So then they would accumulate certain amount of revenues and then the city would say, oh, now we have some very unfortunate. Brides to be, so they will have a dowry. So the pricing that auction could be positive or negative and whether the poor man of the city would actually buy them for a negative price, they would get a dowry. Then they would run out of funds, will start auctioning off some more beautiful as you can see it's a complicated auction. In fact here that is did fail to describe the equilibrium of that auction. He also failed to describe exactly how the rules were specified. So this is the first instance of. Auctions are that I know today. Sounds pretty barbaric, but in fact here are those describes it as one of the wisest traditions of Babylon. He was a closet socialist, so then pretty much not much happens between 5th century BC and second half of the 20th century. Not that nobody runs auctions. People do. People sell all kinds of things. In Holland they sell, they have flower auctions. In England they have an English auction. Surprise, surprise. And in Japan, perhaps they have Japanese auction, but maybe someone just made up the names that all names of common auction formats, but really nothing. Fundamentally, extremely interesting and fundamentally new is happening with auctions between the times of Babylon and the second half of the 20th century. Then in the second half of the 20th century. People get interested in market design and by people actually mean people are different. People who get interested in it simultaneously and quite independently, and they don't even know at the time that the things that they're thinking about at all related. There's a classic paper by GAIL and Shapley, 1962, and of course neither of those two guys are economists. One of them, I believe, is a mathematician and the other one is probably a computer scientist. I'm not sure. So they asked a purely theoretical esoteric question. Let's say what if you have a group of men and each man have preferences over. Every woman in his community, and let's say the same is true for every woman. It's completely symmetric. It's no longer. Sex is the way it was in Babylon. This is the 60s. So. Say and each woman completely symmetric, like his preferences, overall, ma'am, so it's like, well, this is a very well defined mathematical object. This is standard so called marriage problem matching problem and the question is so how do we match? Man and woman. Given that we know all the preferences already, what would be the right thing to do so clearly serve intuitively? You know that if Jane things that George is there, the most wonderful, caring, beautiful man in the wall, then if George feels the same way about Jane, well, probably adjourned. George and Jane should be matched to each other. So if. That that that that would be easier. But what if George really think that N is the most beautiful, caring, wonderful future mother for his children? But an actual doesn't think this way should think that George is a nice guy and she likes Peter, but Jennifer is in love with George and so on and so forth, right? So how do you aggregate this information? You have rankings you want to fill them in the computer program and that you want that computer program to spit out the match. So again, on Shuffle actually nailed that question. It's OK, the exist. So first of all, the notion of a match that we're looking for is stability and stability. The way they defined it is that if George is matched with J. There's no way George could find someone else who's matched not to him, but to someone else whom he likes better than his partner. So that that other person also like him better than better than she likes her partner. So whenever there are two people who say, you know what I want to dump my partner, I want to be with you that other person says, yeah me too. That's not a stable match. That's how Galen sharply defined it. So obviously it's not clear if such a beast exists. Well, it does. There's a theorem that says it always exists. That's nice. It means that we could, in theory, live in society without divorce if people's preferences don't change. It's also interesting that they come up with a beautiful. Turns out their menu stable matches generically, so they come up with a beautiful algorithm called deferred acceptance algorithm. I suspect that most people in this room probably know it, but maybe not so they come up with a beautiful algorithm deferred acceptance algorithm where you can actually arrive to a stable match, and it turns out that stable matches wonderful property that. There is a male optimal stable match and that would be a stable match that out of all stable matches would be absolutely the best one for all the men at the same time. It would also happen to have a property that would be absolutely the worst for all the females at the same time, but it wouldn't be that bad because still stable. None of the females or males can do better than that by so free matching. So there exists one stable match that's best for all men at the same time. So man, I can open the same camp there if this is the best table match for me. It's also the best table match for you. Kind of interesting. And of course it's completely symmetric. There exists another stable match that's the best females right? So at that time 1962 this is pure theory, of course. So there's a reason why I told you this story first. It's a cool story. Second is one of the first papers on marketplace design. The way I see it, and 3rd, it's actually quite similar to auction for Internet advertisement. In fact, it's almost mathematically isomorphic. This is kind of weird how everything in nature is interrelated, or at least everything in the comics is. So the way the reason that it's almost mathematically isomorphic is that you have an advertisers. You have K. Positions for the ads sounds a little bit like matching problem. Well that difference is right. Money change hands in this problem, but that kind of perhaps could easily be adjusted. Perhaps we can modify the model and have money in it and use the same notion of stable match. It turns out yes, it actually doesn't work this way. This is very related. So that at almost the same time, completely independently in economist we career. Comes up with a famous Vickrey auction, which is basically a way to allocate when you have M objects, very different objects and K buyers, and each buyer knows what his value for each set of objects, so that's a very complicated problem. Right, because it's very combinatorial in nature, it could be that I want, you know, let's say a factor is being liquidated, so I want to buy just the parking lot of that factor. I don't need anything else, someone else wants to buy. Both factory Anna Parking Lot, but doesn't want the warehouse and so on and so forth. And they have values for each of those combinations of objects, so we could ask the question how to allocate it and comes up with the mechanism. He also nails this problem so he actually shows that there is a. For moment medical mechanisms that would elicit preferences from buyers, buyers would set preferences for each set of objects. Then we will allocate those objects efficiently. So it's very remarkable results that in fact not only it's possible to do that. But it's also possible to design A mechanism where none of the buyers would want to misrepresent his preferences, where you would never want to lie. You would never want to say, oh, I value this at $20, when in reality valued at 100, and you're just trying to get a bargain so weaker it shows that there exists a mechanism. Where you can do it in full generality with empires K objects, complicated preferences of buyers over sets of objects, so a classic example of that mechanism, very simple one is called Vickrey auction, which is also called second price auction, so that one is very simple and it's very easy to see how you can elicit information truthfully from buyers in the second price auction. Let's say I'm buying an object and let's say the rules of the game are simple. I don't pay my bills. I pay a bit of a person. Who is the second highest bidder if I win the object so it's easy to see that there is no reason to game the system and this mechanism of the second price auction, also called Vickery auction hyy it's very easy to see, right? Let's say I I'm trying to buy a cow. I value that cost $500. Should I bid $500 for this cow in a second price auction? Well, let's see what happens if I don't. If I bid $550. I can end up paying more for that cow that I value. Let's say the second highest bidder is 405 hundred $30. I bid 550 end up paying 534 account that I only valued at 500. So no, I don't want to be more than my value. How about bidding less than my value? That's very easy to convince yourself. You don't want to pay less than your value in the second price auction Big Y? Well, let's I'm building $480 for the account that I valued at 500. Well, if the second highest bidders say 450, I'm going to get a call for 4:50. If I would have been building $500, I would still get a count of 450, right? The second has been doesn't change. So yeah, no problem. I can beat $500 if the second has bills for 50. No reason to be 470. How bad is the second highest bid is happened with four 90? I bid for 70. Well then I really regret my bid because I lost the cow. I could have bought it. For 490, but I didn't get to do it becausw I was bidding too little, so it's a dominant strategy to be the true value in the Vickrey auction. So there's no reason to strategize. It's a beautifully simple mechanism, beautifully effective, so here's an interesting historical note. Part of the reason that I spent so much time telling you about this failure. Ancient history is that there's a very interesting story there that is again going to be paralleled in the world of Internet advertisement, and that is victory. In fact, did not invent the. Second price auction. He thought he did. In fact everybody else thought he did, but he didn't. In fact, it was invented. The previous time in the 19th century, for all I know, it probably was invented in Babylon too, but we don't know that, but it certainly was invented in the 19th century by sellers of stamps and their 19th century stamp. Advertisement Will say, well, you can send. Send us a. Your bid for the stamp by Mail and R. Vivial charge you will act as your actual agent. The auction House will act as your agent, so it's the first instance of an outer bit there 19 century so our auction house would act as your end agent, so it's actually so we'll pretend that system English auction where you basically keep bidding higher and higher than other people, right? But what we will do, we'll start opening all bids and will start bidding on your behalf, as if everybody is in the room and assume for everybody is just crying out higher and higher bids until everybody drops out. But in fact nobody will be in the room, will just open everybody's bid. If there are only two bids, one is $10, the other is $8.00. Then what we will do, we'll start mentally crying out bids 678. And of course both bidders will be willing to go all the way up to 8 at $8.00. At 8:50, the guy with a dollar value will drop out, so $10 bid will win at basically $8.00. So that's how they would. That's how they invented second. Price auction was essentially an instance of Ascension ought to be there of some kind, so it's interesting that sort of economic agents are really smart. They invent things for which people will get Nobel Prizes. We got Noble prize for inventing Vickery auction. Also, to be sure, we corruption is much more general. He also covered the case with m'kay with M objects, which is much more complicated. So the same actually happens with GAIL and Shapley. They thought that they invented brilliant deferred acceptance algorithms, a classic paper. It turns out they didn't invent it. It turns out that American Medical Association was running a residency match in match between hospitals and fresh graduates of medical schools for residency programs for years and years before the 60s. And it's cumbersome because very important for each resident. For each medical students to find the residences lot. And it's very important for each hospital to find residents. And it has to be the answer of. You know one has to somehow solve this coordination problem so American Medical Association came out and said look, we will help to solve this problem will create the match will let each student to rank hospitals. Each hospital will rank student gallon shop. Didn't know about any of that. They come up with a theoretically and will have certain rules how we will match it. And doctors designed it, not computer scientists, not economists. Doctors dead and they designed that mechanisms. Oh. That is a problem. You know we match that hospital to the student, but then, like a week later, the student found another hospital that likes that student more and vice versa. So in modern language, in the language of Galaxy, Tablet was not stable. So so this is not good. So let's change the rules a little bit maybe. So this wouldn't happen again and they kept changing rules. So the amazing thing is that they changed the rules up to a point where they actually arrived to them really complicated. Fairly complicated mechanism that was actually mathematically isomorphic to the famous deferred acceptance algorithm of Gallant Chaplin. And that was years before 1962. Of course, they didn't know the notion of stability, they were just trying to work out the system that would work, and so they did, right? So again, markets are really smart, at least sometimes. But sometimes markets take a long time to wise up. The one is favorable for the hospitals of favorable for the securities hospitals. I told the market so smart it's American Medical Association, but later on they changed it up to be favorable for the students, partly due to antitrust concerns. So you see that overtime mechanism design moves from being primary metaphor. Describing market to tool that shapes them. So actually you haven't seen it yet, but you will see it on the next slide right? So we start out with people just reasoning about markets theoretically. I just think well, it's a metaphor of what's happening in reality to some extent. And you know, it's very easy to think about very deferred acceptance algorithm is just a metaphor of how people find the mates. So of course you know as a human being who is looking for a wife, I certainly wouldn't be thinking of that process as deferred acceptance algorithm, but as a social scientist I would say, well, maybe the outcomes would be fairly similar to what deferred acceptance algorithm would yield, right? So similarly worker who negotiates with a few employers. For humans and agonizing choice, should he work for Microsoft? Should he work for Yahoo? Should he work for Google? Well for social scientists while he's running a second price auction, right? He goes to one place. They make him an offer. He goes to another one. They match. So that's an auction, right?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So so far we're at the stage where it's a metaphor, but. Back in there in the last few decades, mechanism design really becomes a tool that shapes markets as opposed to just a metaphor that describes what's going on in the markets. So, for example, FCC conduct spectrum auctions auctions are actually designed by economists. It's a complicated, incredibly complicated auctions. Many billions of dollars worth of spectrum assault through those auctions, very complicated combinatorial environment, so. So now mechanism design is actually. Sort of shapes the reality of the markets. Similarly, medical residency match. Was actually designed so even though doctors got most of the things right, there actually a bunch of practical issues that come up that need to need to be addressed, in particular because some of the doctors are now married. To another doctor, which makes a match much more complicated, because now you don't match one to one, right? So some of those issues were addressed, and again, that market was redesigned again scientifically and now doctors and hospitals are actually matched through centralized mechanism that again run by a computer program. So I think we live in this very exciting world where basically. VUVS society use more and more formalized mechanisms. Right mechanisms actually run on a computer and computer scientists. You know that whenever something is wrong on the computer that has something to do with you. So, so I think that's new data that's being generated by those mechanisms, and once there is a sort of mechanism for spherical horses, there are many, many opportunities to start tweaking different things in that mechanism using machine learning and to make it a little bit.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Or a lot better. But so far we're still with spherical courses. So I think this.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
I pretty much repeats what I already said, so now let me go to Internet options so I will talk. Let me describe the most stylized, most basic model of the auction using which Internet advertisement is solved. So I'm eating lots and lots of details and I do it on purpose. So let's say user searches for word car insurance on Yahoo. This is what you'll see. You'll see probably about four ads. What we call in the North and you will see a bunch of ads in the East and under the North you will see what we call organic searches. Also those searchers out there than not for sale. So. It's OK as you can see for highly commercial term like car insurance, ad results are incredibly relevant right there. Actually, as good as organic search results, you get a bunch of insurance companies here. We gotta bunch of insurance companies here, so actually good theoretical reasons why. Sponsored search results may be more relevant than organic search results for highly commercial searches, but I'm not going to talk about it right now, but we can talk about it after doing the break, but they are quite relevant as you can see on this slide if something is less commercial item to build us relevant.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So here's how it works from the advertiser side. So here I'm using a snapshot from the past, something that actually no longer exists. Yahoo bid two that used to show the bids of every advertiser. So every advertiser in the past just a few years ago was able to log in and see what were his competitors bidding, and Yahoo used to arrange ads according to the bid, and then they use generalized second price auction, meaning that. GEICO, let's be $10.49. Will be paying the second highest bidder. 1048 + 1 Seven, so they will pay 1049, then save on car insurance that's insurance, then progressive will pay not 1048, which is the bid, but $9.16, which is basically the higher second third highest bid plus one page, and so on and so forth. So you see how it gets much cheaper real fast once you go to the fifth listing. That they're building 899, but they're only paying 851 and so on and so forth, so this is a real snapshot of the data. So for the purpose of this talk, I will assume that every advertiser has the same quality and the same clickability, so quality is how good of a user experience does this add, deliver and click abilities? How likely are users to click on those ads? So for the purposes of this talk, I will assume that advertisers do not differ on clickability and equality. So in fact this is very unfair assumption. To make one talking to this audience 'cause this is where machine learning comes in, how do you estimate clickability of an ad? How do you estimate quality of an ad so the two large extent machine learning problems? But I will abstract from that. And by the way, for keyword like car insurance, advertisers would tend to have very similar click abilities and qualities. For other keywords, maybe big diff.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
But for now we will just assume that there are no differences. So now let me give you a little bit more history. So. Originally are. Internet sponsored search advertisement was essentially invented by small company. Then go to, then it was remained the Overture. Now it's part of Yahoo. So they introduced. I have several lanterns used first. Paper, click auctions and that was a huge auction and that was a huge innovation at the time. At that time, all the ads were sort of solved with guaranteed contracts. They were banner ads or content driven. So go to had a brilliant innovation. There are two ideas. Behind that innovation, first they said advertisers are very uncomfortable with buying ads and paying by impressions because not all impressions are created equals very, very hard for people to think about impressions. So let's charge per click and this way you get guaranteed value. Right when we charge per click, you get guaranteed value. You know what you're getting, or at least approximately so dramatically reduces cognitive costs for an advertiser. In some sense, that sort of almost guarantees that you're getting some value when you have to pay when you don't. When you don't get a click, you don't have to pay, right? So that was very clever move. They were the first ones who came up with it. The second thing that they did, they actually have three innovations. The second thing that they did that was even cleverer. They said, well, we don't need. Our sales force. We don't need to have negotiated contracts will use an auction. So this was very clever because that allowed before go to the smallest amount of Internet advertisements that you can buy as an advertiser was $5000. Nobody will sell you less than 5000 and you would have to search a lot to get someone to sell you $5000 worth of advertisement. Everybody wanted to sell like at least $50,000 blocks. Certainly nothing less than 5000. So we've got to buy $20 worth of advertisement no problem, because it's automated. There's an auction. So search was very important. The other innovation that they had that again was very smart. This is well, people who are willing to pay more that probably more relevant. The plumber is going to pay a lot for the word plumber and he is going to be willing to pay a lot less for work. Carpenter, although admittedly some people who search for carpenters are also may be interested in the plumber, right? So you actually get pretty relevant result just by sorting by bit, but they made one mistake. They use the generous first price auction. You don't pay the bid of a person below. You pay your own bit, so that's what we call generous first price auction and.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
This is actual data from Overture, a old date. It's one day in a life of 1 keyword. So, but it's very common pattern, so this is the highest bidder. Highest bid for that keyword. So you see the pattern that we observe here. Very strange pattern, but.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
You see a lot of those in the data, so this is the same keyword. But now with two weeks in the life of that keyword. So this is again there. Payment per click or the bid of the highest bidder for that keyword, and it changes overtime and goes up and down, up and down, up and down. What's going on here? I'll tell you what's going on. It's generous first price auction. So let's say I'm bidding $10. And let's say the guy below me is bidding on the $6 Oh my God. I'm so overpaying I can still be ranked number one. I could still be in the first position. I don't have to pay $6. I should be bidding $6 and 1 cent. And then I would still be in the position number one, but paying $6. So then that guy who was below me who is in the second position, who is bidding $6 here, thanks. I'm at the second position paying $6. I could be paying $6 and two cents and I will be in the first position, so of course the guy in the first position get like 30% more clicks. I'm making good money on those clicks are going to be in the first position for just a few cents more, so I'll increase my without beat that guy. So the second guy outbids the guy and then the first guy says I'm now in the second position. That's not acceptable because just for two more sense I can be in the first position again. So here are busy van. You got the story, so that's how you get this pattern. So how do we get those regular patterns in the data? Well, this is not humans. Because those guys were trying to do that. Something like that, but they realize it's futile. You couldn't just spend your life adjusting your bit, so they wrote little out of bidders that were very popular. Everybody was using the same outer builder. And that's what you see. This is what generates those patterns. So here I, I guarantee you, I know what happened. The sysadmin who was writing running the advertisement campaign for one of those advertisers came in, looked at those patterns. So this is nuts. And he started to adjust his bids. He adjusted them for about 10 minutes, then he had to go for lunch and then things continued as usual. Then some other guys are. This is not try to do something interesting and unusual. He's pretty patient about it. He was really trying but didn't work. Right, so you can see this is not a healthy pattern because you want to give the highest slot to the guy who has the highest value per click. You don't want two people alternating between those slots. This is similar to the match not being stable, right? The match between positions advertisers is not stable in general is first.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Suction so guess what? One Google realized that Yahoo is making a lot of money through those auctions ISM because even though it was an imperfect system and they were leaving a lot of money on the table, they were actually putting a lot of money in the drawer too. They were, it was very profitable since the beginning. So on Google realized that they said, well, let's adopt this system, but couldn't we do a little better and they did this. Well, everybody seems to be trying to just build 1 cent above the guy below him. That's why it's not stable. Let's just charge them there. Bit of a person below them. That's House General second price auction was invented. So that was 2002. So that's a story that repeats the story from the first slide. Remember GAIL and Shapley invent a wonderful algorithm, but then sort of market figures it out before them. Vickery invents second price auction, but it turns out market figured it out before them, so in this case in fact market figured something out. That so later you will see that the speakers very good properties that it's a pretty good mechanism. So this is again an example of someone who was just an intelligent person tinkering with things arriving too. Very pretty, good mechanism. There's very good theoretical properties, so of course it was designed by, I think a graphical engineer. It was just sort of like a guess on his part, but that's how markets evolve, like you guesses.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So. So it turns out. Uh. Well, let me. I have 15 more minutes. OK, whoops, sorry. OK.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So it turns out that in that mechanism, under certain assumptions I skip skip, skip a few things here, but under certain assumption we can actually characterize the equilibrium of this mechanism, and this formula tells us what would be the bids of advertisers. If you will tell me the values per click of which advertiser, so here I'm assuming something that Jason describes, so it's Jason described. He said one values are linear, everything works well, right? So I'm assuming that values are linear in the sense that basically said that it has certain value per click values look like at $6 he's values, first click and $6 his 20th click worth $6 to him. Two. That's totally reasonable. If your store you're trying to sell things you have constant profit margin, you have as many of those in stock as Poss as you want. So you have the same profit for any of the clicks, so that's what we're assuming here. So it's not a crazy assumption at all. So S here determines the value per click of advertiser I, an Alpha K, Alpha K -- 1. Our average click through rate for position K and K -- 1. So it turns out that there's a very simple formula where basically if you can tell me what is recursive formula, what is the value per click of each advertiser an what is the clickability of different positions? I will tell you what people would be than equilibrium. And they will generally be less than the true values, and this formula tells us exactly how much less. Because remember SI is a true value of advertiser I. So he builds his true value minus some term. Right, so this is very nice and this is. So if Evan gets, it gets even better under certain assumptions. This equilibrium is unique, so there are no other equilibrium and gets better, Yep. Their total revenues of the auction ear in this auction are exactly the same as in our vision mechanism. Remember that mechanism that I mentioned that would match am goods, 2K buyers. So here goods are positions on the page and buyers are advertisers, so we can actually apply vicar mechanism called Visual, Vickrey, Clarke, Groves. Find out what the revenues would be. It's this mechanism is known to be to be efficient, meaning that we we multiply the maximize total payoff of all players combined. So it turns out that GSP auction with those equilibrium bids gives. Gives us, gives the auctioneer exactly the same revenues as Actioneer would get if you were using the efficient auction. This injunction, which means that this auction is sufficient, right? So it's again an example of market inventing an efficient auction mechanism just by tinkering. Tinkering is important, so. So this is from my paper with Edelman Ostrovsky. So also in another paper with the carrier in a number of coauthors will show that. If advertisers follow fairly simple myopic strategies, they would always converge to this equilibrium.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So I'll skip the intuition behind.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Proof, but now I'll talk about the optimal mechanism. So for now I. So what's the difference between efficiency and optimality efficiency is you maximize the total payoff to all players. An essay, as Jason already told you, prices and transfers don't matter, because if I pay you $5 for something that doesn't influence efficiency at all. Because when I pay you $5, I'm minus five and your plus five. So when we compute. The sum of our pay offs that cancels out right? So monitor transfers are irrelevant for efficiency. So yes, we know that so efficient mechanism is just the mechanism to maximize the sum of. Pay off all players so the optimal auction is an auction that maximizes payoff of the auction ear. This is different from efficiency, right? Because the interests of auctioneer closely aligned with the interests of buyers but not perfectly aligned. So that's why there's usually difference between efficiency and optimality, although not always. So note that since we know how to compute the equilibrium in this auction for each reserve price, we can compute expected. We can compute what the revenues would be over. The expected revenues would be. So the question is, if you want to maximize the revenues of actioneer, do you want to charge 0 reserve price? That's the reserve price that would lead to efficiency. Or do we want to charge some positive reserve price? Or do we want to use a completely different mechanism? May be an auction. Maybe we can extract more revenues with the mechanism other than auction. So what this theorem says is that there's a formula. That tells us what reserve price we should charge, and I'll tell you in a second how that formula Works. But there's a formula that tells us what reserve price we should charge in order to maximize expected revenues of an auction ear and. It is also an optimal mechanism, meaning that if you try some other mechanism other than GSP other than auction perhaps, and you want to find a mechanism that will get you higher revenues than this mechanism with an optimal reserve price, you can never find such mechanism right? So this is a nice property so. So basically we assume that the values of bidders, the values of bidders per click are drawn from a distribution with PDF function F of B and we assume that function is known. So this is PDF F lodges accumulative probability distribution, so all we have to do we have to know the probability distribution from which the values of bidders are drawn. So of course may be difficult to estimate, but assuming that we know it, I have a very simple formula that tells me. How to set reserve price? That's it. So this is a generalization of classic Myerson result about optimal auction design. And so classic Myerson results result applies to single auction to environment with a single object for sale. So here we have multiple objects that are not homogeneous. So in a paper with Adelman, we basically derive derive this result for the GSP auction.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So here are a couple of entertaining slides. So percent increase in search engine revenues is based on simulation. When we go from zero reserve price to optimal reserve price would very much depend on the number of bidders. If there are 10 bidders, you got only a few percentage points from setting reserve price optimally. So there's some assumptions here, but probability distribution from which values are drawn. We assume that this lognormal for purposes of the simulation of humans log normal with mean of one and. $1 and standard deviation of $0.25. So you see that when there are very few bidders, reserve price really increases your revenues a lot. This is not very surprising when there are a lot of bidders enough.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Competition, so here's a slide that would surprise you, and I think that contains an important lesson so. Here again, based on the same simulation, we decided to compute how much additional incremental revenues a search engine would get when he moved. When a search engine moves from a reserve price of $0.10 to an optimal reserve price. And this is by position, right? So an advertiser in position 5 would pay just a little bit more to the search engine and advertiser in position 4. His total payment will increase a bit more advertisers in position 1, two and three would have almost identical increases in the total payments, so this is very surprising result. And there's a reason why I'm showing you this slide. So first, why is it surprising? Because reserve price directly affect only to get the bottom usually maybe two bottom guys. So you would expect that those guys will start paying a lot more when you increase reserve price, but the top guys, while they were bidding much more than there, is optimal reserve price to start with, so that payment shouldn't change much. So here you see the opposite. So why is that? So? It turns out that when you introduce reserve price, the bottom guy, he either drops out or he increases his bit. The next guy. Maybe he also drops out, but not that likely or he increases his bid a little bit. The top guys are very unlikely to drop out, but because the bottom guys bidding higher they end up being a little bit in a little bit higher than they were building before, just a little tiny but not a big difference. But remember the top guys are getting a lot of clicks, so even though they're paying a little bit tiny bit more per click since they're getting so many clicks. There's a big increase in the number of. Be there in.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
The revenues there. My access was.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Uh, why it's incremental search? It's not scaled quite right, but basically it's scale. Yeah, it was called up the scale on this slide, but basically is proportional to what to what we have. We have a certain number of a certain number of options that we run in the simulation and they should have mentioned it on the slide, but basically it's proportional to revenue increase. From which position?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So here's a theorem. So in fact that slide that simulation is not surprising. In fact, there's a theorem that says that reserve price causes an equal increase in total payments of all advertisers whose values are above reserve price. So that means.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
But if advertiser one advertiser two are above reserve price with probability very close to one. Then we should expect that the increase in the total payments would be essentially identical and that's what we see in the simulation. So why is it important and why is it important for you to know that? So, and the reason is that.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
The reason is that it's very content.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Active because if you sort of approach this problem for machine learning POV you think well. We increase the reserve price with all the bids. So in the short run, here's the revenue increase that we get and you would see that all the revenue increase would come from the bottom bidder, and so maybe I'll get some extra revenues from top bidders, but that's probably a second order effect. So here you see that the 2nd order effect is order of magnitude greater than the 1st order effect. It's just kind of shocking. So and and there's an important lesson here, because as a computer scientist studying auctions, one very important thing to do is to remember that whenever we change something in the auction, just measuring something in a bucket or measuring something for half a day is likely not to tell you the full story because the bidder response that would typically occurs over two or three months. It's not fast, but that be the response is. Very much first order the 2nd order effect due to be the responses is order of magnitude bigger here than the 1st order effect that you're likely to observe immediately. Very quickly, right? So that that introduces sort of, I think a challenge for machine learning because here's this environment with sort of great stickiness where you take an action and then this actually has very slow long term consequences because bidders, as Jason mentioned bidders take along time to wake up to change something in the system. You change something in the system builders. Keep builds the same well, maybe for three weeks, maybe for a month, but then they start adjusting and adapting and that so when you're trying to estimate what difference you action made, you have to somehow figure out the tools to take into account this slow response.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So. To conclude, here's my very strange can.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And I'd like to so this is all I have to say about Sponsored Search advertisement, but I still have one minute and I would use this one minute to conclude with a statement that doesn't at all follow from this talk. So after seeing like four or four papers about sponsored search, you might think that myself and everybody else in Yahoo Research is just doing sponsored search advertisement. That's what we're all about. And it's just not true. So, for example, I work a matching. That has nothing to respond to search going back to that problem of gallon sharply. That's a classic problem. Just last summer I worked with the internal student from Stanford, Women, Young Men's, and were all the paper about stable matching in the market where there are wages, so it's jobs and employers. So now there is a little bit different set up, but it's essentially the same setup of GAIL and Shapley, and we showed that in that market there exists not only worker optimal stable match. An employer optimal stable match, but there also exists a stable match. That's a median stable match that for every employer when you're in a medium stable match, every employer would say, oh, this stable match of all stable matches. Half of them are worse for me, and half of them are better for me and every worker has a says the same thing. So for this table match, the same is true for me. So it's interesting that there also exists a middle ground point. So what does have to do? Responsive search? Well, nothing and everything. Everything in the mechanism design. Is connected, thank you.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Questions. We were talking.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Audi Market switched from, you know first grade option to a second bid auction. We talked about how we first Overture came along and then you had an engineer back questionnaire. Google who tried the secondary bid mechanism. I'm just wondering if Yahoo's official position is that Google just got lucky. So first of all, I'm a scientist. I don't represent Yahoo. Everything that I said today is my opinion. It's not an opinion of a Yahoo in spite of the fact that you see this big picture. So my position would be that there is no such a thing as getting like. Yeah, like if you look at the American Medical Association when they basically invented deferred acceptance algorithm, did they get lucky? Well, the guy who invented it was very, very clever anesthesiologist and he was tinkering with things. He kind of got like the edges and got lucky when he invented the light bulb. I bet hit dead because he didn't know that bamboo would be the best possible material to make a light bulb, but that's what Firstblood bulb was. Bamboo, right? So surely he was likely that he came across bamboo, but he was looking right? So it's the same thing. There's always a combination of intelligence and lock. So following up with something you were hinting at how robust our predictions. If it actually takes three or four weeks for people to adjust, how robust with the predictions of something like what the optimal design is B2 misspecification in the model of the distribution over user valuation. So that's a very good question, and this is something that we always struggle with in practice, so I'm very heavily involved with product. So for example reserve price that Yahoo introduced. That was one of the products that I designed. And obviously the actual product is much, much more complicated than what you have seen in this paper. In fact, if it were the same, I wouldn't be able to present this paper to you. So this being said, I think for certain things it's quite robust. So for example things. So we certainly observe advertiser response and it sort of happens in the right direction of roughly right order of magnitude. Do we get it sort of always right? Absolutely not, so there's lots of noise in nature and also lots of things that are not quite that sort of behaving this model, but that are not quite true in reality. So there's certainly lots of important second order effects. So yeah. Reserve prices to convert the. Efficient auction into an optimal option, it's just purely making more revenue, or for. Yeah, that's a very good question, and the answer is yes. And also in the framework of this model. The answer is definitely yes and you know, since I asked you to forget everything that Jason said and to assume that we have spherical horses, dancers yes. But in reality of answers actually know because Yahoo really cares deeply about user experience and what does the reserve price do well. We end up showing fewer ads. Well, that could be good for user experience while improving user experience could be good in the long run for advertisers too. So also note that and that's something I didn't talk about today, but it turns out that. Ads with high value for advertiser also tend to be more relevant to the user on average and surf easy to see why right? Let's advertiser only values you click at one Pena. Well how much consumer Sir? Plus do you expect to get from this click? Well, if advertiser values let's click at $20 then you know it's likely that the Sir plus that you are getting as a consumer is also considerable because otherwise advertiser would have been able to. To reduce the price and get a lot more consumers to buy from him right? So so basically user. So from user experience, perspective and user relevance perspective, reserve price could be a very good thing. And that also could trickle down to advertisers. Outside the model. So in the I don't know if you actually have any perspective on this, but you were showing that we are graphical weird behavior in the generalized first price auction that they were using an. I'm wondering in terms of equal tinkering with things and so on. The first thing when pink office to make the prices that people are paying not transparent to other potential bidders. Ann is the first price auction still unstable under that kind of situation. An exact quote led to the development of the second price auction in. This I see that's a very good question, so it's definitely if bits of other people are not transparent. It would be a lot more stable for sure, but it will still remain unstable and would remain particularly unstable in the markets that matter the most like you saw the car insurance market, right clicks are like right now. Click somewhere above $10. At that time they were about under $10.00, so this huge volume of very expensive clicks. So if you don't show me the bits of others in that market. I would experiment with my bid. I'll see my position in about 3 minutes. I'll know what the bits of others are, and since there's such a huge search, well if it's just going to take almost no time, it will be just a hassle for advisors. They'll nail it. If it's a market, something like vacation in rural Canada, blah blah blah. They got few searches, not that much value, so. Fewer people would bother to figure out and to optimize because it just wouldn't be worth the time. My sense is that most advertising options have good improvements during post. I wonder what effect do you think that has any theoretical analysis and what reason that there is for having issues, but my sense is most analysis that shoots right computer right so? I mean, there's a philosophical debate, right? Some people think that everything in nature is discrete and continuous things artificial, and some people think that everything in nature is continuous and discrete things artificial. The first type of people are called computer scientists. The second type of people are called economists. So I'm not going to argue either either point. But the discrete increment was 1 cent, which is basically kind of the loss. You can go. Obviously you can go lower, but. One Sansome seems logical, and at least theoretically speaking a small bid increment versus continuous auction makes no difference whatsoever. Obviously large big increments would make a difference, but small bid increments. What is the search search market in selling keywords difficult selling stock? So I think stocks are my stocks ready says. Well, the price equilibrium you got markets. Why doesn't that model work for first or search advertising as well? That's a very good question. So first of all, general second price auction is actually in many ways similar to the market. So in some countries, including Canada Edge, the market for stock users circle open order book where you basically submit a buyer, submit their willingness to sell stock for sale. To buy a submit the willingness to buy submitted, willingness to pay when they intersect the transaction occurs right? So it's sort of quite similar to January 2nd. Price auction somewhat similar at least, but there are many important differences between those those two markets. So for example, it's almost certainly not the case that there are some people who are willing to purchase essentially unlimited number of stock at a given price, right? When I go to buy stock as I have $10,000 to invest, this stuff looks pretty good OK? By this diversified fund with something like that. So this sponsors. Certainly businesses that I look on each click, we're making a dollar. If we can buy those clicks at $0.50, we can buy infinite number of those clicks. We can buy as many as available because it's just instantly pays off, so that's one of the differences between sponsored search and stock market. Yes. Be interesting to try to estimate the deviation from rationality of different types of bidders bid for different times. That's a very good question, so it's very difficult questions. I will, I looked at it a little bit, don't have anything written and published on that, and the answer is very different when you talk about something like rationality, sort of, documenting deviations from rationality, and figuring out exactly what people are doing is quite quite complicated. Becausw well. That's just the sort of layers and layers of complexity there, so it's very hard to quantify, but I think it's a very interesting question. Classifier that nearly cost them to identify differences between different demographics for sure, like big advertisers versus small advertisers. Absolutely, I think I think it's quite interesting question. I'm saying it's a difficult one, but I think it's quite interesting, but it's not easy. In Detroit. We do have a bigger space for discussion uploads. Can you put that out of? Asking you to come here. Again, thank you. This.
