It's the topic is lightweight spatial conjunctive query answering using keywords. So the so our our work is part of a larger project which is embedded in a semantical enriched route planning system and so we do one part of this work. So these are concepts by attributes and spatial relations. I want to give you a quick look at and at motivating example, so we're here in Montpelier and we want tonight you want to go for some Italian food and it should be non smoking. We have to provide the algorithm for evaluating our our tool so the what, what's happening that through this disjunction of conjunctions, we have an exponential blowup of our query size regarding spatial atoms, which is bad. Things get now much easier now. We actually can separate our evaluations of use. The notion of a joint tree. This can be done by three decomposition and we create like a train tree with nodes, weapon ontology, pattern notes, whichever spatial part. So first we evaluate all on ontological nodes by applying the standard daylight query, rewriting the perfect we applied perfect riff algorithm and second now we use our special atoms and their pilings just for filtering. We keep the results in memory and two the filtering in memory as well, and this will have will see later. It needs to completion rules and a nesting function. I would say not very successful becausw in general like queries are getting exponentially large and we now at this point can generate very general queries. So this means we have a huge hierarchy of unions. So what we need to do is actually to also define or create a refinement algorithm too. Replace this very channel concepts with more like bottom level concepts. If we rewrite this and. It's part of this my RTS routing plan planner and it has to use cases. We wrote a prototype in Java bits based on post keys and values. Also the postgis functions and for the rewriting. It's never did get developed further so we're actually looking to replace this with a more recent. So now I'm here for these two benchmarks at results, and we already observed that the refinement was essentially for the feasibility of our approach. Postgres, like the query evaluation, other optimizer failed, it just crashed and after refinement it got down to 28. So this can be really used already in practice and it is used in practice so. So I introduced an extension of the light with spatial objects. We provided technique from to generate from keywords like spatial conjunctive queries and we implemented a prototype and performed experiments on this and future research. Yeah, thanks for that very interesting talk. I mean it would be. So as said already, keyboard based input without prior knowledge of the user. So we also have aim to have scalable spatial query answering. Maybe I mentioned that I do not cover the light in this talk. We define spatial relations, our notion of spatial relations is. So this means we do not. But this makes things particularly theoretically easier for us, so we so our relations are based on spatial objects. Optics or in case of of a Polygon, we need to at least have three points. And finally a function that Maps our spatial objects to this geometry. But at this point we still don't. So now we get to the spatial relations themselves. If you have inside, we do a subset calculation if we have, for example intersect to two point, it's just have to share a single point. Now we have also spatial database called Tia will also like use this later and. Relation allowing entails our databases if it evaluates to true relative to our point function. In concept they can have a special extension and the second one says they have the test extension S. So here is an example we have like 2 concept Part, City Park Cafe. They called space like spatial really as atoms for spatial relations, which are like here we see the syntax which is which is added to the standard terms of conjunctive query. So in our case we compile our spatial atoms into union of conjunctive queries and what we do is we create this junction of conjunction of every single combination of spatial object which whichever certain spatial relation. What we do, and in case if we have a fixed spatial database which is normally the case, we can actually eliminate.