Then if you review our program, which we said before, now we need the optimal approximation rate within this model situation and also there he gave an answer. So if you have a frame then the best you can do if you look at the square, the two error squared is North to the minus two. If they satisfy certain conditions, then this forms a frame. A&B are controllable so we have formulas for this which I don't want to bother you with this. So again, now we have a cartoon like function. Wherefore F we take free samples no on some discrete set Delta we have our response representation and then we want to reconstruct the SI Lambda from this. Now where's the problem where the problem is that this formula I mean doesn't hold 4 frames? OK, I mean, this seems reasonable, but I mean now we have a problem because we actually don't know the dual frame analytically. So how can we achieve this? Well, what I gained is that now I have what we call a dual isable shared system, which is a compact supported frame and I have an explicit form for the dual. So the optimal rate if you look down here, was into the minus. Well, I mean we all know that acquiring data is of tremendous importance. I have the parameter S which give me the directory and for each direction I choose a particular number of samples randomly randomly according to a probability distribution. Now, as J goes to Infinity and this holds with probability at least 1 -- 2 to minus Jason with very high probability. OK, so in the last few minutes let me show you also some numerical experiments, which we do. So this is our direction sampling scheme. In which we sample, we compare it with this variable density sampling scheme. What you see here is wavelets pass plus variable density sampling with 5% sampling rate. You see, here is a sampling rate you see here. The peers in R. The proper line is the way flip scheme with their density sampling the next slide blue is way fits with directional sampling scheme. So with our sampling scheme we just introduced these three lines which are barely distinguishable. But this shows the next graphics, which I hope you can see. We can take points samples of those we introduced a particular sampling reconstruction scheme for this within a model situation for the theoretical part within the model situation using dual isable Shields and using a particular direction sampling scheme we could prove in fact asymptotical optimal recovery optimal in a sense that we have. Now in this talk we had focused as already set on the particular situation of having point samples of the Fourier transform. Now spiral structures OK. Then we also require a model for F, otherwise I mean we cannot talk about the sparse representation because this we can only say it is, let's say an optimist process representation within a certain model situation and also adaptively we need to choose our frame. How many samples are required and M goes to Infinity. One of these sampling schemes and returns a function, a continuous function in L2R2. And if I did N go to Infinity, certainly I mean this error the case and I would like that it decays at exactly the same rate then which is optimally possible and the optimal possible rate is exactly this to the minus Alpha. And in this talk, what we will see and how we will set it up is our continued model will be functions governed by another truck. Let's say the most prominent structures so it will be a directional variable. OK, yeah, so let's start with suitable model.