[0.0s - 29.0s]
A fundamental issue in doing that and doing natural language computation is to figure out the content of the natural language language processing. I think, though you'll be disappointed, and so I think you'll be disappointed as well. And the way in which we do it. We don't use two valued logic. Nor do we use fuzzy logic, but we use probabilities, and so we basically count things and we basically ask. Given the situation with the following parameters, what's the most likely answer an for most of the time? The most likely answer is the answer that you want, and we don't. We're not aiming for 100%, we're not aiming for AI actually, so so it's very funny that if you look at the difference in generations in AI researchers, there are people over at AAAI today, I was there yesterday and gave a talk, and there are people over in San Francisco. Triple AI. Now who are either from the original generation or children of the original generation. And they're looking for human level brain modeling artificial intelligence. Right, so McCarthy at all, right? And I agree with you that Professor McCarthy is still searching for the two valued logic solution to human level intelligence. Absolutely. There are people who have done 3 level logics. There are three valued logics. There are people who've done fuzzy logic, but if you look at this stuff well, if you look at a younger generation an I mean people school, particularly language in the late 80s, early 90s, late 90s. I don't think they would say they're doing AI. I think they would say they're doing. Gadget hearing right? So I call myself a gadget here. Now let's be clear if I could help contribute to building an actual thinking machine that would be super cool. I would really like that. But there's so much low hanging fruit and there are so many results that we can get in building semantic computing machines that don't deal with the hard problems. And I mean, hard. Sort of an AI hard sense, NP hard sense. The hard problems of actually figuring out how the mind works or how we interpret, or I think all of these AI hard problems are essentially equivalent right? In the same way that the hard problems are sensual and. My prediction and this is a. Slightly off the off, you know, shooting from the hip kind of prediction. My prediction for the next 30 or 50 years is if we do get something close to intelligence, it's because it's going to be an agglomeration of small systems. They're making statistical decisions, so I actually believe the better model of the mind is related to a better model of the brain. An recent brain science suggests that we have multiple brains that have over the eons merged together, and they all make different types of decisions. Or different types of feature extraction. And at the end they come together. So I purport to say that what we're doing in natural language processing is not trying to discover intelligence. That's not our goal. What we're trying to do is essentially string processing such that the output is intelligible to humans. Right now, what's the difference? I'm not trying to do AI because that string processing I don't care at all if it behaves the same way that humans behave, I don't care at all. I don't care if the machine I build that I talked to is isomorphic to humans is a model of humans. I just don't care. What I want is an input string from humans and an output string intelligible to humans, and how we do it in between is how we do it in between. Now. How does this relate to the larger AI project? I actually believe that's hypothesis building. If I can build a system that takes strings to strings, most importantly human intelligible strings to human intelligible strings, the way in which I did it is an existence proof that it can be done so, but agree with that, right? So if I can build it, then the way I wish I did it. Obviously, cytology is an existence proof, and it can be done, and I say here's something that works. Let's take a look at the brain and ask does the brain do it similarly, as opposed to doing it the other way around, which is. Using a view of the world handed down from Aristotle on. Mathematically manipulated and possibly corrupted by the logicist's. To say this is the way the mind works, I just don't think that's a fruitful enterprise, so I'm just laying on my cards on the table. But I do love the idea of natural language computation. My part in this is what's that input string mean? So you could actually turn it into some representation. So enough hedging aside.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Please interrupt at any point so this can be as interactive as you like it be, and you can even I mean, comments, derision. I don't care, just you can go if you think I'm crazy, it's my feelings are very rarely hurt. I stole almost all of these slides. Here are the people I stole them from. I'm proud of the fact that I stole them from smart people there. So there you go.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So what I'd like to start with is a distinction between linguistics, computational linguistics, and natural language processing. I hope to give some informative history, and in this history I don't mean to say that's taking a logical approach, won't work. I just think taking a large. I don't think technological approach will work, but many people think it'll work fine and it's amazing to me in the field how everybody goes. Oh, in 50 years will get it in 20 years. We'll get it. We're almost there, but 20 more years. And from a perspective having a job. Funders pretty much gave up on this 20 or 50 horizon long time ago, right? They want in five years, and I think that's fair. I actually think that's fair. Boy, have a soapbox that you're going to listen. An If I know I know English is not what's that. From Bonnie at all. Well, she's now just right exactly. I had a meeting with her. That's not why stolen from her, but I still inform before she was adopted program manager, but I'm happy I stole him from her. I forgot my soapbox was sorry. Oh, I do know, but if I speak too fast, I know that I speak English very, very fast. I think that I'm fairly precise in my articulation, but if I'm not, stop me and slow me down. I don't want you to be bored. I don't want you checking your email. I don't want you thinking. Oh, reading the web is more interesting than talking listening to me. So if I'm talking too fast, or if you are reading the web, just raise your hand and we can all look at the web together. Here's where I think that funders are justified. We lied to them. I think we straight up lied. I think the early AI community, Sir. I apologize. I think the early AI community just lied. I think they in fact didn't really believe in 50 years would solve the problem and I think they kept saying in 50 years would solve the problem. Thank you very much. Would solve the problem and funders went finally and said, that's ridiculous. If you look at the early stuff, there's a certain point where you know you're reaching a plateau and we kept saying, oh, we're going to get just one more, just one more so I'm cool with the fact that funders I have no idea to open this. That's one way I'm cool with the fact that funders want a five year time horizon. That makes perfect sense to me and I don't even lament. I in fact don't even lament the fact that there's not long term funding. I used to think end of the Cold War I. I'm very odd. I used to think I can't believe the Cold War is over. That's terrible that the Cold War is over. Why would the Cold War be good for researchers? Funding there was an evil empire and and regardless of your political view, there was this evil empire and we had to build things that was going to defeat the evil Empire, so they just piled money into our field, right? And I used to be bothered by that, but I actually think the right thing now is to look for low hanging fruit and then move up the ladder and move up the ladder and move up the ladder. I really think a bottom down a bottom up approach is the way to go, so that's going to be part of my information history. And then we're going to talk a little bit about how useful going going distributional is building probabilistic models. The difference in being able to parse via rules versus parse beings via statistics. And then I'm actually going to stop the slides, and we're actually going to do a little bit of the math right. I assume that everybody here is sufficiently mathematically sophisticated that they can do some probability, and we'll just we'll just work through a little bit of it just so you can see how we do it. And then I'm hoping in the lab that if we don't actually get a chance to hands-on build a spam filter, I'm hoping the laptop to be able to show you all of the math so that you could build it easily so it's remarkable spam filtering, trivial to build, no interpretation, no semantics. No understanding what the content of the email is at all. Just looking at distributions we get 90% accuracy on spam versus not spam. OK, so that's the overview of where.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Gonna go.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So what's the difference between linguistics, computational linguistics, and natural language processing? This might take these are my slides. I don't think anyone else in the list may or may not agree with me. Linguistics is the study of language, and it's a scientific study of language, so I don't care what camp you are in linguistics. That doesn't bother me at all. But the goal of linguistics is defined universals that range across languages and to understand structures that range across languages and understand how languages developed and how languages have changed. But it's a scientific objective study. And to discover what, maybe in the natural kinds of languages are.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Computational linguistics is the applying of computational tools to this goal. Now, this is very fascinating that the study of modern sort of Chomskyan linguistics, the rise of that, and the rise of computer science, rise of computation, linguistics, happen hand in hand, not surprising, since Chomsky had a hand in both, right? There's the Chomsky hierarchy in this Chomskyan linguistics, but but if you look at what was going on in Cambridge Mass at the time, you could've been in Linguistics Department or event in a. Or at Penn for example, then in a computer science Department and you might have been doing very similar things. Computational linguistics then is is using a corpus to get data for your linguistic hypothesis. It's using the results from computational complexity. It's remarkable if you talk to a linguist who doesn't understand computational complexity, how they will pause it. Algorithms that are two to two to the N right, and so regardless of what their philosophical view is, the brain could not implement that right? So I mean. It's remarkable when they finally get how big two to the 100 is. If you say to them really to the 100, I want you to think about how big this number is. They finally get this look in their eye and they realized that maybe they have to theorize slightly differently. So computational linguistics is an attempt to use computational tools for the linguistic problem, but it stays true to the natural phenomenon of language, and so if you came to this talk, hoping to see either of those slides, you will be sorely disappointed because what I care.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Out. Is text processing with the goal I want to build things. I want to build things work. I want to build a system that will actually read my email and tell me I have an appointment. the Mac Mail does really well with that, by the way, but it could be better, right? It could be better if anybody use Mac Mail. Alright, so you know how when it when it says you want tomorrow at 5:00, you can click on it up on your calendar. It's pretty darn good. It's pretty darn good. Not great, but pretty darn good. That's a cool. That to me, is semantic computing, right? But it doesn't do it at all. By the way humans read or so, so I don't really care if it does it. By the way, human. To be really clear though, natural language processing is not speech recognition. Speech recognition is a completely different phenomenon. In our field, we make a distinction. There's the speech community in the language community and the term language. Unfortunately, it's just been Co opted. It doesn't mean that all of the things that go along with language because it meant all of the things that go along with language and include gesture and facial expression and intonation and really cool stuff like that too. I find paralinguistic fascinating. But speech recognition is the trend is a transformation from pressure waves generated by this articulatory structure to sequence of phones and those sequences of phones then get chopped up into words, and once they're chopped up in a string of words, that's when that's when the language people care about it, so it's an artificial distinction. But it makes some sense. So natural language processing sets of algorithms that solve problems that people want solved, like topic detection, authorship detection, even semantic understanding, not here yet, but we're on the way runway. Last year I didn't have them on slide last year I would have said that we've made some nice progress in semantic understanding, but we did it statistically. It's fascinating we did it statistically so we can talk about that and natural language processing can use any technique that works, and it doesn't pretend to stay true to cognitive science. So it's already clear we've got linguistic science over here. We've got complete gadgety ring over here in the middle. We have a mixture. I'm over here. This is the kind of work that I do. I do this kind of work 'cause it's neat and it actually gets results and I think it's informative for the cognitive science project. Everybody follow along with me. Most people are seem to be coherent. I'm sure you're all jet lagged.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Tired.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So some early LP success is the goal. With systems that behave comparably to humans on given linguistic tasks, models were often built on models of human reasoning, reasoning by analogy, logic, etc. There's shirt blue by Terry Winograd, and 71, where you interact with the simulation of a table top and you move move blocks around by talking to the machine. There's a Lisa anybody who's not seen a Lisa. Do I have web access?

[261.0s - 290.0s]
I do not know. So do I go to secure ECS or something with Baron said air bears alright? Cannot locate this Internet server or the proxy. Oh that's because we weren't. Connected device so well that's connecting oh here we go. So our question. Yeah, so the Turing test because it was sort of the Turing test is specified. How you achieve the goal of agree? I agree, so I'm not actually criticizing turn mean turning. Actually think I hit, I think turning hit the nail on the head Turning's argument was we can't define intelligence. First of all, to really clear that original test was, can you tell a boy from a girl, right? It wasn't actually human from a computer, but it's evolved into human from computer and and The Who doesn't know the Turing test is. OK, who knows the Turing test is? It should be the complement of that first set. It was OK good. So so during the response was look we're not going to find, it's just going to behavioral and I'm very OK with that, right? OK, so let me just get into the guest account, but I actually think so. If we're going to go down this path. Gerald, I'm happy to do so. I think the problem with the Turing test is it requires nothing of the of the interlocutor. I think a better if you guys want to call this the Martell test, you're welcome to in any paper that you write, but. Though I have tenure now so it doesn't matter that much, but it still would be nice to have a Martell test. I think a better model is one that extracts resources from from the interlocutor because I think so I think a better goal is a computational salesman, then a competition in locker and you measure it by. Within how many dollars? How many euros since dollars are worthless within within? How many euros can you get to what an actual sales would have gotten from you? Now that's going to be hard to implement, obviously, but I think a better test is a test that requires real commitment from me in the investment. That thing is intelligent, either that I entrusted to my child. We now have a four month old or I or or it's going to take some of my finances away or whatever. There's there's no investment in making the guests, and I think that we actually have different reasoning powers. And different, we make different judgments, psychological hypothesis that need to be tested. But I think we make different judgments when resources are on the line. Alright username. Guess, let's see. Oh wow, that's. I'm sorry for being late. I could have done this ahead of time. 58996 password capital PGL. Is that a little oh? Capital C9 Capital UW NT. OK, so how many people have not seen Aliza Aliza was a? An application. Written by Joseph Weizenbaum. At MIT and. Essentially, he thought the Turing test was not a good test, was not a good test of intelligence. How can I actually get the little further? Can everybody see that OK? And so he built this thing, and if you look at the code, it's ridiculously simple, right? It looks for very simple patterns in English and it mimics a rosarian therapist. Anybody know to Rosarian therapist is. Rosarian therapist is so do you know what a Rotarian therapist is whi don't you know? Rain therapist is. Just answer something. And so could you tell me more about never having read about rogerian therapy? That's rogerian therapy. What Rosie? And that's OK. It's a it's it's making fun of Aaron Therapy. But rosarian therapy days I'm sure it's actually quite useful, so I'm actually not. I'm not making fun of therapy, but I make fun of a lot of things, but I'm not making that rogerian therapy is you. Take a question. You take a statement and you turn it into a question to elicit more conversation from the interlocutor. So suddenly you can see that this might not be so hard to build. I'm going to give you a bunch of of. Statements in English. It's not so hard. Most languages have fairly simple transformation rules to turn them into questions. I don't know bout majar, it might be harder, but it's pretty hard and tie, I think, but I only I can only say I love you in Thai and that's delicious, so I don't know. So Weizenbaum wrote this. Here's a version of it catalyzer, and he said, look this, this is silly. Even if this were to pass the Turing test, look at the Code Lookout Rivulatus. So his response to Turing was, well, it doesn't matter if you just do behaviourally, it's it's not. It's not. We know that this is not intelligence, so, but it's pretty easy to break so. I am a heretic about AI. For me, yes, for. Uh, there's no. OK, so it defaults to. Why not, right? WHI and here's where it breaks down. Alright, well I don't know. I'm actually doing this on the fly, so don't expect. It's really hard to type and you can't see it. Don't get smart. This is a colloquium in English to me. Don't be rude. OK, so it's fun if you play with it a little bit more. You just search for Aliza on line allies, there's there's bunches of amount there. The codes out there. You can make it, you can break it pretty easily, but this is possibly an apocryphal story, and so I want to tag it as possibly apocryphal, although it might be in the wise amount paper itself, I don't remember whether it's possible. I read in the paper. The story is that he thought this was ridiculous. Nobody would actually be fooled. Even if you were fooled. The coding is so simple but that he, his secretary, discovered it on the on the computer and was was using it and got very upset when he came out and looked over her shoulder and she was actually thinking that she was involved in an actual conversation about her theoretical therapeutic issues. So let's go back to.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
OK. So we just jumped ahead, so that's how Elizar works. Wise amount thought it didn't work. The secretary thought it did shirt blue.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Look like this you would. There was the block world and you would talk to the machine. Pick up the red box. OK, the red is the human grasp. The pyramid. I don't understand which pyramid you mean. Find a block which is taller than the one you were holding and put it into the box by it. I assume you mean the block, the one I'm holding. This is not really natural language communication. I mean it's it's interactive an you can interact with the machine this way, but this is not really getting a natural language. This is this is not not really a felicitous statement. It's grammatical, but it's not really felicitous. What does the box contain, etc. So these things were early.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Successes and.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And people got.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Excited about him, but the problem with them from my perspective is they took lots and lots and lots of person hours on a given domain. Write lots and lots and lots of person hours and the interactive nature and they work because the interactive nature allows for easy correction. So there are some domains I'm not. I'm not arguing this, but against this there are some domains in which you can write. Basically, linguistic grammatical rules that look like the way in which use that you believe you speak your natural language, put them into a box and they can interact fine, but they're almost always very brittle. So, for example, there is, I kid you not end well either. A couple space shuttles ago or the last one, there was an interactive system where you actually talked to the machine and it was written by some folks at Penn, and some folks at NASA, and it used Prolog of all languages, and so writing in Prolog doesn't allow me. You've got to be very precise about your rules, and it worked fine, but it worked fine because the grammar was constrained and if you talk to the box in an incorrect way, the box Adam ignore you or I don't care. Or I mean the box expected a particular input so you can build that you can build from clean formal models abox that imposes upon you your linguistic behavior. We can build that, but that's not natural language processing 'cause it's not natural language. Natural language processing is getting getting the box to understand you the way you actually speak.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK, so. What's my time? I know the time. I've got 20 minutes. That's fine, 'cause 'cause we have. We have an extra hour for me to ramble after the break I guess. Will judge the quality of my talk about how many people come back after the break. Nobody stampeding out, so that's one good sign. So here's how the statistical stuff works. This is Ken Church in 95. Obviously not Alonzo Church, and his goal was to classify classify a language and one way you think to classify the language is to think about the sound right or to look at the grammar or to look at the way word strings combined with one another. But it turns out all you have to look at you don't even have to. You don't have to take the words and divide them up into syllables, right? You have to look at three letter pairs. That's it. You have a sliding window of three characters. That's all, and you ask. What's the probability of those three letters given a particular language? Right was talking about this just in the last session yesterday. Great this exact thing. So good. So there you go, then you then I'm assuming around to do that. I don't know if you mentioned where we get this from where you get these numbers from. So where do you think we get these probabilities? It's right there on the slide, we don't make guesses, we don't. We don't take pre existing theories and try to encode them. We go out. This is what makes it engineering and we grab a bunch of data. We grab a bunch of data and we count it. Google, that's a beautiful thing. Google. Monty is a wonderful thing. Though the problem with Galante is that it's a static snapshot, right? We really need a resource. Is that now? I think there's a Microsoft. I think there's a Microsoft API that gives you current engrams, right? And that I think is that more dynamic. Actually not. It's also what we really need is someone actually generate this? I mean, I think the research, another soapbox, the way research has to get done, in my opinion, is different institutions writing writing web services provide all kinds of things like this to everybody. We need to sort of not be in silos anymore.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
OK, and just remarkably well worked. Alright, well, So what does it mean then to do topic modeling? So I'm just going to switch and now we're going to talk about a lot of people want to know the topic of a document, I mean, so we see different versions of this. Is the Amazon review positive or negative? Is this Amazon review spam? Is this a news doc in News Feed document that I actually want to read write? Like I'd like to read one that says the stock markets going up. I think it is today hope. So how do we do it? Well, look in the old days. We would take this document. We would parse it. Right, we still parse things, but we would parse it. We would try to get. We would try to get agent patient relationships involved in it. So basically we will try to impose a logical structure on it, something something akin to 1st order logic. We would assign the variables in logic to objects in this domain we would have relations among those variables and then we would basically do a version of MODIS opponents to try to get an inference or we would we would compare to something else right? But here's what we do now. We take this document. And we treat it as a collection of words, a vector. Linear algebra become remarkably important in our field. It's just a vector of words, right? So this document becomes this. Pretty shallow structure, right? What have we lost? So this says very excited. Did you just go up? No no, our hands on my work after yours. What was that? Your hands on which A1 and it might work. Actually don't mind going. Mines going to math in the board, 'cause the translator. So we say this document is 15 carbs 14 nuclear's, 10 pakistans, 9 transfers, 8 officials, and then we normalize that. So what's the probability of the word being con in there and the probability of being nuclear? So what have we lost? We lost the order and what's encoded in order, at least in a word, at least in a language like English. Syntax right. English is heavily word ordered right. English syntax is heavily ordered. If this were Latin we would we would not lose as much of the syntax. Now we would lose a lot of it because we would have con as a subject in con as an object, but we wouldn't know what the subject or object would have been of that sentence, right? So if it's a heavily case marked language, who speaks a Slavic language, right? So object subject marked. Right, so right? So, but but for us, for for English and many languages I mean look Latin. Is officially not word ordered, but you tend to get regular in the way you do it, right? So we've lost all kinds of stuff. We don't know whether nuclear weather this this is an adjective, but we don't know whether it's to scientists, journalists, governments, officials, plants state. We just have no idea, right? So we've actually lost all argument structure as well. So if we treat nuclear as a property will do. It's theoretically a set. We don't know what things are in the set picked up by nuclear.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
But we might want a little bit of. We might want a little bit of word order because word order in a language like English. It does change from language to language. I want to be clear about this. Word order in a language like English gives you a little bit of grammatical structure. It gives you a little bit of argument structure, so we use this as a proxy for that. Now, what do you notice? What am I repeating? Anything that was done in the last this? OK, what do you notice about the numbers here in the numbers here? Those numbers versus these numbers.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Well, those.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
You're bigger than these. Right, that's it really. Simple like this is very trivial class. If you have trivial comments, you're probably right. I don't do any profound work whatsoever. I will. I do nothing profound. I do gadgety ring and all I care about is little nitpicky things that make it work. So when I ask you a question, I'm asking for that little nitpicky question. Nothing profound in this class. This is not a philosophy class. I'll tell you what is profound, what's profound. For me, it was life changing academically. Was that this works? That was what was profound for me. OK, so the reason there are fewer bigrams and there are unigrams, so we call these in general column N grams.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
These are unigrams one.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Grams by grams to grams. Is. Huawei. Well, what's the possibility space for unigrams? I'll start the library. What's the possibility space for unigrams? How many possible unigrams are there? Different types, not tokens, different types. Well, the size of real Cavaleri. Right side you have your vocabulary and what's the vocabulary for English? Anybody know the size? Whole way bigger, let's define vocabularies is strings delimited by space space is used by humans. 20,000. That's a good guess. Actually, that's about an unabridged dictionary. An prior to Google. That's what we would use. But now what does Google tell us? 13 million the number of unique unigrams defined as strings separated by spaces. Another word delimiters periods and files, and so on that occurred more than 40 times in the snapshot of Google. One Ty more than 40 times or the rest could just be mistyped. So they figured if it occurred more than 40 times. Then we're going to have this natural phenomenon. That's a dial we could. We could turn OK, but 13 million if you look at it, there are URLs. There are crazy strings of symbols that you got from JavaScript or from HTML. There's a bunch of junk in it, but it's let's call it a million for all I care, right? We can call it 200,000 for like we could pick any number we want to write so, but as long as it's large enough and it works, I want to say that again. So just so you know, how not profound I am. We can pick any number we want to, as long as it's large enough so that it works. That's the goal. OK, and then what's the possibility space for bigrams then so will call the Vocabulary V. What's the if the possibility space for unigrams is V, what's the possibility space for bigrams? So a little bit of math guys come on is pretty easy. V ^2. Right there are V possibilities. In the first word and their RV possibilities in the second word. Are you worried about the lab now? I'm very scared about allowed number. I've actually try that one again just to get you guys used to it. How much the possibility space for bigrams. If the possibility space for Unigrams V. Come on, just just be trivial with me. Come on, play the game, just save Isquared. Thank you very much. So since the possible space is V squared, we are far less likely to see them. Right, we are. It's actually probably squared minus V. It doesn't matter. It's on the order of the squared because you can have now you could have stutters. You have people who type this like I'm happy, happy, right or or he's cute but not cute. Cute this is we do a lot of work on chat. We have a chat corpus and you see stuff like that, right? This is a teenage, usually female phenomenon where you can say I don't really mean the word I'm using unless I double it then. I mean the word I'm using, right? Well, she's nice, but not nice. Nice. I have no idea what that means, but you do see it, but you guys know what I mean, so I guess I guess I've had enough. But So what we really want, right? We would really want 5 grams or 7 grams, but what's the possibility space of a 7 gram? You just all better get this right? Vita 7th view this app. Yep yeah hey good job you pass. So when you do this, we have a very different problem. It's just the sparse data problem. If we don't have structure that constrains the way you look at things and you don't have a pre existing theory that constrains how you interpret things, then you need data to just count things, which is what we do and you need massive amounts of it, right? So the web is a boon to our field. We love the web, but it's still not enough to actually fill in 5 grams or 7 grams, right? But it turns out that unigrams or bigrams works really really well. It's remarkable how well unigrams alone works, you just take your document, you make it a bag of words. You can make all kinds of guesses about things and it works.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
OK, so.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
That's that's a cheap and dirty.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Way to do it, but it's not the only way to do it. Sometimes you need to actually ask more robust questions, so I'll tell you the truth about the way the field works. The first thing we do is try unigrams. If unigrams gets close enough to 90%, well, we then kind of pass it off to accompany to worry about the rest. If your games doesn't work, then we often need long distance dependencies, and here's a great example about why we need long, why we need a tree. I saw the man on the Hill with the telescope. Hi. What's the subject of the sentence? It's easy, it's I. What's the verb saw? I just want to make it really. I told you there's nothing deep here at all now. What did I? What are the subject see when we know for sure some a subject saw a man, a particular man that parts clear? Now let me ask you this, where was the man? How many people think the man might not have been on the Hill? OK, what's another? What's another interpretation of on the Hill? High on the Hill saw the man with the telescope. Perfectly valid interpretation in English, so we were ordering in English. Doesn't always constrain right. So here's where a case marking would be very nice, right? I would like to have some case marking in English. Case marking is like declination. It tells you about the tells about the grammatical role of the word. OK, now what's the value of? What's the value of the telescope? Huawei is with telescope there. Weather right I could utilize the telescope to see the man, which is probably the mean look the cleanest reading the most ready probable reading a dirty words the most probable reading is I the subject used a telescope to see a man who was on a Hill so, but agree that's the most. That's the sort of 1st. Anybody have a different first blush reading. What was yours? The man on the Hill has attempted I see good. It's actually ambiguous. I didn't just make it up for the story. It is actually ambiguous, right? So but so, here's what we know that I saw this man. I could have used the telescope to see the man or the telescope could have been. The man could have contained. Could've been holding the telescope. Right, I saw the man with the telescope on the Hill, right? There is there is there is one more which is the Hill has a telescope absolutely so it could be that it's a one of those big huge astronomical telescopes on a Hill like like down at Stanford. And I saw the man on the Hill with the telescope. Right, that one works fine. Or I saw the man while I was standing. This one actually is kind of marked. This one is this one is you can make it official, but it's kind of strange. In English I saw the man while I was on the Hill with the telescope. But that was actually kind of strained. You mean this word ordering wouldn't really allow for that, but logically you have. You have a number of different number, different possibilities. So when you get something like this, well, you can't just. Do the non word ordering, unigram stuff. You actually do need a tree structure, but we have ambiguity. So how do we this is called prepositional attack? This is called prepositional phrase attachment ambiguity. Where does the prepositional phrase attach? So I'll draw people familiar with structures like this. Does anybody not seen a parse tree before? K so remember the next question should be the complement of the set. Has everybody seen the parse tree? Are you lying now? OK, it's basically sentence diagramming, right? So so sentence goes to noun phrase verb phrase I. I'm skipping stuff in between. Saw prepositional phrase with the telescope. Noun phrase noun the man. Who was on the Hill? Now. With the telescope I mean that's it. OK, so I saw the man on the Hill with the telescope. If I want the man to be on the Hill with the telescope, I take this and I attach it to Hill. OK, and if I want if I want to be on the Hill I I put it over here. I put a prepositional phrase over here on the Hill, saw the man with the telescope. So every one of those interpretations has a different tree structure and which tree structure do you think we would choose? If I was building a system, they had to interpret that sentence. I would look through my corpus of tree structures and I would see what's the most probable attachment of on the Hill and if I don't have on the Hill, I would ask what's the most probable attachment of on the noun. And then I would ask what's the most probable attachment of with a telescope? And if I don't have with a telescope, I'd ask what's the most probable attachment of with now if I said with a big telescope that I asked for the most probable attachment of with the big noun. If I didn't have any information about with a big noun, I would look for information about within adjective noun, right? So basically I just count the past and I attach it. Attach it in the most common spot.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
OK, and that's what this says, but here's what's amazing to me, so I take a bunch of training programs, a bunch of stuff that I can count. Right, oh, I'll tell you why I tell you the problem with this. In a minute, there's a really serious problem with this, not an intellectual wanna funding problem. I take a bunch of pre existing trees that I can count over. I build a model and I build a I don't know I can use naive Bayes. I can use support vector machines. I can use maximum entropy, you can pick a machine learning technique. I take a new one. I put it in here. It makes a guess and it spits this out. OK so I have old training I have pre existing training data. I have a new sentence that new sentence goes into a parser which was trained by that training data basically accounted a bunch of stuff, counted a bunch of stuff and it spits out a tree. OK. The best handbuilt parsers in 1990 got 40 to 60% correct. This very, very stupid technique. From 1995 on, immediately got to 90% and now it's like at 9596% correct, so we sat down and we the prior generation. From the you know this famous example and machine translation. When you put in so early machine translation English to Russian, Russian to English for obvious reasons and you'd put in the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. They already know this metaphor means I'm eager to help, but I'm very tired or weak or whatever the spirit is willing in the flesh, but the flesh is weak. Or it could mean. You know, I'm sinful, right? It could mean any number of things. But you took that in, you translate it to Russian, and then you translate the Russian back and once you get is the vodka is great, but the meat is rotten. It's perfectly fine. It's uh, I mean, it makes sense why you would translate it like that, and so these hand coded rules for machine translation just didn't work. They didn't work. I don't care what you theory is. I don't care how much you want to model the mind. You did not do it. It did not work. I mean, you and I are probably going to agree that they're missing something. If they just try to use two valued logic world, right? Your response is beautiful, by the way. Very elegant. I mean, that's silly thing to say. By response, my commute responses to count things in the world right? And they're not incompatible because how you define fuzzy set membership could be from counting things in the world so, but just doing simple things like this get you get you an accuracy that's much, much, much higher, yes? Well, I use term accuracy, which is in fact a technical term will go over this in the lab. Accuracy means in the confusion matrix, which is what you said. And what's the truth and what you said. And once the truth, the diagonal is what you got right. Accuracy is officially defined as the diagonal over the whole table, but for a particular task when you're trying to pick out one thing from among many, then we use an F score in the F score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall. What will be very precise in the in the lab? Did those terms mean something to you? Yeah yeah, so we measure both false positives and false negatives mean we try to take account of where we were over generous and under generous.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
OK, so. Oh good, this is a perfect time for me to stop. Actually, let's do this slide. We can stop and then we can do more stuff in the lab. So The upshot is, handcrafted rules are brittle. Distributional information can often be a proxy for rich structure. Right large scale annotations of Rick Starcher can produce better machine learning models and those built by hand. But here's the problem with the annotation stuff, and this is. This is the fundamental downfall of the way I've described, and we do things large. Scale annotation is very expensive and time consuming, so where did we get those tree structured sentences? Well, the NSF paid $5,000,000 for five years of work, $5 back in the early 90s when it meant something. For five years of work to hand, annotate, hand, annotate human beings, annotate a million words of Wall Street Journal text. It's a wonderful resource, but what do you think that this is our? This is our major resource in parser. Our major resource on parsing is 1,000,000 words of Wall Street Journal text. It's called the Penn treebank. I always have to advertise model whenever I can. Citibank it's the major downfall of using this as our model of the way sentences are parsed. This one slightly deep so you can answer if you want. It's only Wall Street Journal, so we have solved the problem of parsing really weird like 95% if you give me Wall Street Journal to train and you asked me to parse a Wall Street Journal document, I can do it at 95% accuracy. But here's the problem and I'm definitely not selling short the problem. It's a big problem. I work on chat and on Twitter an on micro tech, so I just came back from a. Workshop on microtext atripla. If you train on the Wall Street Journal and you test on chat, you get 50%. So the fundamental downfall of the way that we do this work is the training data must be representative of the phenomenon. If the training data is not representative phenomenon, it doesn't work. Now, what's nice is the training data is often representative of far more phenomenon than the training data, but sometimes not, and so there's definitely more work to be done and we haven't solved these. Generally, if the original AI intent had come to pass, which is a general problem solver, then they wouldn't have this problem, right? They could generalize from one domain to another. We don't know how to generalize. We can count things, and if the things we counted map to the new stuff, we do really well. If not, then we fail. OK, so we'll talk later more.
