Neighbor searching a graph given a node I I want to find which other nodes are most similar to this node. And again are the main intuition that we will use is personalized page rank from Lodi to node. And from that we show this relationship. What this means is hitting times are very similar to personalized page rank except the individual node popularity of J is normalized out and now that I have written hitting times in terms of personalized page rank, I know and I know that the effect of sync notes on personalized page rank is small. We want to put similar nodes close by on disk so that we can quickly retrieve them and essentially we clustered the graph into page sized chunks and Now if the clusters are good quality than a random walk is going to mostly stay inside a cluster, leading to good computational efficiency. All the green nodes are inside the cluster. This soft robotics people and if we look at the periphery then we will see that there are a lot of machine learning and statistics people from the neighboring clusters. Now let's take one note from inside the cluster. I load this cluster into memory and I start my random walk and every time the random walk hits a new cluster. Now clearly we want to reduce the number of page faults, right and and number of page faults actually depends on how good quality their clusters are. If there are lots of cross edges, then I'm going to have more and more page faults. I am only going to compute personalized page rank on that cluster, but that will lead to poor approximation unless that cluster is completely disconnected from the rest of the graph. We basically now adding new clusters too, and as a result at any point of time we are maintaining a set of clusters. As we keep expanding our bounds keep getting tighter. We can stop when this upper bound falls below a small threshold beta, because then we know that everybody outside has very small personalized page rank and it's safe to stop. You can use this same flavor of an algorithm for personalized page rank. So first we pick a measure. We pick personalized Pagerank from a set of nodes because this has been shown in the theoretical community that this leads. This gives good local cuts around chosen seed node and our idea is that compute personalized page rank from a set of anchor nodes. And now once you have the values, assign every node to its closest anchor and each anchor basically defines one cluster. Essentially, we can compute personalized page rank using just pure power iterations. We can do that by doing joint type operation between 2 files. So what we do is we round the small probabilities to zero at any step and we show that this has bounded error and at the same time it brings down the intermediate file size in from quadratic in number of nodes to order number of edges so. In particular, personalized page rank and hitting and commute Times Now these measures are intuitive measures of similarity. We came most relevant papers about support vector machines so queries can arbitrary. And finally, there is another bit which is about where we show that RW disc actually yields better clusters than matrix, which is an in memory clustering algorithm. We also have in the second column the minimum degree of a sink node. First, we showed that turning high degree notes into sinks. It has bounded effect on personalized page rank and hitting time. We showed that this is a part of the results. It improves the number of page faults in any kind of. Search algorithm it also improves link prediction accuracy. We gave two search algorithms on a clustered external memory framework. The first one is the nuisance of high degree nodes, and often we have algorithms which are local in nature, so we have an algorithm which examines a small neighborhood around the query node and tries to answer questions. So what we want is external memory framework to represent the graph so that we can one support arbitrary queries and two we can compute many different random walk based measures on it. You start a random walk at no die and now at any step you restart this random walk with probability Alpha from the start mode I and the stationary distribution of this stochastic processes. And here again, you start a random walk from Lodi and at any step you either stop if you have hit node J or you stop with probability Alpha and Now the expected time to stop gives you the discounted hitting time from node. As I said before, high degree nodes can often cause problems for computational efficiency. You hit a high degree node and your entire neighborhood size just blows up, so the other thing is that even though in real world graphs there aren't too many high degree nodes because of the power law degree distribution, these are very easily reachable because of the small world property. Our intuition is why not just stop the random walk when it hits the high degree nodes essentially turned the high degree node into a single sink node, excuse me. Let the contribution through S is the probability of hitting S from I in Alpha discounted walk times. The personalized page rank from S2, J and the first part is smaller than one because the probability the question is is the second part going to be small.