Remember, we started with virtual access and we present it lacks two part of. The tool for segmentation and structuring of content in retro digitized dictionaries. So we have LAX one scenario and we have like 3 scenario lacks. One scenario is for digital unstructured types of dictionaries. Which is a submodule of grobet for structuring surprise, surprise, digital digitized lexical resources. And it allows parsing, extraction and structuring of text information in such resources. And start using that data model from that point on. Then you need to go into a full conversion. Infrastructure so you upload your dictionary in your custom XML format which is parsed. Then you identify basic dictionary elements defined by Alexis Data model. Let's say Headward sense definition, examples and so on, and then the whole thing is converted or your dictionary is converted to TI like 0 or something compliant with Alexis Data model and you can download it so we can just upload, download, upload, convert, download. Dictionary matrix or matrix dictionary part so. So we have, let's say two senses of noun fancy, which is something many people believe believe is false. Something that we would call lemma sense in your dictionary. We can stay on the llama level and identify just. Already ANL produced something called European Dictionary Portal, where. So a bunch of links will end up as part of linguistic linked open data clouds. So what will be presented now is grow with dictionaries, then elexis data model which is needed to unify everything. Then linking and dictionary matrix and word sense this immigration. Points in time are month 24, which is actually end of January 2020 in one year. And for the conversion tools, it's one year more so This is why we thought that it's important that we gather. As it says, LAX one infrastructure will consist of several sets of tools. Strange beast called either Matrix Dictionary or a dictionary matrix, and when I was preparing for this. It will be dictionary matrix and what we don't know it will be done.