So normally we deal with textual metadata. So increasingly people look for automated production of metadata. We do it like a natural language query. So very natural language queries into terms from that controlled vocabulary. The term just to mention there is named entity recognition, so this goes out of service is out in the web today that provide this, so wondered is quite well known from Thompson. And there's a trend towards what's called global unique identification of concepts on the web. So at scale you want to move towards more automated tradition of metadata. So obviously in the research world we work on constantly improving the accuracy of automated annotation, but it is and probably will never be 100%. So the first is you have determined the fragments of the video. For example, OK, and you'll see how how we do it very soon. Computer system can do with this afterwards, so we promote different specifications for describing metadata media objects in a structured semantic way. So basically the goal is here, of course, that there is a certain syntax that you can use and in the future on the web. And then entities mapped into a knowledge domain. So maybe the natural language query on the user interface is mapped into semantic query using the terms of the vocabulary you have chosen and what you get back is a set of relevant video fragments. Just to mention, within Media Mixer we've identified all these different types of technology needs, so things like video analysis, annotation metadata creation, blah blah. So basically online video pretty much everyone knows that the amount being created them being consumed is growing. So at whatever time I got this statistical, 78 hours of video being uploaded per minute. On mobile devices, but online mobile video viewing is definitely growing. We can extract these topics from the text. We say OK these three kingdoms of life and we know for example that Arcadia is one of those three kingdoms and we don't just annotate with the word Arcadia as I said, so we actually connect this to a global knowledge model. So there is a demo mediamixer.videolectures.net. So first of all, we do have an online community portal which is free to sign up for, and basically there are. We linked to all sorts of tutorials, presentations, demonstrators abetted technologies and we want to. Good overview. We have some short articles, or you can download the core technology set document from the tutorials, which gives an overview of all the technologies. We also have a winter school in January, so this is for students. OK, and with that thank you very much. Online online education is growing. Orbit online video based learning so again with increases in broadband. So again various things. Hoardings or opencast Matterhorn. People are looking to have instant and direct access into the parts of the lectures that are addressing the subject, so they're wanting to learn about. So we have to be able to dress in terms of video based learning how the retrieval, and also maybe we have parts of the video material. So again, we've been mentioning today, but Moocs massive open online courses across the numbers are often quite impressive in terms of the amount of users of the acquire, and there's only one other thing I want to talk about in terms of trends. Then it could be a different remix for each learner based on their particular interests and level. However, this generally doesn't fit in with how humans want to search for video content because they think in terms of concepts or events. Text. So there's a thing called the semantic gap, of course.