They are very keen about the fact that we pursue both value and innovation and will go through each. And there is a strategy formulation process based on this concept that we will see it and we. What purposes we have to understand what the users? And what kind of application out of reach we can deliver to these users to fulfill the needs? The operators, like Bruder, See Logistics as a business. They see logistics as a competitive weapon. The rest is formed by SMS. What are the user needs that we want to be fulfilled? I mean, out of the research, we could have ubiquitous ubiquitous track and trace functionality based on even communicate bottom map by moving freight items. Wow, let's try to communicate this to the average customer. Say what are you doing? It must be a divergent from the competition because we want to be new, so the new idea is clearly differentiated. We take our very innovative, ubiquitous track and trace application idea. Maybe the end guy that will have the final word on this application. This idea by looking across various things across industries across segments across the value chain till looking across the time development development. Caring about the technical feasibility. And we're innovating because we aim at all the kind of collaborative logistics and four PL and very. We are absolutely not the first ones in the last 20 years there have been a number of projects trying to do this, especially in the supply chain integration area. There being a research not only vector SCM is a research, it's not. It's graphic representation of the strategic of the value we are delivering compared to the competition you put in the epsilon axis. So let's try this me too strategy and this is what happens. OK, these are the value elements. I selected setup cost cost per use, accuracy granularity, real time tracing, customer customization, possibility and back office integration. This lack of focus there is an inconsistent strategy you go. You're saying value in a very random way. We are unable to. We could reposition ourselves to offer the best of both. Let's look across the value chain. They tend to outsource. That's one interesting element from the value chain. Transportation, even to very small carriers so. Well now it becausw ubiquity. Let's say we could really follow the cargo along all the real rules. I mean, it is easy to follow the cargo along predefined routes, but then it arrives to the land terminal and then arises the single man. Let's try to find that cargo that's difficult. And the other thing that we could add is carrier independence. That everybody could use like Skype for four course. We add new value elements. That people out there have not yet considered so ubiquity and carrier independence become important. Does it diverge from competition? Does it allow a clear and compelling tagline? Track and trace functionality that can be activated at low cost and works with any carrier along any transport route. Then global warming and in the end Bill Gates. But maybe we should start thinking about faulty value proposition. Likewise said they want some value, but we must do that through technological innovation. Richard Stevens will manage exploitation and it will be very, very concerned about Oracle taking a piece of very dead. This is not a concern of exploitation. Concern of ourselves throughout the project. OK, so we should look for a methodology that takes into account the adoption potential. Can adopt what I'm developping or what I'm thinking in this moment. Tomorrow this is the industry center of gravity. Then you have the Research Center of gravity, where you are thinking about new products, new processes, new markets, new industries. This is more or less Asian champ Terraria. I mean, many of those parts projects went into the hole and we have to avoid that. OK, that's how our goal. OK, so this one was already quoted yesterday, so I'm not going through it anymore, but value without innovation is nothing. Innovation without value even is nothing for us at least. And this is the subject of a very nice book I suggested you is from 2 professors from inside China majority. They have found their blue ocean. The principles well, my goal quickly because I'm we are not so interested in this part. But the principle is that you should move from a red ocean to a blue ocean where there is uncontested market space. I mean, instead of competing.