So the outline of the talk will be talking a little bit about this basic concepts. We will deal with. And then we will go for several examples of using knowledge technologies for network organizations, mainly in the knowledge discovering area, knowledge, mapping, knowledge sharing, knowledge, formalization and knowledge use. Flextronics actually sees the supply chain management, customer relation management, ERP systems, total quality management, which is just, you know, traditional system which are usually parallel in the company going from the operative level to the strategic level. So one of that was that there are, of course several different levels of knowledge management in a company in a huge world, like physical level of physical knowledge, resource level, corporate level, society level, and that's normally complexity arises when we go from the physical level, which is mathematically described. You will read about knowledge management and stuff. And if you just look at, for example, several implementations of what we have seen in past in past presentations in yesterday, particularly, where are they potential usage of knowledge technologies, knowledge management in the business environment is more or less divided in three chunks of services of the chunks of processes, like analyzing model is management distributed network organizations. This is 1 particular element which can be handled, but knowledge discovery knowledge storage. This is a system school so that everything had with that has to be done as a knowledge management is qualifying knowledge in databases and there is another school which is for example this one. And this is the picture you already know, so usually they write it in as a pyramid so that you will have communication, media tools, techniques, contact knowledge, and then the ultimate. So this is something which was a business process view, which is a business process view of. Then deterministic to complex before it was top down approach. Similar ways react to the environment and so on, and that means a few rules and a lot of freedom. Put very different views on what we perceived as knowledge. Undesirable or desirable consequences which came from the environment? You are trying to access something which is a business process. And when this set of results is equal to the set of goals, then the system is running very well. So when you have this of course, then what we do in knowledge management and knowledge technologies is we're trying to analyze the model, the business process, and when we have the model of the business process, then we can play a little bit with simulations, predictions and trend detection so that we know how they think is going on. Like a few tools from knowledge discovery, few tools from knowledge mapping knowledge, sharing knowledge formalisation and knowledge or some of them. Of tools which is called text garden, which is not just a set of tools for the text mining, but also something else. And those tools are mainly used to discover knowledge from the data sets from different data sets, either from from databases, regular databases to unstructured data in texts or in. Probably some minmax of the concept Maps, pattern languages and so on. If you look at the dynamic fluid fields, it means that you have. So if you just check about this network organization stuff, what we understand by that and so on. They have their own internal structure and everything else. As I said before. This thing is actually done so you put the documents inside you, do some indexing and then you do this multidimensional scaling from 10,000. Now this is philosophically incorrect because there is a part of the. 'cause right now you have no. If you are going to the web or you're going to ICT, you have no target population. We have already some personalization so that we are doing some matching based on your preferences, but what we? You don't know what is going on, but this is a process which has several elements. So approximately 2000 visits per day. And there are 638 visits from Czech Republic. And of course there is ontology based on that, which is again formalism. Consistent understanding about what is going on in the. Still building up the ontology based on the concepts you have. It's not really clear you will not find the distinguished definition about the knowledge technologies, but in any case this is something which combines together different technologies we know from the past like data mining, machine learning, decision support systems, language technology. You will find this one in Wikipedia, so this is something which adds a layer of intelligence to information technology. Those knowledge technologies are getting to the ways that this is something which provides the means for computers to understand the knowledge that is being presented by knowledge systems and so on. So here we just I just put down some real real implementations from the part of knowledge technologies like knowledge, extraction tools, ontologies you have seen two presentations already, knowledge representation formalisms, intelligent topic Max blocks, for example, groupware, document management expertise locators. Maybe I will take few words about what are the potential applications if you are using something which is an ontology, so not just like any type of ontology like. Sophisticated modeling building up smart interfaces. So this is one of the one of the potentials, so then it has this tool reality. Semantic data mining is very relevant for us so that you will do a little bit more. I will just mention the business intelligence tools, Cargo intelligence, project intelligence, so everything that we're doing is intelligence, something X intelligence.