[0.0s - 29.0s]
First foundation will be done by me, and then the Left's presentation be done by your. A colleague of mine from the Institute. So you're a is actually the author of the service he will present of. How do we? Analyze, match and do different things with. The competence is based on the sources we can get on the web for European science. Now this presentation will be a little bit more theoretic, so because it was meant to show an overview. So how do we actually join those traditional communities together so the community of researching AI Soren, knowledge technologies? And the other one dealing with the network organizations. There are several slides inside we have seen already on the tutorial yesterday and representations and so on. So I will probably just skipping them just to make you an insight of what is the weirdest things which you have seen fits in.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the outline of the talk will be talking a little bit about this basic concepts. We will deal with. So network organizations, knowledge management and knowledge technologies. Then we will see how this knowledge technologies for network realizations can be put in, so how what model do we think it's might be visible? And then we will go for several examples of using knowledge technologies for network organizations, mainly in the knowledge discovering area, knowledge, mapping, knowledge sharing, knowledge, formalization and knowledge use.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So this is something which was a business process view, which is a business process view of. Slightly any kind of organizations, but this is just a model. One of the models there are several of them. This is model which is based on cybernetics, right? So synthetical conceptualization. Meaning that you will have several basic processes and you can dig in and have several more, and the games have several more so typical traditional calm down. Approach.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Now, if you look in this same picture. Through a knowledge management or to knowledge. Process intensive view. You will find something like this. Because mostly. In organizations there is no hierarchy in exchanging, building up and so on. Knowledge Becausw, knowledge sharing knowledge, building knowledge use is mostly non heretical and without the rules. Basically those things means that you cannot code that in a sense of your system or in the sense of supply chain management system and so on. You are just dealing with two things. One is the real. Leaving of the organization, so how the information going through how the knowledge is coming out when it's going through, and so on, and something which is of course formal view which is imposed by the management of the organization. So that's a totally different view on something which is a structure and higher.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The next thing, of course, you have seen that already, is that the network organizations just add some more complexity on the picture you have seen before because in network organizations you will have physically dispersed units, usually in different area, usually with different background, usually with different cultural different SoC, different final goals and so on. South you will have more complex problem to solve.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So if you just check about this network organization stuff, what we understand by that and so on. What is the most important that those units we're dealing with are mostly autonomous units and they have their own goal, their own aim, and they have their own strategy. They have their own internal structure and everything else. Then this is geographically distributed. As I said before. And that those organizations are usually heterogeneous, which means that they are not the same organizations joined in the cluster, but mostly the organization which complement each other. So there are network organizations of. Let's say universities, research institutes, companies, then maybe some regional agencies and so on, so totally different specter of organizations that have to collaborate to each other. And if you remember this slide of knowledge transfer inside those things right and you compose this to something which is a network organization about which you don't know much, then this thing becomes very complicated to be managed or to be looked at, analyzed in traditional way. You cannot do that. Top down. It's very, very difficult.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And that's of course took us to something which is self organized systems. Self directed systems, self regulated systems, emergent organizations and so on. So the things you have. Heard about in the second presentation with multi agent Systems and the things you are also dealing with. So now we're going to another direction which is from the top down to something which is a bottom up right.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So different approach. And of course, there's also a timeline dimension. Which is quite crucial. Because in something which is loosely coupled distributed organizations. You don't have the huge time slot as it is in a traditional organization for the traditional location you will know if you join company Cloquet, IBM, like Microsoft, like Fiat like BMW and so on. You probably know what will happen in next few years if you join something which is a network organization then you don't nothing. Then you just know that you are dealing some business that probably today and tomorrow will be something and then you don't know what will happen. And usually that means that in network organizations, the system is trying to evolve, right? It's trying to evolve. Coming to some particular time scale from a different time frame, when something happened when this organization is not really the right one too. To be able to answer all the questions from the market or from the servant. So now there are two ways what this organization can do, or less self organize system can do either this self organized system dies. Or it transfers to something differently and proceed on. So this is, let's say the traditional traditional complexity systems view on the evolution of organizations and those cycles are just going up, going up, going up, going up, and typically each system by itself. It takes care about about himself about how to survive, and typically this system. These systems are not dying, but they make several changes in their internal structure in their internal rules, and so on and so on. And as you can imagine, this also happened to all the traditional systems which are in organizations also with the knowledge management.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Now something about knowledge technology, so knowledge management is something which is a. It was a huge hype in 1990s. It transferred a little bit. Now is growing up again a little bit 'cause there are some technologies that can support this knowledge management. Before it was like thinking about that. This is probably knowledge. Minton student, probably a new complete new structure of knowledge officers, chief knowledge officers, knowledge workers and so on. With organization which is already there right now, this is not true. The truth is that each particular participant or each particular process business process as itself could be a member of a knowledge organization. Cause if a process by itself like that was that picture evolves and learns through the environment, it actually perceives some knowledge from the environment and give it back in a different structure or different. Different. Functionality is that it has. So with the emergence of knowledge technologies and they say the possibility that knowledge technologies can do a lot of work based on the new technologies that came out like Internet and so on. This type of the technologies became very, very interesting. Now what that means very interesting is that there are a lot of applications all around which can use knowledge, technologies, aspects and this is just let's say some of the definitions about what this knowledge technologies could be. It's not really clear you will not find the distinguished definition about the knowledge technologies, but in any case this is something which combines together different technologies we know from the past like data mining, machine learning, decision support systems, language technology. This knowledge, sharing tools and other similar tools which are dealing with knowledge. Then there is another interesting. You will find this one in Wikipedia, so this is something which adds a layer of intelligence to information technology. So this is the one of the potential definition of knowledge technologies. But in any way. What is the final goal of AI actually was that there is a computer who actually understands the world who actually understands what he's doing. He has some internal intelligence so. Those knowledge technologies are getting to the ways that this is something which provides the means for computers to understand the knowledge that is being presented by knowledge systems and so on. So here we just I just put down some real real implementations from the part of knowledge technologies like knowledge, extraction tools, ontologies you have seen two presentations already, knowledge representation formalisms, intelligent topic Max blocks, for example, groupware, document management expertise locators. So everything can be seen as a parts of the system of the set of tools which are actually knowledge technology.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Tools. And of course, as we said before already, so there was some knowledge management hype which actually in that time didn't perceive knowledge technologies has to be the one to solve the problems. So actually, this knowledge technology definition was meant to be something like, yeah, OK, so new, a new layer in the in the formal description of the company and this new layer will help to preserve and we have to. Will support the preservation and the creation of new knowledge in the company. So that was the major idea at the.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Winning. And that's there. Was seen like this so that you will have something which is a traditional. Flextronics actually sees the supply chain management, customer relation management, ERP systems, total quality management, which is just, you know, traditional system which are usually parallel in the company going from the operative level to the strategic level. So having some tools having some organizational cultural rules, and of course the vision, strategy and management which is imposed in those rules, and so on, and knowledge management. Simply becomes. Kept to that so to pillar to cover everything and they said, oh, that is really really interesting thing and everybody has to do has to deal with the knowledge management cap. So how do we cover everything which is already there? 'cause again at the beginning it was the traditional top down view was not bottom up.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And that also implies several several conclusions. So one of that was that there are, of course several different levels of knowledge management in a company in a huge world, like physical level of physical knowledge, resource level, corporate level, society level, and that's normally complexity arises when we go from the physical level, which is mathematically described. Something which is society level which is totally self organized. They have no sense in the meaning of that.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Complete science. And based on that, this is also the famous picture from the guys from that time so that there are four major processes in knowledge management, late knowledge generation, which development knowledge and sphere knowledge needed you. So we need to book. You will have. You will read about knowledge management and stuff. You will find this. Famous Circle how knowledge involves from one part to another and goes on and goes on and goes on.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So what why I'm talking about this knowledge management stuff? Because actually it is a kind of. Only right now the only concept that covers all those extra so tools. Attitudes roles. Um, social incentives and everything which has to be there to, let's say 2. Try to understand how the knowledge is important for each particular organization. And if you just look at, for example, several implementations of what we have seen in past in past presentations in yesterday, particularly, where are they potential usage of knowledge technologies, knowledge management in the business environment is more or less divided in three chunks of services of the chunks of processes, like analyzing model is management distributed network organizations. This is 1 particular element which can be handled, but knowledge discovery knowledge storage. And training and knowledge transfer. And here are some, let's say, tools that are written there. So you see that those real implementations can be handled with knowledge management tools.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Now this is also just it's very important. So what happened in the meantime from 1990 till now is that there were several they came up with several different views on knowledge management again. So based on the system, school, cryptographic school, engineering school and so on, and so on, so each particular scientist that came out with a new idea or new viewer knowledge management which usually came from different background, set up a new vision of knowledge management like qualifying knowledge in databases. This is a system school so that everything had with that has to be done as a knowledge management is qualifying knowledge in databases and there is another school which is for example this one. Special school focusing mostly on social communities like work and relaxation spaces, which were there, you know, if you are reading. Those books from as a successful case studies, then will hire find this. Crossroads inside the company which everybody meets, drink a coffee talk exchange knowledge an informal way, and so on. And this is bursting at the innovation, creativity and so on and so on. So several schools came out with. Sensei quite the same goal but with different ideas.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And of course, this. For this first four slides, just get get a little bit more complex. So that they start to talk about. OK, So what kind of knowledge we are trying to manage? So what is the think we're managing? Is it just you know former conversation, or is something more and then they say OK, so there are several levels of knowledge like single type knowledge which is the knowledge we know when you are coding. You're doing this. Embodied knowledge, which is we all know, subconsciously everything what I'm doing right now. Here with my hands and so on, is my embodied knowledge. 'cause when you're talking here instead of me, your gestures will be different. And neither me neither. You don't know where we learn that, right? So it's just came out with you so and how to walk. How to talk? How to run? How to drive a car? Everything is more like embodied knowledge and then we have the knowledge we usually understand as knowledge which is in brain knowledge. So something you have been. Learned the school from the books from the computer, so something which is tangible, which is something you can you can pick up and say OK, so this is this I can understand. And there is another level which which came out recently. It is this social knowledge, knowledge of the SoC so that I am behaving differently in some situation, like you check for example. So if. If my team wins checks in hockey, then you know I'm different. Like you, I'm for seven different expectations also. So society knowledge is again something which is totally complex, and again you could have if you look at this knowledge right, you will have something which is we called an explicit knowledge and something which is called the tacit knowledge. The exit is this one you can. Qualify in some sense and transfer to another place and then the other guy or the other place will take up and took this knowledge out of it. Building up, learning up and know the same model as you have. Put it into some qualifying sense. The other one, the status one is something you cannot qualify, is just that it is somewhere you don't know why it is there. You don't understand actually, but you are just using this type of knowledge and you're just learning. So everything which is actually supposed to be. Related to the SoC, everything which is related to your, your beliefs, your internal States and so on. This is everything. Is that knowledge you cannot? Preserve this knowledge in the company and if the other guy will come, will probably not have the same knowledge on that asset level.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And this is the picture you already know, so usually they write it in as a pyramid so that you will have communication, media tools, techniques, contact knowledge, and then the ultimate. Thing is, wisdom, right? So wisdom is when you learned really with the real case studies that this is not very good to touch. The very hot plate cause you will get burnt. You can read this in the book, but it's not wisdom.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And then of course, based on all these expectations and finding out the new knowledge world definition came out. So this is that was said by one scientist in the United States three years ago. And he changed a little bit the definition of knowledge management. That's actually what is important in knowledge. Management is not the internal processes, but it is important. The aim of knowledge management and this aim is mainly related to. The fact that if you. Want to run or to control something which is a process? Then you have to be in this world. And in general you have to be prepared for something which is unpredictable. So that's the knowledge management. So how to be prepared to react to unpredictable? Elements.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And this is the major shift, so it goes from knowledge resources to knowledge processes. So not more focusing on the person who is having something they had to walking around the company, but on the knowledge process. Because knowledge process is the thing which actually build up complete system of knowledge management. Then deterministic to complex before it was top down approach. Everything has to be formalized. You know, digging in making beautiful reference models for this and that, modeling and stuff. Now the rule is that everything this has to be done is having a few rules and a lot of freedom, because then you are at the edge of cars and if you when you are at the age of cars then there is a creativity. Otherwise, as it was shown by Professor Magic. Or life system? Yeah, yeah. Professor Magic was you. Can the system, the life the living system can have three states can at the end have three states, either totally blank, which is crashed either totally so 111 stable stable system or something which is just changing and leaving and so on. In both sense, if you have something which is a stable system. Stable system is OK for the this current. This current influences from the environment if the business environment next moment change like. Likelike.com balloon boosting's in five years ago and you are not prepared because the system is just not looking for another possibility that another another potential developments. Then you are dead in both 2 cases they're dead. But not in the middle one, because in the middle one is always leaving, always trying to get better ways. Similar ways react to the environment and so on, and that means a few rules and a lot of freedom. So just a background. You know when you have a kids and then you put kids in the kindergarten and there are just few rules right. Few rules is that you cannot go out to this window to this window or to this door. You have to stand up right, not not jumping around, but everything else is up to you. And the kids you know except for you, because you are sitting right here and listen to me. And this is another opposing rules which is which has been opposed to you by the society, by the cultural and so on. Are totally creative, right? You are sitting here and you're listening to me and you're believing me and I'm lying to you. No, there's a difference. Then the change the move from the cognitive factors to the social factors again from this M braint philosophy. So philosophy of of. Of qualifying knowledge in the sense of cognitive system. To something which is different cause if. I have a notion in my head about the chair and here is there sitting another guy from from South Africa. Having a notion which are telling to him, why don't you pick up your chair and take take your child to another place and put in there. She will say I cannot do that. 'cause my chair has only one leg. This is what I know about the chair. Chuck has only one leg in his culture. Right, and this one leg chair cannot stay by itself there. For me it's totally, totally normal it if I bring. If I take this chair and bring it to another place if we stay here, it will not fall out right? So those are different aspects which actually. Put very different views on what we perceived as knowledge. And this one from know how to creativity and innovation. You all know this. Experiments about when the system is intelligent and so on. The system is always stupid. If the system cannot find another way. The intelligence system will be creative and will be innovative. It will not do know how because know how means that you are going to the factory in the factory. The guy will tell you OK. So what you have to do all day is speaking this glass and put this another place and do that 100 * 1000 times and that's what you have to do. This is not intelligent right? This is just that it is not how. Because this guy told you that you have to do it in this way, not in this way. This is not the right way. You have to do it like this and this is now how so we get know how and then you do it all day, years after years and then you come home and you are thinking about how this glass was. Not moved in the right position, but maybe a little bit there a little bit down. You haven't been thinking about what the hell is wrong that I've had to do this process all time over and over again. And this is the typical transition between the all thinking and the new thinking. So it should be something which has to deal with adaptation. As I said before, adaptation to new. Undesirable or desirable consequences which came from the environment? Now this is very interesting definition, so I went to the web, find it tradition of the creativity and this is the definition. The crazy things that work. It's creativity, right?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
OK, so this is something about the basic basic Tariel. It's a basic.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Aspects. Now we will check we will see we will look at it how this how we will relate something which is a network organization, knowledge technologies. So this is something which is a view to network organizations you know at the beginning you have something which is. Organizational level probably will have groups or companies, so different levels of granularity. But then this group. Somewhere, of course, is composed by particular individuals. Usually we call them individuals, or we can call them agents. If we are thinking about something which is not living thing. And then of course, each of those individuals have some. Some competence is knowledge, beliefs, values and so on. So you have several levels. First one is this organizational level, then the other level is something like group level. The third one is individual level. Now if you look at the individual how it reacts in different levels, it reacts totally differently. Becausw when I'm here, I'm by myself sitting in a room, being very satisfied and then and then, and then I get married and then I get kids. Then I move to some group right? And then I'm not sitting there and being satisfied by myself because I have to understand also the others which are there in the group and I have to cooperate. Right, if I'm not cooperating, they're not part of the group. And then of course I go further on and then I got the job and then I I have to build up a house and then I have to go into the system. And then I came to something which is organizational knowledge and organizational view. And of course, I'm. Not sitting there with my fans being satisfied neither I'm talking to my kids and my friends and so on. Now I'm fighting with the system and there's a typical typical view. No. If you look in this picture. In a way. That you will say OK, So what is here? What is there? What is up there? You will find it here at the individual level. What is the most important thing is what I am as me. Here, the most important things, how am I able to socialize? How am I able to connect? And you remember those picture I've showed you at the first presentation, which has several. Say EQ, emotional intelligence and network intelligence right here. We're still EQ here. The EQ is more important. And up there, the ankle become more and more important. And then if you look at each particular company then you will find out that here you're looking at the individual as a knowledge resource. Somebody who has some abilities who has something which can be supported by something we called knowledge mapping. But if you just have this information about what is there in your company, you don't know how this company is living, what is happening inside the organization? You don't know nothing. You just know that there is a guy knowing alot of things and there's another guy knowing a lot of things. You want to know how this segregation is breeding. You want to see how this goes on, how the knowledge goes from one place to another place. Who are the best best creativity guys? Who are the best innovative guy scored the best groups? Were the not so good groups and so on. And this is something that has to deal with social networking. So if you combine those three things together so knowledge map, so seeing what sources you have, knowledge sources, how they live in a group. And then impose organizational rules, which are you cannot go out to the door and cannot jump out of the window. Then you'll have a comprehensive view on what is your organization all about. Now, if you distinguish those three things together, and.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
OK, So what then we have to do? You see will say OK, so for each of these particular elements I can find out several activity processes. And for each of these activity processes. I could support, could I support those activity processes with different knowledge technologies? And then you can find out that there is some mapping that in particular elements you have have some mapping, which means that there are knowledge technologies which are very very suitable. For managing network organizations. And now.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
I will see some of them. So what? Is also very important is that with knowledge technologies you are usually going from both of us, not from the top down. So usually with the things we are having, we are modeling. We're trying to access and so on. We are dealing with the real data and we're trying to devise a model we're not going to deep down structuring restructuring system into something which at the end could not cover the lower activity process level. As you remember, the presentation from E4 was actually showing a part of this element, so that you will have something which is a. Divided with this process level, which is structured again in the company, so remember the upper level. This is structured by the company. This is group level and this is individual level.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So in all three elements you have been seen in that in that social social networking, knowledge mapping and so on. You are trying to access something which is a business process. This is what you want to manage. In fact, either in the level of company or in the level of activity. And of course this is just a picture to show you how these things looks like actually so. You will have some inputs and outputs and you impose this process, methods, knowledge, data and tools. And you have those disturbances from the environment from which you have according to the new map. Knowledge management para Digam have to be aware of have to be prepared to react on them. And then what you do is you are measuring outputs and inputs with data mining tools with either with web mining text, Mannix. I don't know what are the resources based on resources you are measuring this stuff. And then you are trying to force to control the system so that at the end. At the end you achieve this reference set of goals. So here you will say OK, I want this system to do this. And when this set of results is equal to the set of goals, then the system is running very well. I'm not talking about something which is a very simple process I'm talking about. There is something which could be also very complex process like government, country, SoC and so on for each particular. A business for each particular process, you can divide the same element. So what you do is you measure the differences between input and outputs and you are assessed them according to the reference set of tools, and you find that there is some difference. And those difference? You use those difference, then two schedule it with this controlling system and impose different methods to use different data or different tools or different knowledge to get at the end. This set of the results. What is the most important thing? Of course, is that here you are learning and this is actually the most important element of something which is called knowledge management. You have approaches. You have no idea what is going on, but you are trying to learn and this learning is actually a modeling, so you try to get this model out of it.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So when you have this of course, then what we do in knowledge management and knowledge technologies is we're trying to analyze the model, the business process, and when we have the model of the business process, then we can play a little bit with simulations, predictions and trend detection so that we know how they think is going on. We can predict what will happen in the future. Or we can also find out some trends in some strange trends which can alert you that something is not very, very good with the process.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
OK, so this is just a basic fact now.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
There are several examples.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
I want to show.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Like a few tools from knowledge discovery, few tools from knowledge mapping knowledge, sharing knowledge formalisation and knowledge or some of them. I will skip because they were already presented in more detail. Some of them I will.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Put a little bit more emphasis on so. Here are some knowledge management tools or knowledge technology stores we are using at the Institute. Most of them have been shown to you already. Some of them you will see later on in the presentation. More or less, there are several tools you can impose to different activities to be able to manage different process.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
This.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And for this knowledge discovery, what we have for the Institute is something which we call the library. Of tools which is called text garden, which is not just a set of tools for the text mining, but also something else. And those tools are mainly used to discover knowledge from the data sets from different data sets, either from from databases, regular databases to unstructured data in texts or in. In pictures and so on. So this is what you have seen yesterday in the.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
In the presentation. Those are just the basic functionality blocks, so this is what is there and the beauty of these tools is that they are free. This is an open source so we can download it. You can use it for your own purposes. Of course, if you know what type of tools to impose to a particular problem.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So this is just a few facts about this test garden so that you will know what you have to deal with.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
And also the other information about where to find it and how could you connect the results when it takes out into other platforms which you might be using already. Knowledge mapping. Um, there are several misunderstandings about knowledge mapping. 'cause there is knowledge mapping. There is knowledge map. There is no deposit Ori, that is knowledge space, so different. Terms have been mixed a little bit, but mostly what you have to know is that knowledge map of mapping is approaches. Knowledge Map is a result of the process. Is the visualization tool. Knowledge is pozza. Tori is a database in which you are storing it and the knowledge space is a model that describes dynamics of knowledge.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
You will see later.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Some examples.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Those are some of the things you already know. Probably some minmax of the concept Maps, pattern languages and so on. So semantic networks, relation diagrams, knowledge, landscapes, those are all the tools which fits to knowledge mapping.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
There are some implementations, so where this knowledge mappings are usually or can be used or are used so from Internet conversation servers Group where two knowledge structure is veterans concept structure, ontology development so thing.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
You have seen already. There are several types of knowledge or information you have to have in order to be able to map this knowledge of different success. Sociological data to the personal essence.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
And stuff. This is just to show you the. How this looks like an entity relationship diagram, so it's a kind of complex model.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
And this is a visualization. So of knowledge map. So this is what you have seen yesterday and this is what you will be seeing today. So by the way, this is the knowledge map of the complete 6th Framework Programme, so all the projects are here. So this is. This is why this is so small, right? So each particular dot here is one of the research projects and those are the areas of research. And here are, I think 6 thousands or forgot how many project listed.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
This is another map which is the knowledge structure map showing what are the relations between different knowledge chunks, so different elements, different domains.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Knowledge nativity map. This is what you have seen yesterday, so how is 1 one particular node? No particular knowledge resource connected to another knowledge source?

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Knowledge carrier flow map. So this is very interesting. Experiments which are going right now so they try to look at the knowledge landscape as a dynamic fluid filled so. If you look at the dynamic fluid fields, it means that you have. But then pull right with water and there is some water coming in and some water is coming out an in between. There are some obstacles right? So if you combine those to the paradigm of knowledge, which means that when the knowledge comes out there is a creativity is growing, bursting and knowledge goes on. There is when the knowledge is used an in between their obstacles because you have to transfer this knowledge. This knowledge has to come from here to there. To this particular path, so this is one of the visualization they're trying to get based on the dynamic fluid fields and mathematics which is behind it's very.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Interesting experiment. Knowledge development map so that you can visualize how through time how particular concept is changing. So you'll see that this concept is changing quite a lot, and this one is quite stable.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Then you have something which is a knowledge asset map. This is also ours actually. So this is kind of a concept contextual diagram so that you will try to look at this particular world. Leistung. Sly Stone is. Something in the context of much bigger graph which leistung. It's something from law, fine. I know this is law. Service is service provider. Huh? Because you have leistung over grief on until battlized unk. Clients OK, so there is some, so this is this is actually visualization of German law. OK, so that's this is one. I don't know one part of it. Delivery yeah.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Something. And there are several other visualizations like this one. Probably you know. This one you will see later on. This is how we visualize. Thousands of documents in one A4 screen. How you group them? This again is automatically generated semantic net from the text, which you also seen yesterday, so there are several visualizations for knowledge mapping and this is this 3D we have flown yesterday over.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Knowledge map. So the tool we are using again it is free. You can download it from. Here is a document Atlas. That you have seen that yesterday in operation. So actually you can do the visualization in 2D and now right now also in 3D. You put in documents alot of documents and then what you will get out is you will get a knowledge map of those documents. Yeah. Online only or is it now you have to download it and then you have to run it. It's not a service service is there in IST World Portal you have seen you will see Lester later on. But this is just a service based on the data which is on the database. So if you want to play then you have to download it. Yes.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
This is just maybe a little bit of the approach, but it was again described yesterday in more detail, so how? This thing is actually done so you put the documents inside you, do some indexing and then you do this multidimensional scaling from 10,000. Dimensional diagram first 100 into 2 but you know better than me probably and then at the end you will get results which is 2D diagram showing this context landscape and where you put particular elements so that you will know where it fits too.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Knowledge sharing, so knowledge sharing actually is more or less. Two way exchange of knowledge, which means two way learning. So I'm teaching you you are teaching me this is knowledge sharing. I'm sharing my knowledge to you and you are sharing your knowledge to me. This is why the basic process is learning the basic processes knowledge transfer. Now this is philosophically incorrect because there is a part of the. Um the. Electro they say that this is not that knowledge is transferred, but the other part is sending knowledge is constructed. Based on the other thing which is going between. Now. Of course, what is here very important is that with this ICT tools you can do a lot. And in a different way and for sure personalized approach to learning. 'cause right now you have no. If you are going to the web or you're going to ICT, you have no target population. So you're covering all the subjects, all levels, all types.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Education so I will just show.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
How how we look at it and what we have done so also inequality in this virtual learning portal. We have already some personalization so that we are doing some matching based on your preferences, but what we? What we understand is knowledge transfer. Is that knowledge transfer is not just having some data or some book or something and put it somewhere there too and don't care about and you don't. You don't understand. You don't know what is going on, but this is a process which has several elements. First of all, there is a content with some context which has to be. Transferred with methods and tools. With a little a lot of motivation element cause if there is no motivation, there is no process. With the guiding so the experts, the one who is building knowledge to into anothers or transferring knowledge has to do some guiding. There should be a very clear goal. And the monitoring. So those are basic elements of something which is called learning or training.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Now if he wants to do. Personalization or matching then you are matching those basic elements to something you call. Basic elements of the particular individual so particular individual has background knowledge, has communication characteristics in his learning styles. And if you take this into consideration and you have on the other side this elements, and you do the matching, then you can do personalization personalization of learning. So that's the model which is. Implemented in VLC. But we have not used all potential possibilities, but we have focused ourselves in. Five groups, so no, all individuals but five learning groups for which we are doing the.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
Finalizacion this is this actually training site, so if you will be invited you will go in and then you can play.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Deal with. This is also you have seen already. Let me just send statistics so this is what we have right now. So approximately 2000 visits per day. 150 from her third and yeah. And there are 638 visits from Czech Republic.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Knowledge formalizations. So very theoretical. There are several standards which are there conceptual? Some of them you already know because they're old. Some of them are new. You have heard yesterday about him ML yesterday. You have heard about psych and psych language yesterday.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Hey. Then there are several formats which are against standardized formats which has to be taken for consideration, like Keef or KBC rule ML. So there are references you can check it and you can learn more.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
That's what is there. There are lots of initiatives which are not standard yet but are related to what we're talking right now, and this is a part of knowledge technologies. So you have to know them so so extend.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
This is the old picture because this stuff evolved and yesterday you've seen before yesterday. I've seen one yesterday I've seen another one, which is probably the most relevant, and this one is old. Let's say half a year.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
And of course there is ontology based on that, which is again formalism. And you've heard a lot about what is the ontology and so on. I want to say I want to show I want I want to tell a little bit stressful it with why. Actually we will develop it right? So if there is something which is a network organization, why do who I do need the anthology? Why the hell on the earth? You need anthology for the network organization? 1st and the most important thing is that. That that you will have. Consistent understanding about what is going on in the. Uh huh. Consistent understanding to know what is going on in the network organization so that everybody which we're sitting here we know what we're talking about. If we not agree what we're talking about and we don't have the same context in our mind, then we're talking, you know, like. Me to somebody else and you to somebody else. And there is no agreement. So first of all, this is a kind of vocabulary known kind of a common language, a kind of a common rules, a kind of a common background on which we can communicate. Or computers can communicate. So This is why actually we develop it. And then of course when you have it then you have one. You can do a lot of things based on that. You can develop several tools to support and so on. But first of all you have to, we have to agree about what we're doing and this is the most crucial thinking ontologies right now because everybody are building their ontologies. If I build my ontology on forestry an you build another mythology and forestry and your view on forestry different than mine then. We haven't helped anybody right? So that's the problem. That was also the problem in Framework 6 becausw everybody. Each project has somewhere some parts, some word about building ontology, and there are a lot of ontologies coming out. Number of them which are not integrated which are not aligned, which has no nothing to do with something which is a common sense. And This is why we think, and This is why this psych stuff was presented yesterday, because this is something which has been agreed between different scientists and is actually covering this upper leg.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Love technologies.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
This is what I want, so wants to want to show you because that slide was not presented yet, so there are. What the hell Ontology is right? So it could be anything what is written here. It could be in any of those forms. Entology could be also that something which will will write down in a graph and put here on the table and said this is what we agree about. And if this graph can be understandable by the computer, then we have the ontology.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
This is 1, so the anthology can be built into way. First of all that you have something which is a manual approach so that the somebody who is an expert sit down and codified it. But you can also use a lot of resources which are somewhere on the web to build up the cytology automatically. And of course you are merging those two things together in something which is a common ontology at the end. So there are two processes.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
How to build it up? You have several things you have to understand, so it's the ontology. Building is just one of the process. Then when I told you have then you have to maintain it. So because the knowledge evolves also the ontology of. Also we have several techniques to do.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
Let you are managing deontologists at the end because you are deleting you updating, you are doing something on it.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
So there a lot of processes.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
And then of course what you have. You have a lot of ontologies which have to be considered when you are trying to build it something. So first of all, if you do something on the ontologies, then first try to find out what ontologies are there already and then maybe use them reuse them and build it for yourself or update it on someone so those are just some of them.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
This is what we have built in the in in Nicollet, and this is just the upper part of the ontology, so the upper part of theology is this one and the concept this concept then, and the next level is integrated in more concepts in more subconsious so very very complex thing. And this ontology actually describes everything about network organizations.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
So it's quite complex.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
The tool we have again you can download it here. It is a builder automatically so to help you to build semiautomatically ontology from the text. So the line of automatic ontology building. So we have documents. Then this tool we have.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
Still building up the ontology based on the concepts you have. The thing that the system finds inside the documents. It's very interesting tool I I suggest to try it because it's very interesting and it is very nice to play with it.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
This is what I will skip.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
There is again the tool you have also seen yesterday. So how do we classify them the documents to existing ontologies? So if there is an ontology and you want to classify those documents to that ontology or you want to tag documents based on the ontology, then you can use those tools which is called on to classify and it is available. In this link.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
Then I will skip psych.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
'cause you have seen yesterday's psych already.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
No, just basic facts. Maybe I will take few words about what are the potential applications if you are using something which is an ontology, so not just like any type of ontology like. Sophisticated modeling building up smart interfaces. Smart interface means that you will ask smart questions. For example, very relevant problem we are dealing right now in one of those projects. In the four example is that. You will have, let's say, a bill of material. What is Bill of materials? Bill of Materials is a tree of all materials. We need to build something right? So a car has to four wheels and has a driving this and everything else. Now, if you describe those elements with with. Attributes and you put those elements in an ontology. So that means that the system will now water dependencies so that you can then later on ask the question. OK, so I don't want to. Build up the car which is suitable for German routes. I want to build up the car which is suitable for cross country. Right, so this is the question you will ask and then you will have a different bill of materials because the system will know. That there is that there should be a different different will that there should be a different breaking system that there should be 4 wheel drive and so on and so on. South this is the thing. This is the added value of something which is a very complex and good ontology so. So this is one of the one of the potentials, so then it has this tool reality. So we have seen virtual reality yesterday. Semantic data mining is very relevant for us so that you will do a little bit more. You will get a little bit more information and. At the end you can ask the question to the computer. You can ask the question why is it so? So not just gather results but also the explanation like in the old expert systems.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
Knowledge juice, just few of them. I will just mention the business intelligence tools, Cargo intelligence, project intelligence, so everything that we're doing is intelligence, something X intelligence. So you will see the project intelligence. Presentations right now the Business Intelligence stores are the ones you are using to access information about. Hidden rules, hidden connections, and everything else. So hidden patterns which are in the data. And there is a project we will probably start, which is a cargo intelligence. The idea would be that we would use the data from the. From all the cargoes around Europe. To to predict in advance where are the best potential way to come from A to B? And to preserve the environment and so.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
And there is. One interesting project we have made for the for the marketing for the big retail shop in Slovenia. So they ask us here is the. Here is the data set of of the customers in the club who had been buying in that time. This and this and this and that. Could you please find out. Interest groups and we just dig in and we find out several interesting groups so that we know that the guy who is participating in this group will probably buy or is interesting to buy those types of elements. And there is, I like very much one of the one of the one of the groups which is. I need to find it. Which is this one? So this is a group and I will read it down and you will tell me what is the target group so. Kids drink. Kids fruit prepared kids food. Diapers on. This is the. Personal hygiene stuff and so on. Cleaning stuff and so on so on. So this is just I've read just one of them now I read the second part of in beer beer. Beer. Wine. This is today for just for Father's Day. If you have a kids just today for you, a box of berries, you know 10% cheaper or something.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
So this can be done. Then the other one was supply chain prediction, so the idea was that we have got the for the one year. Past one year, the data about the consumption of of oil for each particular tank. So each gas station has several tanks and there is sensor inside and this sensor measured each 10 minutes. How much is there? How much of this of the oil is in there and they are there and the question from those from this oil company was could we predict for one week in advance what would be the consumption so that they can they can optimize the supply chain for that and this is you see this is the. This is what we have. Calculated so the red points are the calculated prediction. And the this was the actual the actual cost. So what came out at the end is that this huge supply chain group. Reduced their internal stocks. For 30% I don't know how much money is that, but apparently a lot so that can be done. A very interesting experiment. And that's it. I think I will finish here because it's enough. So if you have any questions then I will answer. Otherwise your is the next one. Tools. Governance. Knowledge base. 'cause specially in business intelligence tools there is quite common problem. You started up got a lot of data inside, but we've got a messy business incubator. So yes. You know? Government. Things or. Methodology how to deal? So in general, what is our approach is that? When you Dick in such a problem then you have to calculate the cost. The calculate of costs of maintenance of that kind of problems have been addressing right now. So what we say or what we do? Is that we are trying to build up. Completely automatic system. Which will neglect the problems. We're not dealing with those kind of problems we're trying to pull them away. Knowing that probably the results coming up from the system or analytics or anything or knowledge discovered something else will be. Let's make sure I say 80% accuracy, but still because there is a huge amount of data because it is a huge amount of knowledge or something. You are not losing the main picture. And this is the tradeoff. Otherwise there are we are in, I think in two projects which are dealing with this problem. So problem of how to manipulate. The ontology is how to manipulate something, which is a formalized description knowledge. And there are a lot of problems how to do that. Their last eclipse, how to solve them for example. We are using Pagerank mechanism. For example in the web so that you will go. For example, if you have $1 in the other one and you have a concept here, another concept, and they don't know whether these two concepts are equal or not, you can do it by simple. Go to the Google an ask the bedroom so that you will see that this concept is relevant and this one is not so relevant so that you can just send it to just mix them. This is why there are several tools and the project which is dealing with this is called swing. So if you go to Google and check for. Swingers like swing like dance right? And there are some of the. Deliverables which are public. And in one I think there is this. There is a set of potential mechanisms how to solve this problem. So so how to merge? How to manipulate? How to evolute the something which is a formula that is my controller and so on. Was that the answer or yeah? But it is a problem. Yes, it's not simple. It's time already over.
