[0.0s - 29.0s]
So I'm going to tell you about a method of qualitative parameter inference. So it's not like start with an introduction and the motivation to as to why we be interested in such a tool. So parameter estimation techniques typically consist of two things, likelihood or cost function, with which we try to measure how well or badly we are able to recreate a set of observations using our model and. Distribution of parameters. And Secondly, an optimization routine with which we try to minimize the cost or maximize likelihood.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
However, this traditional technique. Can fail for certain types of data. I'm where we can often converge to sub optimal hits and an example is given here with the black dots drawn from a lottery resume. And a trajectory of our model which has been fitted with certain parameters which only captures the mean behavior of the system is a qualitatively unacceptable solution. And we'll show how our method is able to derive parameters that give rise to. So the tree behavior or even chaotic behavior in such a way that if we are able to get close enough to the optimal solutions of the system, we guaranteed a qualitatively acceptable.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Behavior. A second area where we think our method has. A lot of potential is when we want to use modeling to inform our development of synthetic systems or how we can manipulate existing systems in order to get some desired output. And here our method would be able to tell us which parameters by how much we should change them such that we're able to get or symmetry stable steady state behavior or even Celtic behavior.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
OK, so that's the motivation and the rest of the talk will be structured as follows. Will start off by trying to build the background theory with which to understand the method, and then I'll show you some results for detecting chaos oscillations and hyper cows in different ODI systems.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So first of all we need some way of encoding the type of behavior we would like to see. And this is going to replace the role of numerical observations and so here we turn to a central concept of dynamical systems theory. The Lyapunov exponents and the lapping of exponents measure the initial condition sensitivity of the system. And they do this by looking at the long term average rate of contraction or expansion of nearby trajectories, as illustrated on the left and their interest to us is that if we look at the maximum level of exponents, they come as a spectrum. Then, if the maximally athletics bonus is negative, we get a stable steady state behavior. If we get a maximum of Exponent zero, we get a limit cycle or oscillations. If we have maximum spend which is positive, we get chaos and if we have more than one positive laptops point, we get high dimensional chaos or hyper kills. And something that's worth noting at this stage is that it's computationally expensive to infer these from an ODI model.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So now we need an optimization routine and here we turn to filtering probabilistic inference. So when we wish to model some real life process, often we're only able to measure some of the system states that we'd like to include in the model, and those things that we are able to measure. We can only do so in a noisy fashion. And dynamical state space models give us a nice framework with which in which to take take this into account. So here we have an example where we are able to split the system into those state. Those components which are hidden and those that are observed. So left we have some hidden true states of the system. And they evolve according to A roll rule given by function F and parameterized by Theatre, which is also an observed. Subject to some process noise NPT and on the right we have some noisy measurements which we do observe and we take from the system according to the rule given by function G and also parameterized by this UN observed parameter vector theater. Probabilistic inference allows us to take the information in our observed components and then try and infer those hidden parts system. I'm looking for parameters, then we try to infer the posterior distribution.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
But it's also applicable to state anjul estimation problems where we wish to estimate the States and the parameters of the system.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
However, the Bayesian update step. It's problematic because the terms are correspond to multidimensional integrals, which are intractable in general and only available for linear systems. In closed form when we do have a linear system then this is known as Kalman filtering.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So we have to look at some alternatives because. We're interested in money and biological systems. And in fact, we use our methods. Needs the use of a highly nonlinear observation function G. So we have some examples here. And we're going to consider them in turn based upon a key step in their process, which is the propagation of a. Of the parameter distribution through the nonlinear observation function. So the extended Kalman filter is the most conceptually straightforward extension of the counter filter. So nonlinear systems where we simply linearize the system and observation equations. However, it's been shown that this can lead to non trivial errors in the provocated statistics and then divergents of the filter in the presence of high nonlinearity, and so this isn't unsuitable for our purposes. Are better approach would be particle filtering where we were able to keep the true system equations. However then we have to have some large scale sampling which incurs a heavy computational cost and is not able to use with the lapping of estimation procedure. Finally, somewhere in between we have the Sigma Point Kalman filters.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And in particular, the unscented Kalman filter. Which is based upon the intuition that probability density functions are often easier to approximate the highly nonlinear systems. So instead of taking the approach of extended camera filtering, approximating the system equations. Instead, we try to approximate the distribution of parameters. And we do this by the Terministic Lee sampling a minimal set of particles which we call Sigma points. The completely captured the mean and covariance of the distribution. We can then propagate these particles. These Sigma points individually through the equations. So true system equations. And reassemble them in some weighted fashion, such that we capture the meaning covariance of the propagated distribution up to 3rd order in the Taylor expansion. And the great thing about this is that it's computationally efficient. So now I'm going to put this into the step into the rest of the filter algorithm, and I'm not an invited speaker. But I'm also just going to wave my hands at the mathematics and trying instead describe it through some nice pictures. So if we start from some prior distribution over all parameters, the filter iterates through the observations and updates the distribution based on the information in each one. So at time T.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Or step T. We have some posterior distribution here, which I've indicated by this. This kind of ellipse. So the next step in the.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Feature is to approximate this distribution with some Sigma points. Inject it here and then we propagate.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Individually through our observation model. And with this we are predicting the next observation in our time series. So we get a distribution of predicted values. And then come by comparing this distribution to the true observation.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Auntie were able to update or him to posterior. And then we continue doing things doing this until we run out of observations. So how do we adapt this for qualitative info?

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And the idea is to exploit the flexibility of the observation function G and the observations YT.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So instead of choosing G or having G in the traditional sense, is showing how we draw observations from measured our measurements from our true system. We choose G to output the lap of exponents of the model for parameter vector for each Sigma point here. So we associate with each Sigma point at the Apple of exponent. All the Apple spectrum. So we get a distribution of the Apple of exposure.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And then instead of having our time series as a time series of measurements, we fixed this time series to be constant. Desired level of spectrum. And then we can come at each step. Now we compare our distribution of level of exponents to the desired# into spectrum. I'll update the distribution accordingly. So now we have this optimization routine and we have our method encoding the dynamical behavior. And so we can look at some results of applying this different body systems.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK, so the first system we looked at was the Lorenz system, which is a Canonical example of chaos in a nonlinear ode model. And here we took some of the typical parameters and their associated lapping exponents known from literature. And we tried to from just knowledge of the lapping of exponents, infer back those typical parameters, those associated parameters, and the results are shown on the left here. So for each plot it shows the. The evolution of a particular parameter as we iterate through the unscented Kalman filter algorithm. As you can see, we are able to converge to these these values and they are the very close to the typical values we wanted. The colors indicates how how close we are to the desired Japanese spectrum, and a little along the top. We have some snapshots of the attractor and in more detail we have movie here. If it's going to play showing how the attractor develops through the iterations of the unscented Kalman filter. So we start up with some regimes that are just stable attractive. Points. Bifurcate through different kind of orbits and end up with this. Um characteristic butterfly attractor.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So the promised oscillations. Here we consider the Haslam regulatory model. Her simple model of a hassle regulatory model, so this one is a gene that's involved in regulating the. The segmentation of the segmentation Clock, which coordinates how vertebrate embryo segment. And in all that we were having troubles finding parameters that fitted the data that we were given were also oscillatory. Or gave voice or symmetry regimes. And so we employed our method to come up with some parameters that oscillate and successfully did this. Along the top you can see the limit cycles that we obtained. Come next week then. Gave these these parameters to someone using a more traditional Bayesian approach. Numerical driven Bayesian approach, and they kind of made some priors from these parameters that we found and were able to find quite nice. Fits the data using this.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Another interesting use of our method. When it's kind of just a US launch of what I've already shown you really, but the idea of Chaos control and anti control or calcification. And here we looked at a electrical circuit. Which we have one parameter that we can control physically and we look to see how we have to change this parameter order to move into chaos and out of chaos and the results are shown, were able to move from our symmetry regime to a chaotic regime and vice versa down the bottom. And it's interesting story to avoid chaos, because outside of caps were able to predict make predictions that are there. Verifiable experimentally and inside chaos, then we can't do so. And at this point she I should note just the interest of chaos in biology. We've set that's been kind of reports that chaos is involved in cardiac arrest, and heart arrhythmia would also. Recently I read a paper by Grigor off in by informatics. And there they they found that there were low level chaotic dynamics in the. The developmental expression gene expression levels in Maryland Augusta.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Only or the most results too. Hyper Hyper chaotic attractor. And this is for a system that was published in 2008 and the significance of the system was this. It had very very large laptop components, which is quite rare to find normally. Find hyper chaotic systems with very low that proponents are not not very useful for engineering applications and kind of. Crypto crypto cryptography applications.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So here we asked, how big can we actually make these laptop experiments. So we kind of set some target values very high and were able to within six iterations of the unsent Cam filter, doubled the Apple of his opponents with which they published. And this is interesting to us hypercars interesting to us because it shares statistical properties with white noise, and so maybe a perhaps a deterministic explanation of random decision making in biological systems.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So finally, in summary, I've shown how the unscented Kalman filter may be adapted for qualitative parameter inference. I've shown how we able to find parameters to give rise to a chosen people expect, which encodes the dynamic behavior. Unlike given applications, example applications to chaos oscillations night because.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
I'm some ongoing work and we'd like to address the problem of inferring model structure as well. We got a few ideas. One location right now is just a brute force approach so.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
We take the complete space of three or four node networks and appeal to the computational efficiency of our approach to try and find chaos oscillations and hopefully identify some necessary motifs for the different types of behavior.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And just to acknowledge the help of my supervisor, Michael Stump and some members and former members of the theoretical Systems Biology group at Imperial College London, Paul Kirk, Chris Bonds and Tina Tony. And also for the support of the CRISPR consortium and for funding from the BP SLC.
