So basic goal here is to recover 3D human body posts from image silhouettes and when we talk of 3D pose we basically mean joint angles so parameterized the body by trying to recover joint angles for major body joints. The goal is to predict the output vector X which 3D human pose given the input vector Z which we just computed and represented by nonlinear weighted combination of basis functions. We actually use for our regression is the relevance vector machine and. So basically on each parameter or group of parameters. We made advantage of the relevance vector machines that get sparse solutions, then only generalized. So there's an automatic pruning going on, and we select only relevant examples to computer basis functions. So what we do is we use real human motion capture data for training our system. It's very, very dense space, but what we do is by using training data from real motions. So we have a lot of ground truth data to test and train and test our system on. And Gaussian kernels turn out to be the best in terms of our choice of basis functions, and they get slightly better. In terms of numbers, the mean angular error per degree of freedom here is 6 degrees. People been working on and classify the most model based approaches and learning based approaches. So given lots and lots of data and how much information can we extract directly from this? For example here, plot the hip angle of the person while he's walking in circles. This is another parameter where we plot the overall heading angle of the person, so this varies from minus 1 to 2 + 90 degrees. So these glitches there is also OK, but we have these glitches and the reason is because the regressive chooses wrong around case of animals, pair or remains undecided when we don't have enough information, the silhouette. This rewrapping discontinuous thing actually addressing cost & Theta. So we can see that. The problem is coming from the fact that. So where the real solution to it would be to try to set up a multivalued regressor. What we do is a possible solution is to resolve these ambiguities using temporal information. Sequences and which is able to reduce glitches by embedding the thing in a tracking framework. And the observation update is a slightly complicated model. And through this indirect dependence on state estimate, we're not really very sensitive to temporal miss tracking, but it does help in resolving this ambiguity's. So we propose a model free learning based approach. The advantage is that we avoid the need to build an explicit 3D model. Answer Most of the most of the relationships between the image and the 3D model. On the negative side, it's. Track from a single camera and real images. OK, conclusion so kind of formula, compact model for direct regression on image observations. Training on working on just part of the solid. So the basic idea is to learn a compact system that directly outputs pose from an image. And how do we do this? And while you silhouettes well, they capture most of the information on post. They can often be extracted from real images. And which arm is is left on the right arm? For example in this image, how much is an event we really? So the silhouette supposed problems inherently multivalued given silver does not always a well defined 3D pose. So we describe ourselves using um shape context histograms. We'd like to base our representation on some local kind of features, so here we use shape context histograms, which is basically a distribution of local shape context responses, so shape contexts are shape descriptors, which were introduced Berkeley Group few years ago, and view here is. If you look at the distribution of points for a single silhouette, for example this one, this is what we get in the shape context space in the first 2 principal components of shape context space.