[0.0s - 29.0s]
Describe our method to deal with with this new task that ego proposed to us, and this is based on a graph distance measure and is based based on a syntactic. For management of these behind this graph distance, I'm fabric, turns out and this is joint work with Maria Teresa. But since then, Marco, inaccurately, first of all, just to start.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I would like to spend a few words on classifying text or entailment because I've seen that this has not been done in this injustice previous presentations, let's say that. This, that extra attainment can be. Classified on 2 dimensions. The first one is a semantic dimension that. Try to this and to understand what kind of differences there will be in different kind of paraphrasing. Of of textual entailment there is the textual entailment that deals with only with sign on me. And that is the path related to paraphrasing in fact. And that is trying to describe different realization of different of the same factor in different texts on the other. Part that we can say, we can see a different entailment. That is the one that is strict containment. That means the two facts are represented in the text and the end in the Odyssey's, and the previous fact entails the other one, such as when you buy something you own something afterwards. So this semantic semantic dimension can help us in fixing our graph measure. On the other part. Let's look at the recognition dimension. And the recognition dimension, we can classify the semantic entailment, the textual entailment in different parts. According to the operation we used to recognize the intent if we use a semantic subsumption semantic. Operation that uses the synonymy or or lexical resources dealing with synonymy, we can say that there is a semantic substantial operation. On the other hand, if we cancel something from the syntactic graph from the graph or from the text that we can say that there is a semantic syntactic substantial on the other end, the strict entailment is related to the right to the direct implication. In this example, we see that if someone fires flight attendants then these will lose. These poor flight attendant will lose their job. And this is a sort of St entailment relation. To do that, we can, as we've seen before, use this in some repres.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Station some graph representation of the sentence, such as this one in which the problem is. To understand which are the relations between the nodes, here we have the relation between will fires and we lay half. That we have called semantics assumption in the previous slides and relation. That is. Canceling of some nodes like in this case the syntactic Samsung. This seems to be a graph matching problem, and as we have seen before, graph matching seems to be used for image.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Permission, but you can tell me more than I can tell you. For someone participated the workshop yesterday so. One problem there seems to be. Correct me if I'm wrong, the distortion of the input graphs. So if you have to. Recognize the difference between the similarity between the two things. One problem is mapping the image to the graph, and this introduces some distortions into into in the graph. In the final graph that has to be matched with one graph that is in memory. If we see this problem from the point of view of textual entailment instead, we have more than that.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
We have the distortion induced by the syntactic to semantic induced in the syntactic semantic graph due to errors in passing and to other problems like word senses, ambiguation than not well. As we've seen before in the in the talk of Bill. For what concern passing he was expecting there. The best person in the world to try to solve the problem. On the other end, some of more limitation is that the matching of the nodes is more complex than simple label matching in this case. Other problems arise from the fact that there are syntactic transformations that takes place into the text, and I policies and this measure the graph distance we're trying to describe should be invariant to these transformations. And final. And finally there is the problem that unlikely. The the application of the graph matching in to other problems. That's all in take. My relation is not symmetric as we are seeing the previous talks in which. They added the cancellation of in the editing the tree edit distance was not symmetric. What we would like to have at the end is a an attainment measure that tried to Maps and to evaluate the distance between these two graphs. And extend the dependency graph of the text and an extended dependency graph of. They I thought this is. This is our goal for the rest of the talk. So what we we?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
See next first of all we will try to define the syntactic representation model we are using and then we will describe our rule based approach that is basically the definition of the graph measure. Of the graph distance measure. And finally we will try to sketch. And try to describe how. We tackle the problem under a machine learning environment, and in particular on using SVN. And finally I will try to use to describe the primary analysis that. Suggest us to submit Sub Sam particular systems. What is an ex PG and XDG?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
These are synthetic graph in which nodes are constituents here. Like American Airlines and relation between nodes are dependencies, so we have subject object relation. What is interesting? An interesting representation because tries to. Representing one way in one single graph. Many alternative analysis as you see here. The modifier of develop will fire. Or fly attendants can be modified. Modifier of the variable will fire as well as modifier of hundreds and this is saved in one single graph. At the level of the constituents here we have a notion of potential governor that is the one that is carrying the meaning and the other and the on the other sense on the other. Way we have the semantic head that is carrying this syntactic. It that is carrying syntactic information out of the constituents and is trying to. Fire syntactic lexicalized syntactic rules. So. On top of that, we.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
To describe how we define the measure, taking into account that this measure should be oriented. So first of all, we try to define any some or any summer fix substantion between the two graphs representing one day, apodosis and the second one the text that. Has a partial order between this one and the airport is endotext. The this is the most big substantion can be established if we can find the two functions 2 by qnective functions then can map both the nodes and the hedge between the heart between the AH and between T. Anne. This is ordered because of the fact that when we use. When we use. A. A transformation between one node, one constituent, and the other constituents. If the one is entailed by the error. These transformation introduce an ordered relation. On the other way. Since not all the text is included into the hypothesis, what we need is in fact. A sub graph of tea that is related with this aggregate of age and this is a graph of T is XDG prime. That is in relation with the other one. This is the sub graph isomorphic substantion that we can establish between the two. And to deal with with the problems of errors introduced by the pastor, what we need in fact, is to find also a sub graph of H that is related to Twitch again. And this is what we can be called. The maximum common subgraph between H&T. And on this sub graph, on the distance between this sub graph and age. So XDG prime age and SDG and the distance between XTG prime and the XTGT should be somehow. And. Re presented these entailment relation. Measure based on the graph distance, that is the one that is below. So what we need now?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Is to build this base active functions from for the constituents an for the dependencies and finally trying to define this Maxim. A common subsume are graph using these two functions. So the first step. Due to the fact that.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Constituents that nodes are in fact chelski Twins. The semantics of the degree of similarity between the constituents. The cost equense is made on on 2 levels. For the first level. The governor, the Semantic governor of the. Of the. Graph. Of the sub graph is taking into consideration, in this case. Cat here is too small to be read and sorry. So. This first part of the of the measure in fact Connect and try to capture the similarity between these two things. In fact, if they are the same word. These is set to 1. And the other path to try to capture Xanto. And to measure the distance between the circus, the sub coasted wins. The rest of the sub constituents of tea with respect to the rest of the sub constituents of age. And here we have the first parameter parameter. That is how fast that is that comes into this measure, and I put this Alpha here to to understand how many parameters we are dealing with. Anne. The similarity between this sub constituents is in fact made. Using this part of the of the formula, they try to capture the maximum similar. Part of the sub of the sub graph. For what concern the degree of?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
United we independency. Well, we are interested in. Is to understand how this is structurally related to the? To the one below to the one above. So we need to understand if there is a subject or relation, for instance, starting from this verb and an object relation that Arkham Parable from their policy and the text. For doing that. We computed. We use. The connected nodes and we computed the relation. Between the similarity between these nodes that are related to the central nodes. So the similarity that is called SS here between. Alright, that use dependency. In fact it is a similarity between costed when constituents related to a particular constituent. And this is made over the related constituent. Finally, the text.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Attainment measure he's a. It mean over these. But the previous. Obtain the relations and measures that is mixing. In fact, the measures about the constituents and the measure about the dependencies here comes up under another to another one para meter that is Delta with the threshold that is applied to use to say if the two graphs are in fact one entailed with respect to the other. Some more details.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
In order to deal with syntactic transformation, we use nominal, some parts, some primitive part of normalization and passivization and some other phenomenons. We've seen that most of the cases are cases like the president of XY. Zed is something with respect to opposition as being treated separately. Otherwise, also we try to treat the note note with respect to. To the other. Depressants with the absence of an optimal. And that sends the.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Part are related to the rule based system. Now the problem is to feed this syntactic graph distance in. Feature space model. And here the idea is to divide the measure the graph matching measure in many parts and we did an assumption that H is a simple sentence with a subject and a verb and object and SVM. In this case the machine learning algorithm used as to learn the parameters and thresholds too. Deal with that. With these saying that is things are entailed or not, but the main hypothesis, that is that age is a simple sentence as video. This give us the possibility of dividing the Fisher space in three parts. One that is related to the subject, one that is related to the main verb and one that is related to the object. Here we have a.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Graphical representation of the same path, so we will have a part of the feature space related to this part of the official space relative to the verb and part of the visual space related to the object. We come up with some feature spaces and we want baseline.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Visual space the baseline feature space, is the common tokens and the percentage of common tokens and common land mass in the text, and a processes that we call L. Then we added the task in the future as feature. And some part related to this structural. Graph features that are the one related to. The subject the 1S. That they compose this. Divide the. The similarity measure in the power in the component parts seem seem sub NSS the one related to the verb and the one related to the object and finally. We had that also. Sam the number of komoni of mean the mean number of commonly anchored dependency within constituents. And we did some experiments to assess the best method. The resources we use.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Is there a? From the point of view of the syntactic parser, we used a syntactic parser called Chaos that we developed in the past years for Italian for English, and is in fact based on these XDG formalism. And for assessing the relation between constituents we used also word net and the relation of synonymy, entailment and. Antonymy and for what concern? The. Machine learning algorithm. We use SVM like. Naturally.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
There are a lot of parameters of parameters, so we have to understand which is the best setting to. Yes. Which is the best setting for what concern the? The rule based system we perform such an analysis. We fixed all the parameters and very only one we tried one listed. What is the variance of the precision with respect to the? Oh, see also to their varying of the threshold in deciding if. Something is entailed or not. And we did that for the parameters and we decided to use this kind of parameters. These Sierra is there is a reported on the dev one. This is the first development set that is being given. For what concern there?

[522.0s - 551.0s]
SVM system we did such a kind of of investigation. We put them one and F2 together and we did a three fold cross validation repeated 10 times. And these three fold were randomly chosen each time. This is the baseline system. That is the one with the only the relation between the landmass and the tokens, and apparently all the other system perform better than this apparently. And. Here you can see. The different feature spaces with respect to the different degree of the kernel function of type one in SVM. So we decide to use this one. That's that seems to be. The more interesting part. Anne. And those are there.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Starts with this paper there. Now you see Sarah, let's say not so good. Also with respect to the. Variation that we expected. Maybe because the comment is more or less all the same statistically. Based on the error and everything. Yes. But he's a, let's say somehow more higher than the baseline system, at least that. Teacher then? Yeah. So these are the results we obtained with respect to the to the rule based and the SVM based system. But we already seen the analysis of this results and maybe this is the problem.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Some of the examples are like that in which there is no syntactic counterpart that can help us into this in deciding. What is entailed or what is not? Back in. Future. The main problem with this is that we divided the H in three parts. So we had only subject verb and object. And that was important to to divide official space OK? Next one. And the first feature we used is the number of the percentage of common tokens between the head between the hypothesis in the text and the percentage of common lemmas as two different features. The second one is the task represented with six features. The task is CD. All in all. Pasco and the other one at this structural features that are represented with them with a graph that means we have some features related to the. So this object Sigma seems somber and SSI will try to explain these like that. Thing comes from here. Seems Sabbath comes from there and. Other things come comes from the different part here. What what have you done? With complex sentences. When we when we found the complex sentences like something added after the subject verb and the object. Everything has been pulled put together. In one single we had. Subject, verb, object and all the rest. And for all the rest, we computed all these measures for the best one for the best. Linked between for the best link cost difference between the head and the airport is. Is not clear. OK, it's just a way to deal with with the fact that not all the sentence can take place into a feature effects the feature space like this. But many cases are these subject verb object. Question about that basically. Optimizing. And do you something which is negative measure? We did try this. Anne. Should be better. Big because. Yes, if you don't. If you don't have a sorry. If you don't have. Errors in parsing. So that's why we try to use something that in some cases leave things aside, even if he doesn't understand how to match things. So that's why is yes, that's the answer because. Yeah.
