[0.0s - 29.0s]
So in this work are we consider a Bayesian approach to preference elicitation where the user faced a decision problem and the goal is to recommend that decision. For example, a product and the goal is to maximize utility. So, however, because the utility is uncertain, we maintain a probability distribution about utility parameters that get updated whenever the system acquire more information about the user. So to make a single recommendation, we can show the product that maximize expected utility to reduce uncertainty and natural criterion is. Some query uncertainties we can ask queries and the natural criterion for queries is expected value of information. This criterion is however a computationally extremely expensive. In most cases. The paper, the main paper contribution is the optimal or near optimal choice. Queries can be generated by exploiting the connection with another problem. That is the problem of generating an optimal recommendation site.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So in general, there's a natural tension between making recommendations that are useful for the user and eliciting user full information from the user. So when making recommendation, the system should exploit the current belief state about the user utility function. On the other hand, when eliciting new information they aim is to ask a query that we result after incorporating the answer in the belief state will result in better recommendation be made in the future. So we also noted that there can be value since the utilities uncertain. To recommend a set of products and this is, this is so far and the user will choose the product that is the most preferred in the set. So by showing at the best recommendation, we increase the odds that at least one of the recommendation in the set we live I utility. So the extension is also a practical importance because in online recommendation, system options are often shown with the dual goal of recommendation and elicitation. So in our.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Distance we focused on trust queries. Any given set of products can be viewed as other recommendation set or our choice query site so another. In other words, if you give me a set of products, I can ask the question what is the value of this set when it's viewed as a recommendation and what is the value of the same site when This site is used as a choice query and the result that we show in the paper is that under very general assumption, the optimal recommendation set is also an optimal choice query. So we also consider the case in which the user will select with some probability something other than is most preferred option among the option in the set and we discussed the impact of different noise model. So the result is the for the popular logistic noise model. The optimal optimal recommendation set are more optimal queries and we can give a close form evaluation of the worst case loss due to the noise. So this is cool, but it's a is also practical implication, because when are making opt.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Station 4 is not even in task when the recommendation the recommendation task is separated by the elicitation task. You can optimize with respect to the simpler objective of optimizing our recommendation site. More more over this problem is submodular. So approximated greedy strategy of strong worst case guarantees, and we also show that noisily supplementation is in fact quite effectively noisy setting. Finally, we also provide an design strategy that is a local search. RTG that we call a query iteration that is particularly efficient for large data set, as you can generate a set in just a fraction of a second. So let me recommend you to come to the poster session and see poster W. 47, thanks.
