I will not tell you about information extraction with linked data. And the question is, how can we link this information to a knowledge base automatically? You start off with sentences on web pages, so the farmer hit the donkey. And tokens are words and also characters. So every farmer who owns a donkey beats it. the Arctic Monkeys almost exclusively played songs from their new album AM at Summer Fest 2014 at Miller Lite Oasis in Milwaukee on 25th of June 2014. OK. Last one, somewhere in Britain, some woman has a child every 30 seconds. My question to you is, can we still build name, entity recognized cement extractors that extract or entities from unseen text correctly? So if you have the sense again, Summer Fest 2014 took place at Miller Lite Miller Lites Oasis in Milwaukee on 25th of June 2014 and you wanted to say if Milwaukee is a name entity and what type of entity it is, then they can look at the words preceding. OK. Now another thing that helps our part of speech tags and this is a paper from Dub dub last year they they looked at the part of speech tags of that name. Named entities, proper nouns which refer to real life entities. So for example, a cat is not named entity, but the Arctic Monkeys are a named entity. Immigration means you link them entities two entries in a knowledge base and this is quite challenging because they can point to many different entries depending on how ambiguous the string is. So if you have a M for example, that would be quite ambiguous, and even Milwaukee is quite ambiguous, so it's the largest city in the US state of Wisconsin. So now that those are nouns or noun and another noun, that's very helpful. OK. Another thing that can be useful are gazetteers, which can for example be retrieved from HTML lists or tables or from our knowledge base. And if you if they're not in the knowledge base you can also create more of them using regular expressions and a search engine. This is just an overview of some of the some of the popular machine learning algorithms. So just very briefly, how name entity recognition can be modeled for machine learning. So you try to say you tried to dementi boundary recognition by trying to say something is the beginning token of a sequence. One of them is Cades and you have some other things, like a Stanford NLP open, an LPN LTC, and some machine learning software. They mention recognizer, so there's any engaged, for example this wiki fire this figure which is based on Wikipedia. And then there's this what I call almost ready to use them achieve recognition software. There's for example boiler pipe which extracts the main content from web pages and this J soup, which allows you to traverse the elements of web pages one by one and then essentially build your own context extraction from that. So opinion mining means you tried to extract opinions or sentiments in text and it's about finding out what people think. So opinion mining is quite big business. So they might take feedback from fans and then improve their product and maybe also improve their marketing strategy. Miley Cyrus attempts to shock would be more effective if she had songs to back up the posturing from the Guardian and then a review from a fan is a lot more positive. Bangerz is an amazing album with great lyrics, and we could see the Miley Cyrus musical evolution. The Arctic Monkeys produced an album, so this in in Musicbrainz is. So why is this challenging? It's challenging because it's relatively easy to find sentiment, words and sentences, but it's more difficult to find out which topic they are about. So as an example, this album comes with a free bonus CD and I don't like the cover art and much, so the question is, what does free refer to? And one example, Whitney Houston was quite unpopular on Twitter for awhile, or at least opinion. So these are some tweets about Whitney Houston. So one example, it's a great movie if you have the tastes and sensibilities of a 5 year old boy. It's terrible. So opinion extraction means you try to extract the piece of the text which which represents the opinion, then sentiment, classification and orientation means to extract the polarity. And just one spoiler that those general purpose lexicons. Now thank you very much for your attention and also thank you to Diana. Now to summarize, again, relations hold between two or more entities, so those two more entities relates to one another in real life. A schema which is able to express that. OK, an events are real life events that happened at some point in space and time. And event extraction means you try to extract events consisting of the name and type of event, agent, time and location. To summarize information extraction means they have methods such as name, Angie recognition, Relation extraction, Temple information extraction and event extraction and they can help you to add markup to web pages to text. In on several web pages so you can feel more confident about that. So you try to write manual extraction rules or you try to develop a machine learning based approach. You already give the system the correct answers and the system tries to learn from those correct answers in order to predict on unseen examples. Using clustering. And this is you have several language patterns and the similar ones are clustered. Which can be quite frustrating.