[0.0s - 29.0s]
I will not tell you about information extraction with linked data. Marco's already told you a little bit about it, and also when I was looking at your posters, I saw that a couple of people were using information extraction of sorts, so I think this will be a highly relevant for many of you, or I hope so. OK first, why?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Extraction motivating example. If we look at web pages or text content of any sort, we usually have semi structured information which are lists and tables and we have unstructured information which is just free text. And the question is, how can we link this information to a knowledge base automatically? So how can we link it and how can we extract it? And the answer to this is information extraction.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Now this is an example sentence for you. the Arctic Monkeys almost exclusively played songs from their new album AM at Summer Fest 2014 at Miller Lite Oasis in Milwaukee on 25th of June 2014. Any ideas what kind of information what different kinds of information are hidden in this sentence? Marco already told you little bit about it, so you should have some ideas. Yeah. Location. Person names organization. Anything else? Event. States. Politics. Album names bat names. OK, So what I was looking for was groups of different kinds of information. So you have named entities, relations, events, temporal information and we will now start with named entities. So you have the Arctic Monkeys am Summer Fest 2014 and so on. And those are all named entities and you can extract them or annotate them with named entity recognition. Now there is a difference between M&T recognition and name entity classification. A couple of you name name entry categories like person, location, organization, those are types of named entities, so with named entity recognition you would just get that string is a name entity you would just recognize the boundaries and with name entity classification you would actually get what type of name entity it is, and those types can be defined in any way. So for example. It can just be some some static definition or it can come from a knowledge base. So the music ontology you have example you have music artists and you have signal group for albums and so on. So it it depends on the task then. What Michael also mentioned earlier was the difference between slot filling and semantic annotation, and this is exactly what you can see here. So slot filling would be named entity recognition and classification where you just want to save this string is off that type A name. Entity linking would mean you actually annotate text on webpages and point to an entry in a knowledge base. So for each of the named entities you get a UI in a knowledge base. Right?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And it's not a very easy thing to do, so, um. Yeah, first just a summary again. Named entities, proper nouns which refer to real life entities. So for example, a cat is not named entity, but the Arctic Monkeys are a named entity. And they mention recognition means you try to detect boundaries of named entities in mantika application means you try to assign classes to name entities such as person, occasion, organization or also more fine grained ones such as single group, their name, entity linking on their mantis. Immigration means you link them entities two entries in a knowledge base and this is quite challenging because they can point to many different entries depending on how ambiguous the string is. So if you have a M for example, that would be quite ambiguous, and even Milwaukee is quite ambiguous, so it's the largest city in the US state of Wisconsin. But then there's also a city which is named after that city. And then there's the state. And there's a company manufacturing electronic power tools, and then fun fact is also the early code name for what was to become Macintosh two. Wikipedia tells me so it can be all kinds of different things.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
OK, now we've gone to relations. You have different relations. In this example sentence I showed you so you have the relation that. The Arctic Monkeys produced an album, so this in in Musicbrainz is. But represented with both made. Then you have a festival. Arctic Monkeys played at a festival and then you have the middle light races located in Milwaukee. So those are the three different relations you have in there. Who let this happen now? OK sorry bout that. OK, we're back. Then temporal extraction. So you have 25th of June 2014 and you can try to represent this in a normalized format. So you have date, month and year. I will tell you a little bit more about that. In a bit OK, then event extraction you have an event. You have the name of an event. You have the agent of the event, you have the temporal information. So when was that? And then also spatial information. So where did that event take place?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Now to summarize, again, relations hold between two or more entities, so those two more entities relates to one another in real life. So, um, relation extraction is often done for binary relations, but you can also think about relations which are not binary, which are then often events. So if they haven't a temple aspect to it. Then temporal extraction means you try to recognize a normalized time expressions and for the example I showed you, it's quite easy. But there are other examples which are more challenging. So if you have three in the afternoon, how do you represent that? What does that refer to? Or you have state such as tomorrow. Then you need to know when the document was created in order to infer what is tomorrow or since yesterday and you also have set such as twice a month. So in terms of representing those temporal expressions, you need to have. Um? A schema which is able to express that. OK, an events are real life events that happened at some point in space and time. For example music festival or an album release also. And event extraction means you try to extract events consisting of the name and type of event, agent, time and location.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, So what is information extraction? To summarize information extraction means they have methods such as name, Angie recognition, Relation extraction, Temple information extraction and event extraction and they can help you to add markup to web pages to text. Or they can also help you to populate knowledge bases. After you've done that in if you want to populate a knowledge base you can aggregate that information. If you have different pieces of evidence. So for example you have different web pages and you have the information. About that music festival. In on several web pages so you can feel more confident about that. So you can aggregate those mentions for to populate knowledge bases. Also for name entity recognition, that's the example in that slide. If you think Milwaukee might be a location, or it might be an organization if you have. If you have Milwaukee on several different web pages, then you can aggregate it and you can feel more sure that it's a location.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
OK, now possible methodology is for for information extraction are general. Generally either rule based. So you try to write manual extraction rules or you try to develop a machine learning based approach. And with machine learning based approaches, you can either do supervised learning, which means you have to spend quite a lot of time doing manual annotation. You already give the system the correct answers and the system tries to learn from those correct answers in order to predict on unseen examples. Then for unsupervised learning you just do a clustering. So you just you don't. The system doesn't know anything, it just tries to understand what is there. Using clustering. And this is you have several language patterns and the similar ones are clustered. Then Semi supervised learning means you have a little bit of an attached information already and you try to iteratively learn more. It's also called bootstrapping. As I won't have time to go into detail about any of this. But we will do in the hands-on will be a gazeteer based methods and also rule based methods. Yeah, unfortunately there's no time to go into detail about all of those things in. In practice. What you often do is you try to do combination of those things because their different approaches have different strengths.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Now, if you want to develop and emanci recognition classification system, this usually involves lots of programming based around existing API's. Which can be quite frustrating. And then what it also involves is.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Some knowledge about linguistics which you might or might not have, so I assume most of you don't have a background in linguistics, so and I will just tell you a little bit about that, so a little bit of what you should know in order to do at least some basic name entity recognition.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
OK, so this is this is a linguistic pipeline or natural language processing pipeline. You start off with sentences on web pages, so the farmer hit the donkey. Sorry bout that, linguists like violence, at least in their examples. And the next thing is you try to split up those sentences into tokens. And tokens are words and also characters. So the farmer hit the donkey and the dot is also the punctuation mark is also a separate token. Then you have morphemes, so weight plus Ed makes waited. So those are those are units of meaning. Alright, and then you have if you want to get back from morphemes towards you. Also have syntax coming into place so you want to know something is available. If something is a noun for example and then you also have parsing which Mark also mentioned. So you want to know if something is a noun phrase or if something is a verb phrase and a noun phrase is something like, uh, the farmer. So you have farmer but they don't. You also have. An article. Right and then you have this course which is quite describe difficult. So the further you get down the pipeline, the more difficult it is. So every farmer who owns a donkey beats it. So that can. That can mean different things, right? So for every farmer and every donkey, if he has a donkey, he beats it. That should be the correct one.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
OK, so just to summarize what those steps are called so you have sentence splitting, you have tokenization, you have lemmatization, part of speech tagging. You have chunking and parsing and you have semantic and discourse analysis and anaphora resolution, which means you have different entities of different words which point to the same entity like the farmer or he.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Now just to explain to you why this is not very easy, a couple of examples. If you look at New York based, what do you think will be the problem when trying to split that up into tokens? Any ideas? Yes, so there is a problem with the separator. That's that's exactly what I wanted to say so.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And it can either be knew your based or NJM slash based, sorry- based. Then

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The next thing is, she'd. Any idea what the problem with that is? Yes, she had she would.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
We don't really know which one it is.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Next, one classic example, time flies like an arrow. Convicted yeah, different meaning, but what exactly any? Any ideas why? Where the different meaning is. The whole band is. Yes, flies can be a verb or it can be a noun. And when you start reading the sentence or in a machine starts reading the sentence, it doesn't really know if time fly.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Eyes should be a noun phrase or it should if time should be a noun and flies should be a verb. So then time flies like an arrow in order to really to assign part of speech text to that the machine needs to read the whole sentence and then construct the different possibilities and then pick the most probable one.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
OK, next example the woman saw the man with binoculars. Any idea? Yes, so they.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Question is who is holding them? Right seeing through them or seeing the woman holding them.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
OK. Last one, somewhere in Britain, some woman has a child every 30 seconds. And you want to tell me what's wrong with that? The woman. Yes, so either it's some sort of super.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Women who can have a child every 30 seconds or they're different women.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
OK, so my point was Sara ambiguities as we call it on every one of those processing levels, which makes it really, really difficult, especially if you don't want to go to discourse analysis. All of those things add up. Right? So this is.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Indeed a problem. And then.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
My question to you is, can we still build name, entity recognized cement extractors that extract or entities from unseen text correctly? Can we still do that? Yeah we can.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
We can attempt it, but no highly unlikely ever. We can try to to make the most of what we have and use linguistic knowledge and also background knowledge.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Now, what can help with that? Different things can help with that, and we call those things features so you can look at the at the word and you can look at the context of the word for example. So if you have the sense again, Summer Fest 2014 took place at Miller Lite Miller Lites Oasis in Milwaukee on 25th of June 2014 and you wanted to say if Milwaukee is a name entity and what type of entity it is, then they can look at the words preceding. And following that word, and you can either represent them as bags of words, which means that the order doesn't really matter. You just want to know that they're there or you want to know that what the sequences.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Other things that matter are morphology. I mentioned that briefly, so things such as is a word capitalized. Is it? Mixed case doesn't contain any symbols. Does it contain a period, apostrophe- and so on? All of those things can help. So for example, Fisher and Sons, if it contains Fisher and Sons, would be very likely to be a Corporation. Um? And then you also tried to reduce the word to its basic form, so you try to do stemming or lemmatization. Lemmatization, so you go from cats to cat. And you try to remove the prefix for example. So this is vantages. The prefix would be this.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
OK. Now another thing that helps our part of speech tags and this is a paper from Dub dub last year they they looked at the part of speech tags of that name. Entities typically have and what you can see there is that the most frequent one is NN here. And there are the other ones. But you see that for some of the part of speech text, it's much more likely that they are name entities than rather than that they're not.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So I will just give you show you very briefly what part of speech tags are this. Is this the Penn treebank where which is one way of defining part of speech text and let you know?

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Need to know is that there are adjectives which start with a J and there are now and switched up with an N and there are verbs which start with a V and those are the those are the most important ones. So if you.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
If we go back again, he can see that NN. So now that those are nouns or noun and another noun, that's very helpful. And JJ's or adjective following a noun. And so, and verb phrases don't appear in this at all, so they're not. Verb phrases are very unlikely to be name entities, as you can probably imagine.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
OK. Another thing that can be useful are gazetteers, which can for example be retrieved from HTML lists or tables or from our knowledge base. And if you if they're not in the knowledge base you can also create more of them using regular expressions and a search engine. You can say popular artists such as. Um? Right?

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Now I said I don't have. I don't really have time to go into detail about how you could use machine learning for name entity recognition. This is just an overview of some of the some of the popular machine learning algorithms. So what you have here is clustering. You have classification and you have regression. Those are the most important ones. So clustering means you don't really know what groups there are. You know there are some named entities, but you don't. You don't even know what groups there are. You don't know if there are. Persons, locations, organisations or something else you just tried to group the similar ones. And classification is what you do if you already know what groups there are. So you expect persons, locations, organizations and you also have some sort of annotated data. Now regression is very isn't very useful for this, so this is if you have some sort of. I don't know. Yeah, monetary amounts and some. You know that income grows and you want to predict how how that grows. So you want to predict what the income will be the next day or the next year, and you have a history of incomes the from the past years. So this isn't really that interesting for name entity recognition, but I thought I would mention it anyway.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
OK. So just very briefly, how name entity recognition can be modeled for machine learning. I mentioned earlier that we have named entity boundary recognition and they mention classification and often what is done is that those two tasks are modeled as one task. So you try to say you tried to dementi boundary recognition by trying to say something is the beginning token of a sequence. It's insight and inside token of a sequence or an outside token of a sequence. So then you aggregated with the name entity type, such as location. So what you end up is quite a lot of types, depending on quite a lot of classes depending on how many name entity types you have. So you have B lock, beeper, B and so on for everyone. But this works quite well and what you can do then do is try to model it as a sequence labeling task so you try to say. For example, if you have Corp, it's quite likely that that is the ending token of an organization and is then followed by oh. So that's quite a good, quite a likely sequence for organization, for example. OK, as I've already mentioned, we won't have time for doing any machine learning. What I will show you in the hands on is how you can use gate to to do some basic rule based image recognition and also how to do name entity recognition with the knowledge base gazeteer.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
This is just an overview of some software in case you're interested, so you can have a look at this later. One of them is Cades and you have some other things, like a Stanford NLP open, an LPN LTC, and some machine learning software. Depending on what what programming language he used, there are different ones which are which could be interesting. Then

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
I also pre trained things in case you don't really want to bother with training your own. They mention recognizer, so there's any engaged, for example this wiki fire this figure which is based on Wikipedia. And then there's this what I call almost ready to use them achieve recognition software. So there's CRF suite which comes with a with some Python code already, so you only have to modify it slightly to change features, for example. Alright, one thing I didn't mention is how to extract content from web pages so there's also software to do that. There's for example boiler pipe which extracts the main content from web pages and this J soup, which allows you to traverse the elements of web pages one by one and then essentially build your own context extraction from that.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
OK, now a couple of slides on something different. So what people in this semantic web community usually like to do with information extraction is opinion mining. So opinion mining means you tried to extract opinions or sentiments in text and it's about finding out what people think. So opinion mining is one of the one of the information extraction methods which is important for opinion. Mining is named entity recognition and then opinion mining builds on that site needs to know mention recognition as a prerequisite. So what could people think people could think services speedy they could think that the atmosphere is rocking that it's great value. And what, why? Why is that important?

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So opinion mining is quite big business. Which means if you buy something, you usually care about what other people think about the product, and if you like something a lot or if you dislike something quite a lot, then you might write a review about it online. And then not all but some music artists and producers really care about what people think about their product. So they might take feedback from fans and then improve their product and maybe also improve their marketing strategy.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
So these are examples of reviews. There's a quite a negative one. Miley Cyrus attempts to shock would be more effective if she had songs to back up the posturing from the Guardian and then a review from a fan is a lot more positive. Bangerz is an amazing album with great lyrics, and we could see the Miley Cyrus musical evolution. Would love to buy it and already did album of the year, Peace. So you can see that the one on the bottom it's not very objective, right? So it's just this is a fan and the fan. Relax the album, so why so positively about it, whereas the Guardian really analyze it in more detail and looks at it from more objective POV.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
So why is this challenging? It's challenging because it's relatively easy to find sentiment, words and sentences, but it's more difficult to find out which topic they are about. So as an example, this album comes with a free bonus CD and I don't like the cover art and much, so the question is, what does free refer to? What does I don't like refer to because you have the album and you have the bonus city so you have to workout which refers to which and this is a very easy example. The longer the text gets, the more possible enter, the more possible entities you have under more opinions to have so it gets the longer the text gets, the more complicated it gets usually.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
And one example, Whitney Houston was quite unpopular on Twitter for awhile, or at least opinion. Mining tools thought that she was quite unpopular for awhile. Does anyone know why? No.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
So these are some tweets about Whitney Houston. Let's try to find out why. Radio playing Whitney Houston. I swear I'm about to cry. So sad negative, then who? Who's about to get Whitney Houston tonight? The Walking Dead? OK to it. I'm curious, who do you think had more problems? Michael Jackson, Whitney Houston Whitney Houston listening to Whitney Houston Love songs station. She's amazing. That's a positive one. And then the last one reveals the reason why you Whitney Houston died at only 41. Also negative. So that the thing that happened is that she died and that really confused opinion mining tools. So that's another example of why it's quite difficult to to do opinion mining sometimes.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
So as I already said, the context matters quite a lot. So one example, it's a great movie if you have the tastes and sensibilities of a 5 year old boy. Yeah, so positive, but also negative. It's terrible. Candidates did so well in the debate last night. OK. And then if sentiment words are neutral, negative or positive really depends on the domain. So you have a long track can be positive or negative along walk from the hotel to the beach. Not very great along battery life for camera. Pretty nice.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
OK, I will skip this because we don't have much time left. And then what I mentioned briefly subtopics. So opinion extraction means you try to extract the piece of the text which which represents the opinion, then sentiment, classification and orientation means to extract the polarity. So he tried to extract if something is positive or negative and then opinion summarization means to try to give it an overall score. Those are different things. Um? And what we will, what we will do in the hands-on is sent as sentiment, classification, orientation and opinion extraction. We won't try to do opinion summarization.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
OK, and what I also mentioned already is that it's quite important to identify what's the target and what's the source of the opinion.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
OK, then there are a couple of different resources which you can use sentiment corpora. One which we will use in the hands-on.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Is quite net effect, which contains part of speech categories, so that's quite useful, because then we can. We can try to match the gazetteer, but we can also take into account what category they are. What part of speech category there? Also something is a verb or a noun. And just one spoiler that those general purpose lexicons. They don't always perform very well, because there it really depends on the domain or in the context. If they work well or not. OK.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Now thank you very much for your attention and also thank you to Diana. May not. Who's the sentiment analysis expert and also one of the originators of Gates who gave me her opinion mining slides. OK.
