Following the linked data principles. So to start, let's try to take a look at the link data lifecycle. And when I created this slides in 2013 there were 322 vocabularies available in this catalog. Open vocabularies just let me do this. One is the linking open Data Community project and another is the library link Data Incubator group that have vocabularies in the library domain. We have source data and we extract the data. We put the names for things for the instances, so we design an assigned your eyes and we select the vocabularies for modeling the data. And again, only use or only create a new concept when you can find it out in vocabulary. This is the link data principle for and we want. This in order to allow discovery so the users are the consumers can actually traverse the linked data graph. So for interlinking, the data set will we have to create links between the two datasets and we can create links at the instance level and the most popular way to create links is with our DFC also or Al. Same as but these are not the only two types of link that we can create through another data so we can. Concepts or new properties then well, you should link it. So this is actually a very hard task to do because we need to figure out to which data sets were going to link our data set, and this is very challenging because link data is very atera genius in order in terms of vocabularies in terms of formats in terms of data representation or the domains that might be domains that might look different and they're overlapping. More and more challenges when we tried to to perform the integration of two datasets and also the issue of scalability because there are a large numbers of datasets that contain millions or even millions. So an instance of link discovery problem I would say is the entity resolution problem, which is very very famous and very appealing in the semantic web. And this is the problem on deciding whether to entities correspond to the same object in the real world. As it is said, there are different ways to Interlink data set one is, I would say manually, but of course this is the manual exploration of the triples and then you create by hand links. This might not be feasible or scalable when we have very large datasets, so I wouldn't suggest that for. Me automatically or automatically an. You already know that these states that are to your eyes refer to the same individuals and everything. Yes, without saying they are exactly the same, and then when you do inference you will have all these consequences of the same as. HTTP arise yes, so we use HTTPS your eye so the users can look up or the reference information about those your eyes and the third one. Feeling. We don't want isolated bubbles in this linking open data cloud. We don't want the same hours, but we want something that might be very, very similar or are sufficiently similar, and in some cases you can use the two resources interchangeably, while with the esco's exact match we are saying that the two concepts are exactly the same. Some people use the close match. So according to the link data principle three, we should make it available on the web so. So once we have an RDF data set, there are some tasks that will help the consumers to discover our data set. We can make. We can expose the data set in a linked data repository or in a catalog so to allow or to support visibility to our data set an. Talk about the link data lifecycle and there are many proposals or many variations of a lame data lifecycle, and maybe you might know other lifecycles for other type of data and this is not very different from that, so we have some very complex lifecycles. Clean it, we have to integrate it and so on so forth. The most common language for describing RDF datasets is devoid vocabulary. There were Cavaleri of interlinked datasets and we define a data set with the predicate void datasets and we can provide for types of metadata. So the general data meta data is used mainly by the users to identify if data set is of interest to me. So this specifies information about the description of the data contact person organization, some technical features of the datasets, an very important. The Void vocabulary reuses predicates from the Dublin Core and full vocabulary. Other information that is not less important if the license of the data set and we should pay special attention to this because we need to specify the usage condition of our data so we can specify a license for the whole data set. Exactly. So how we can provide also information about resources so we can provide some example resources so the user can have an idea of what your your eyes or your resources look like in your data set. And we can also provide something called your eyes space where we can define just a pattern for the resources. We can also specify the vocabularies that we are using, so usually we list the most relevant vocabularies. So for instance in music brain the main vocabularies ontology, the music ontology. But there are also many other vocabularies used in Musicbrainz and this property. We can create partitions based on classes or on properties so I can say well this this subset of Musicbrainz which I called Musicbrainz Group. The second task is the interlinking task and this involves the creation of the RDF links usually to external datasets. Access mechanism so we can provide a UI look up in point yes. It's possible to prevent the access on the part of the data in. Some data are still not ready or or are more private. Sorry. We can provide sparkling point or the RDF dump which is just a compressed file with your data set in. But there's also a special group called the Linking Open Data Cloud and you can ask for. Finally we need to validate our datasets. There are different types of tests we can test the Accessibility so to make sure that all that your eyes are available online and then dereferenceable. We can also check the parsing on the syntaxes of our data. And as I said before, Ann Berry has said yesterday the data can be stored in many different ways. So one thing allowed I like about the pedia is that they have the names of the things in the in the rise of the resources. You need to take care of all these details and you need to look at. It's not useful if they just give you a 404 error when you try to access them and then the this last part of manageability will is to issues your your eyes in a witch that you can manage. So the vocabularies as you might have learned in the morning, they modeled the concepts on the relationship between these concepts in a domain and we want to reuse the terms from well known vocabularies. Don't reinvent the wheel. OK, there are hundreds of vocabularies available on the web and for sure there is. Well, there are many different ways to handle it.