[0.0s - 29.0s]
First, I would like to thanks to the.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Organizers for giving me this opportunity to come and give this lecture, but first I would like to tell you about something about the Faculty of Polymer Technology, because I believe that there there is 50% of Slovenian here who never heard about this faculty, so it's not really known. It's quite new and. Young, it's located in slowing graduates, which is 120 kilometers away from here. We have 128 students and what we do. Teach but also now we started more doing on research. We are the only one who has a reactor which is here in which we can produce any polymer in a quantity of two key approximately 2 kilos, 2 and half. So this quantity? Why it's important? Because this quantity then enable us to make some materials. So make composites to add some fillers and so on on the twin screw extruder for example, we have injection molding machines so we can prepare for example samples for mechanical properties determination and of course we have some equipment for polymer characterization. This is the most fancy part of our equipment is flash DST. There seem. Which here we can hit and hit samples with. 40,000 degrees Celsius per second, so per second yes and cool it with something like 4000 degrees per second, which is important for processing of polymers. Of course, we can measure the mechanical properties and thermal properties. We have many more, but that will be all for today. We have also we developed some cooperation with other States and universities from around, so we cooperate with Budapest with Austria in the urban Swiss and we just start it also with three Esther with Sylvia Murchison Lab.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So today I will talk about. Epoxy composites, we'd get a phenoxide so there is a distinction or should be made a distinction distinction between graphene oxide and graphite oxide. Graphene oxide exists only in water solution. Once you dry it, you get graphite oxide. With the same with the same chemical structure, but there are layers bound together and you cannot really separate them anymore except if you dissolve them in water again. And even that is not really perfect here. What was the aim of how work was to prepare nanocomposites without drying after it synthesis? And the influence to investigate the influence of those particles on properties, specially mechanical properties of epoxy nanocomposites. And we wanted to apply selective plasma etching on this to determine the morphology of those composites. So.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
What we did. We used two types of graphite powders with 130 micrometers particle size, average particle size and 1200 micrometers. Well, some common common system of appoxee raising, so raising and hardener, we synthesized graphene oxide with this modified camera method. But at the end we didn't try it. We kept it in a maternal slurry. The. Image appears not also not to be too good, but anyway better than what is usually done because usually everyone uses this dry Gray.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Jeff at dockside. So what we did we use this we determined first the concentration of graphene oxide in methanol and then we diluted it a little bit just to disperse more particles. Because this. This slurry is something like 8%, but it's very viscous. It's like Duff. So then we added this hardener which is MI and MI very readily and fast reacts with graphene oxide and so this way we actually modify the surface of graphite graphene oxide. Then we mixed epoxy resin with this goap and added some water hardener. So we prepared the composites in with concentration zero to 1% in the form of this Dawg Pound shape to determine the mechanical properties. Of those composites, so after the synthesis of.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
The phenoxide we perform, XPS analyzes and we see that this ratio between oxide and carbon is higher with smaller particles, so smaller graphite of smaller particles gives a little bit more oxidized product.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
This was also confirmed by XRD. We see that the layer thickness is slightly bigger, but this is not as I said, not graphene oxide, it's graphite oxide. We determined the particle size and.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
It is interesting that although we started with 130 micrometres and 1.2 millimeters, big particles at the end, we don't see very big difference in particle size, so it's on average 1.4 and 2.1 micrometer, and we can see from the figure here that all the particles are approximately up to six and half micrometers. Although I must say that these numbers. Are more this method is valid for circle circle particles, not flat? So this might be a little different. We use those scanning electron microscopy, but here we were not able to make real one layer thick particles to determine the. The size, so the numbers are too big.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Then of course we cure this. We followed the reaction on DSE and we see that entropy of reaction was decreasing with addition of graphene oxide. However, the pick temperature was approximately the same. But what was more, more important, the glass transition temperature. So this is the temperature at which material becomes soft and usually not used anymore about their temperature. Increased for something like. 9 degrees. And particle.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The distribution we use this oxygen plasma etching. Here we see for this was a Nejd and then edge samples. Here already we see that particles are very nice, very evenly distributed, but however there are also quite big, so more than approximately 10 nanometers. The backdrop of this method is that we're not really able to see nanoparticles as non also apart of those graphene oxide sheets. Definitely this the distributed in as sheets, but we don't actually see it, specially due to this. So it's also surface roughness surface become more rough, so we cannot distinguish really between the roughness of polymer and layers sometimes. But anyway, here we see that particle size there are much smaller than measured by Sam. End of

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Course mechanical properties of materials are always or at least mostly most important. We see that young models increased for something like 3035%. Higher increase was observed with smaller particle size, but on the other side, tensile strength increased for this bigger particle size and also when we look at the strainer break those. Epoxy raising Sir very. What's the word? They break very fast and this strainer break was slightly increased for zero, 20.25 and 0.5%, which is quite good. So.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Include graphene oxide can be added to curing gauges as dispersion in methanol, but it would be probably even better to you to use a dispersion in voter. We use this methanol because it's easier to remove it from this. Acute engage and then. Surface is modified which also improves this mechanical properties because we have chemical bond between the nanoparticles and raising Young's modulus is increased and the optimum and mechanical properties are improved and the optimum concentration of would be somewhere between 0.25 and 0.5. So it's quite small commodity is enough to. Get significant improvement in mechanical properties and oxygen plasma etching appears to be a valuable tool for particle size and particle size distribution. Determined determination so the anti would like to thanks for financing and I would like thank you for your attention. Thank you.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Very much for this interesting lecture. I'm sure there must be some questions. Yes. Thank you for representation and I would just wanted to ask if this nanocomposites are able to be processed further. I mean, are they able to be machine worked or polished after the all the curing process? Yes, of course. I mean usually this epoxy is prepared as a finished finished material, so product, but somehow sometimes they just need to be polished or some luck can be put on to improve the surface. But usually this technique is used to make finished part already. Questions. If I've got one, so if I understood you, you made a kind of bulk composite. Yes, yes. Do you know what could you do? Like a core shell nanocomposite with a single flake? Coated with epoxy this I think it would be possible if we used water solution instead of methanol because in methanol it's polar methanol is polar but we made also except day of methanol slurry and it is still a stacked so we increased. We enable the polymer to go inside also to but not really made this. It's like with nanocomposites with montmorillonite. We usually say it's interpolated nanocomposite, but if we used water then I guess it would be much better distribution. But also then we should prepare for each composite. Just this go away. Not this one mass, but also made more. A smaller concentration and this way it would. It would be probably possible. We plan on another diploma work on this topic. Thank you and good luck. Thank you.
