The title of my presentation is very long, so planning ahead stream driven link data access and update budget constraints. Updating Peachtree once we can actually get to refresh 2 fresh results, we can get actually one more result than our previous previous alternative. In this solution, we propose to select data in our local cache based on their degree based on their selectivity. So a short summary for basic solutions, selectivity based maintenance for different kind of query will propose two different kind of solution. But keep in mind that the current solution is only for the current window. In this impact based maintenance we would have, we would consider not only the data in the current window but also the data. So in our paper we we, we derive, we define the number of results in the current and future window's impact, and we give details of our how to derive this impact for both big query and aggregate query. More understandable sentence is that we started problem of how can we efficiently access sparkle endpoint in RDF stream processing because they already have stream processing. We assume a fixed budget for different windows. The next question would be how much budget we should save for the future Windows, and we actually give details in our paper and. The key point is that we need to spend budget on the ones that has the largest impact or windows. So the X axis here is the number of edges to a fully connected graph. Imperative we show this accumulated outdated results over the course of experiment or cause of iteration and win. That is from Twitter search API which is a different API from the stream API. From this use case, we observe that first assessing background knowledge is very expensive, is very costly. We need to maintain our local cache by accessing our original remote background knowledge. So the problem is how can we allocate budget efficiently? The way we, the way we allocate budget efficiently, is that first we model our query by a bipartite graph and 2nd we exploit the bipartite graph for solutions. In the service cloud side, we have a local cache that also cashed relevant data to the stream. The first class is is that the first of the service class having a basic graph pattern query and the second class is the service classes on.