[0.0s - 29.0s]
I think that a few questions and few challenges for cleaning companies and cleaning services. In Contacts with antimicrobial coatings, in hospitals were not mentioned yet and I think this is stressed out here so.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
OK, on one point they these antimicrobials. We heard so far that can benefit in prevention of spreading of infections. But on the other hand there are also questions we've heard that there are so many different antimicrobial. Agents that can be implemented in the code things. And actually, what is happening if this code things are coming in contact with established cleaning methods? What is actually happening with the agent agents which are in this coatings are we've heard that everything all that coatings are getting destroyed eventually? But what is happening actually with that agents? What is? Are they actually then washed away in the environment or in the water that is cleaned or? What is that? It can be damaged then to the really the environment or where they will end up. That's a big question. We've heard a lot of silver nanoparticles are used these days, and after so many washing cycles the they're not active anymore. What is happening with this silver and that ends up so? That I think that. One of the biggest issues and questions also in our Michae consortium and that we have to actually be aware of it and think about it. And there is also one that Mark stressed out that. Is there any possibility of these new agents and if microorganisms will develop resistance against them? And yeah, because we don't really know it's starting to be implemented in hospitals. We don't know what is the long term effect, and I think that we should. We should all be aware of this as well.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And yeah, I think this is like some Dutch legislation. Probably no. What to Sir office or?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So. Yeah, so I guess that. Everything that comes to the market has to be approved also not only the. Antimicrobial services, but also the cleaning. Agents and cleaning and insect bio sites and everything. So everything should be controlled through this but. I think that I stressed out the most important questions. That we have to be all aware of what is actually happening with that active ingredients after. The antimicrobial coatings are like slowly being destroyed or not active anymore. So yeah, that's from my side and mark. So any questions?
