Today the first example is the Corporation Sir Ship, which is about survivability for ships here in seven European countries. Participate in their cooperate and coordinate their activities on funding for R&D projects on the issue of how to rescue people in the case of collision, grounding and fire on board. The Corporation group keep moving there in there is the participation of five countries, and these countries have defined a joint program for the duration of three years starting in 2007 and running until 2009, and the program should be implemented with several calls and the first core with the title mobility for elderly people was done in 2007 with a volume of 3 million euro and in total they received 28 proposals and three of these proposals have been. Negotiation for funding. Four countries are doing this and the background is that sleeping it seems to cause really substantial share of Rd crashes 15% and the objectives of the initiative first of all, to understand that problem and Secondly to identify effective countermeasures. To be the third option for public R&D funding of transport research in Europe. And there's the explicit which of the partners to intensify and to extend the Corporation beyond the pilot level and pilot ever was what we had so far. And this also includes an increased or increased budgets for the Transmission Funding Corporation. The partners agree to launch at a minimum of two new transnational program corporations per year and at least one joint Corp. For a joint program of duration of five years and then the European Commission can decide to put 1/3 of this national common pot on top. Their net wrote, is concentrating on Rd technical issues. Please correct me with not and. As I said, the coordinate design permanent contact we have memorandum of understanding between both networks and in addition to transport introduces now a plenary group which provides a suitable forum for this convergence and we invite all transport related error Nets to become a member of this. The concept of the European Research Area, which was introduced in 2001. And the key objectives better use of scientific resources in Europe and an increase of Europe's competitiveness in general. And one approach there is to reduce the fragmentation of research efforts and a better coordination of research activities at national and European level. Thank you for your attention. Scheme was designed to provide targeted support for the coordination and mutual opening of National Research programs, and Secondly to establish long-term cooperation between national programs. So you're not. First of all exchange information. So what has been achieved from Bionic by the unit scheme? So one can certainly say that there's been made progress in the reduction of the fragmentation across the European research area, and we have the European Commission so far. Is funding or have has funded 71 units which are covering more, less or thematic areas that you can imagine. And then the transport is a network that comprises national ministries from 13 European countries that are in charge of transport research programs and they all together represent the national funding volume of approximately 300 million euro per year. The focus of your transport is on publicly stimulated policy and technology research as well as on demonstration for all transport modes. So one can say that insurance would serve to the program owners and managers. This is to be given from the national programs. So you can see on the left hand side the Gray area which is representing the national transport research programs they comprise the major share of public money which is spent in Europe for transport research.