This kind of predictive approaches. By neighboring the function to predict the function of some genes which are now in this in this graph and which are in this graph, predicted as close to known verges OK. Another issue is the fact that in this supervised problem you have a very large number of negative examples, of course, and you have a few positive examples, so you have a lot of absent. So it's. And all this or part of these mechanisms will be in the email at work, OK? The idea is to use experimental data. Prior knowledge as we have already seen, and statistical in terms to unravel biological networks and also to predict the. You have metabolic and regulatory networks, or you are putting putting into Action Network and regulatory networks. I would say that we need to share data and I think there is a big demand for the kind of data repository where we can share for the dynamical data. To reduce dimension, and usually it's used as a privilege preliminary task for the other approaches. And of course we want this model because we want to be able to simulate and predict the behavior of this network. It's just you want to we can trust. In a, in an unsupervised or supervised way. Define the learning of the concept of regulation is the following. Or one one protein and 1G. So for instance, you want to predict if this VI is a transcription factor for the iPod. This study. Maybe some some of you know Prolog language and things like that, so you have predicate and predicate it just. It was done for the put input interaction networks and the idea is the following its own ideas as before. But now you have no order and you have two proteins and we want to know if there interact or not. Want to predict this interaction. Addresses problems it's to make to do metric learning or kernel learning, and maybe you know about the work of your money. She and colleagues in 2005 and the first introduced this kind of approach. So also we did some work in this domain and the idea was to say, well, we're going to make defines a problem as a regression problem.