To this same, we are going to propose a semi supervised version of a metric multidimensional scaling algorithms that take into account. I will introduce the torrential multidimensional scaling algorithm that we are going to consider in our application. Finally, we will get a sharpness perimental result in a real problem and we will comment showing conclusions and future research trends. The approach an actual issue First D mapping algorithm is applied to generate the war map Nash, a clustering algorithm is run in the map to a group. The terms into seven groups. Show to compare the partition induced by the map by the human expert. Nash, the entropy measure an which small values shows yet little overlapping among different topics. Finally, the mutual information enforced, particularly about the position of the more specific terms in the war map. We see that this supervisor techniques reduce significantly the overlapping among different topics in the war map. You can see for each time that the semi supervised algorithms achieve an entropy value or zero point 36, while the classical MDF. We have proposed a semi supervised version of the iteration and these algorithms. Then your order has been applied to the analysis of the semantic relations among terms in pastoral databases. Finally, future research will focus on the development of new Semi supervised dimension reduction techniques using the same approach. Well iteration MD etch algorithms is a popular visualization algorithm and that helps to discover the underlying structure of high dimensional data. Of times in a different class is an IT shellfish from Halo Indiscriminant power due to the unsupervised nature of the algorithm. Several search engines provide a categorisation for the shop set of documents show. In this talk, our goal is to visualize them relationships. Because this is a very difficult and time consuming tasks show in many. Taking into account a categorisation for associative document provided by human expert. Well, our approach is a. First defined semi supervised similarity between terms that consider the document class labels an this semi supervised similarity should reflect whether two terms are related to the same semantic topic and also it should reflect the semantic proximity between different terms. This algorithm looks for an object configuration in a low dimensional space and such that the interpreter distances are approximately preserved. Are the following. First, it is based on an efficient linear algebraic operation such as the singular value decomposition. First, it'll allow discrimination power and that is due to the unsupervised nature. Different topics in the warmup generated overlap strongly in the map show if we want to consider the map to a split the different topics of the textual correlation, we will fail and also it is affected by the curse of dimensionality. Considering the labels in the space of document. This relation will allow us to define a supervisor similarity between terms considering the class labels show SMB supervising measure can be defined that should become large for terms that are correlated with the same categories. Well a we have a supervisor measure, but this measure will reflect Josh the semantic categories of the textual correlation. In this way, we have a fair share. Well, it is interesting to a comment and at the same supervisor similarity half an interesting properties for a multidimensional scaling algorithm. If you take a look at the histogram for the foreign unsupervised similarity, such as the cosine an. Supervised similarity histogram is much larger than for the unsupervised similarity. This discharge guessed that the semi supervised similarity will be pressure with better for by multidimensional scaling algorithms and is less sensible to the problem to the curse of dimensionality.