Talk about local image features, or more specifically about the completeness of a particular set of local features with respect to the information that is contained in an image. Is that these three features that obviously capture really different parts of the image so they cover different image content? The second we, it's quite significant that the straightedges obviously have a very bad completeness on the forest and products texture databases, which mainly include natural content. We don't have many straight edges here. We see that the lower detector is most efficiently complemented by the asphalt junctions and the maximally stable extremal regions on average over this datasets that we investigated. The maximally stable extremal regions and their subjunction detector, we get a quite significant improvement on the completeness, and especially we get results that are almost as good as taking all the six detectors depicted here at once. And 3rd, we found that the Harris affine detector doesn't compliment the lower detector more than the Hessian affine detector, which was at first surprising for me because I expected to hear Steven detector to be more of a corner detector, so it should complement the props given by lower better than the hashing offended tector, which basically extracts plot similar to the lower detector. And it also gives rise to the problem of mapping the space of all detectors. Thanks for your attention and feel free to ask questions. In general we use local features to gain robustness against different problems, and we want to decrease the data volume significantly and what we're doing implicitly is we want to preserve important information that is contained in an image, and the question is, can we measure that? We propose we want to interpret feature detection and description as a coding scheme very similar to what we do when we use the JPEG compression. A measure from this and an evaluation scheme we need to solve 3 problems. First of all, we need to representation for what we consider to be relevant image content. How can we represent the relevant image content? We propose to just derive an entropy density, denoted pH here from the local image statistics you see are shaded relief plot of this entropy density on the upper right. One might see that this is basically the entropy of a Gaussian variable, so we assume each local image Patch to be the sample of a Gaussian process, and we derive the entropy from the power spectrum P. That is, be cause the pixels in the local Patch have correlations that we do not know, so we have to take that into account and that is actually implicitly solved by computing the entropy in the power spectrum. And then we assume each local feature to require a certain number of bits. And the Hellinger distance is basically 1/2 of the distance between the piercing points on the unit sphere that these densities give us, and it's interesting the heling US metric is related to the callback lifeblood emergence, which is probably much more popular, but the kullback Leibler divergent is not a metric, so we couldn't use it here having a higher divergent in this case wouldn't mean we have a higher or lower completeness necessarily, so that's why we use the heling US metric. OK, let's have a look at the evaluation scheme that we propose it's. Having one image, we detect different sets of features here.