In early 21st century approach to computing for different spheres. The unobtrusive supportive and assisting role of technology in improving human experience. Printing 4050 billion devices in less than any K. That your Internet, which we call Internet of Things. Of personal, public and population level, and here is an important thing about control. So you have this metric. We need a completion paralic that actually, which also human population properties and reversely capture and compute with Richard, and find great representations of the real world problems. Who is diagnosis with the? If you go to the search engine and type in things like, how should I manage my hypertension? 60% of the physicians either use or are using Internet. That people are coming to the. However, at the end of the day, from this search based paradigm, there are many suggestions but less inside that market. Understand and take action that's already. But will it translate into the action? So do markets acquire knowledge about hypertension? He's really knowledgeable now after having looked at Google and from Alpha. What do we need to do to help Mark? We need to what we use a human centric competition paradigm then semantically integrated, correlate understanding reason over important things. People live in the physical world while interacting with the cyber and social worlds. Subsequently, the answer may be substituting spices or salt intake. That may help reduce sodium intake, aiding in controlling hypertension. It says that humans and machines operate to solve complex problems while. Uh. What is the properties basically facility semantic integration of multimodal and patisserie? And that is truly still level of abstraction. At the Quantified Self conference, where expenses of analyzing and visualizing data from PC logical sensors are present, the social aspects that are coming. And we talk about human utilizes machine to solve insoluble problems. So for example, you could bring in integration of visual observations using their knowledge of the domain and social experiences. Operations leverage observations from sensors, knowledge and experiences from people who understand. And this statement really caught my eye making machines disappear into the fabric of our life. And we also engaged in the process the background knowledge with a new things, and we enhanced that. Even if people do not believe that most mathematics system for it is only because they do not realize how complicated life piece.