[0.0s - 29.0s]
So glad to be here. I hope you would result in an exciting new vision that gives us a glimpse into things to come in relative technologies for future. I call it the physical cyber social computing. In early 21st century approach to computing for different spheres. I talked about competing for your experience is about 2008 anile position.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Talking that regards. So. Completely different experience encompases the ascential role of technology in human centric. Vision. That we have to emphasize is. The unobtrusive supportive and assisting role of technology in improving human experience. What kind of implies that you would expect the center of the world, not the computing? Think about. How many computing? We have to generate speaking translate. What is there in the near world? What is left in the world around us into the form into the limited form that computer understands and we comply with the rules of computing. Thank you, stick that. We're not subsequent to computing, and we didn't have to work that hard. Or the computing for or Magna problems into things. That computer can move, and mapping it back to what humans need and can use.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So all the people crying there been many visionaries who have talked about.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Very interesting visions one is. This by recliner he did phenomenally important work. Over you know quite available. This is from his 1961. It says that humans and machines operate to solve complex problems while. Uh. Machines formulate the problems advancing beyond solving the formulated problems. If you can be. The next year, I think it is pretty. Budget rental because English is an expected development, being cooperative interaction between men and electronic computers, it will you know, all very close coupling between human electing members of the partnership. The Meat Games are as this is interesting to let computer specially formulated thinking as the analysis and investigation of formulated problems. Reading it early. Investing.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The other. Very exciting vision was given by. You gotta work. And we talk about human utilizes machine to solve insoluble problems. So computing is force multiplier for humans computing as something that complements human abilities to solve problems that humans themselves cannot solve.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
This one was another. Very balancing work or artist vision. At that point, computing the computer for the 21st century. And this statement really caught my eye making machines disappear into the fabric of our life. Very profound statement. Really exactly. Today you are very cognizant of your interactions with the computers. Where we want to go is where it is Fargo national. But what I want to. Distinguish here is that it is lot more beyond what came out of my priceless work. This work led to disabuse of work at conferences, called Limitless Computing, Unified Area, and much of that. If you look at the writing of Mark and it is understandable. 1991 time frame was about how there is a white board with which winning tracks. So it is not about intelligence at interface. It is not about. Natural interfaces and such. That still has missed out on very important thing. Yes, you can interact like you can do gesture computing. But where is it that the computer actually understands? Bit conceps that human is interesting that you need practical way. And the level of the abstraction that women. Thanks. Alright, so yesterday I made a point about high level abstractions. I'll do that more often. More of that bank. That is wonderful too. And there is the key difference between what I would outline is this computer vision of computing for human experience. These always requests company.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Makoti talk about basically artificial intelligence making machines smarter. And read them valuable. A billionaire ability. Right, and that's the EI vision.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So when you when you light them up. From the inside. Russian central region. With the admitted visions, human computer interfaces and more human centric vision of what I called computing for human experience, you can see that you know there is a. You can lay out these visions where depending upon the importance of the machine in the equation and what is expected of human in making the things actually work, it happens. And what I'm interested in is more on that side, except that I of course like that part of my. Nice work, but why is this working on every you know machine becoming part of the fabric of your life? That aspect I very much at the last part is, you know, to do to achieve, but much more interested in machine being in machine. By that I mean computing communication devices we completely subservient. Two human needs interests, experiences that were experiences is ever anything that we do anyway. You are experiencing this talk you are experiencing talking to somebody on the phone. Farmers in the field and his experiences about tending to the crop.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So we can look at a series of. Significant challenges in sustainability. In healthcare insecurity, I've outlined several of those things. For example, management of chronic disease. Clearly, this is where you can. My. Formulate the human experience aspect of it. Back you're improving the day-to-day life quality of life that experience that you will have of living. Through the airport. That is what we want with you.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So. There are. Number of course. Now the challenges of this kind significantly is quite a complex and. From John one human. Even if people do not believe that most mathematics system for it is only because they do not realize how complicated life piece. So what we want to do? So what this means and what this is all see is that. Um? Will be able to achieve competing for human experience. We really have to incompass the real world complexities. If you think about much of a significant part of company that you do, we always have to simplify. We always have to think about what. How can we best formulate the real world around us? The problem that we face into some variables and their values. Into the limitation of programming language into the expression of the world around us in a test or single modality at a time, image or or if you remember or it's not. And usually most of the system won't be with him if there is at the end of the different modalities. If it comes down to human to integrate in his brain. So we will really have to leave here with real complexities. And, um. Would we know solutions from the algorithms will happen? Got it and delivered. Admission would still presume directly.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Now things are changing. Number of things that make number out. There is a quantum shift. You know our computational environment in the environment around us, where we can potentially be much more complex world around us. Happening cause? Humans can become first class participant in the computing formula to use. Now here in the past has been to big files, and even with a slice of the viewers simplified. Present that in the computational form, give some answer translated back to say here the only partial solution to what you're looking for. And that could be for our parent has been significantly divide. Off human participants we won't have very intelligent Human Services for implementing significant abilities. Why did you get involved there? The crowdsourcing that we have seen lately is clearly. A fast. But this week and we can start thinking about hey processing that results into such significant knowledge bases Wikipedia. What can we do? That is big your that perhaps the same. It is kind of partial. You lookout resume with the crowd can be applied even in the real time decision making. Problems ha and have you some examples today. So the computing are is no longer there about sending it to a computer and getting something back. It's no longer about just using your PDA, it is no longer about making things run on a cloud. It's a comprehensive combination. Off more than two million people that can communicate on the Internet with data or more than 5 million with voice. And. Billions of devices. Soon there will be. Printing 4050 billion devices in less than any K. That your Internet, which we call Internet of Things. In the fabric that we can make. An indefinite salt may allow these devices are the humans to participate in such a way that the problems can be solved at every level. Of all the displays of complexity in the real world. So. We have this Internet of Things or Internet of Everything's where you have devices you have humans on the social media, you have databases and so forth on the web.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And then why directly? Maple producing at least that beyond this internal everything base infrastructure, so at least the way I will create the vision that is outlined in things that I've got on Internet of Things and Internet of Things. Is that much of it is still focused on making the data available? Capturing the deeper agree, getting the data, cooking the data into last or blueprint. Find it back. Lastly body vision of big data. We give you another talk very soon on going from, you know, from Big Data Smartdata where I talk about shifting that reader, but here. I would present is fairly low, but I'm off for vision of physical psychosocial computing. As an application level semantic level. File the system or which I don't need. Is impressive. Yeah.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So what has changed? We need to. We need a completion paralic that actually, which also human population properties and reversely capture and compute with Richard, and find great representations of the real world problems.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Consider mark. Who is diagnosis with the? Be it with hypertension.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Patient Denmark wants a solution. See at the end of the day. The focus needs to be what is Marquette? Does my head about what is hypertension? How do you define it? Does not care about. How is my hypothesis dealing with respect to others? Yes, to some extent, but really, what markets and password is a good habit? This big difference. He doesn't need it, he doesn't want data. He doesn't want the information he wants to do something that solves this problem. So. If you go to the search engine and type in things like, how should I manage my hypertension? Will get love articles some very nicely examples. This is Denmark, exactly what he should do, not really. It's not personalized. He does not understand number of situations that Mark is. I'll shortly anybody listings.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
There is an over here, so in the search based approach. Besides the document, you also can't find. Things that I've come as a result of social interactions on the bed. And our people. 60% of the physicians either use or are using Internet. Or are you just using social networks? For medical problems.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
That people are coming to the. Online understand that up. So we look for health information for ourselves online. And for each other. And 2/3 of us talk with someone else about what we find online.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Then give me a set of online research for health information.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And majority are interested in looking for experiences of someone like me.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So. However, at the end of the day, from this search based paradigm, there are many suggestions but less inside that market. Understand and take action that's already.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Application. The next step is this so called solution engineer. Office Wolfram Alpha is a. Good example. And then. If you look for hypertension. It will give you a lot of information, a lot of services. How many people have hypertension? How many people have prehypertension? What are the demographics? Now, this is yes indeed, some form of reliable information. But will it translate into the action? Isn't this what you go to the doctor for? So do markets acquire knowledge about hypertension? He's really knowledgeable now after having looked at Google and from Alpha. This information is not personalized, not potential relevant, and may not believe in to take an action.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So these are the things that you get today. So.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
What do we need to do to help Mark? What you need to do is that we need to be able to give Mark actually with information. That's beyond searches. Search engines. We need to what we use a human centric competition paradigm then semantically integrated, correlate understanding reason over important things. Multimodal and multi sensory observations to provide actionable information. I mean these pointers earlier that much of our decision making. Involves multi sensory, but I'm going information. We don't really have the text. We don't really family basics video. We learn all of those things. We've had our five senses.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Net brings us to physical psychosocial computing.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So if we. For the kind of problem with Maxalt is interesting mark at heart. We have the possibility. Go back into three different worlds. The physical world. Which can be measured through all kind of devices around us. In case this devices can be part of Superman made with, this is also so they can turn on like panic. Microsoft Connect again as soon as you enter the room. Start observing your level of activities. Invidia Rockwell move. Something else will be covered, so it's so whether the objective it needs to measure pressure. The other is social people are going to talk about all kinds of health conditions. They say. I think I took this drug and I have this side effect. And North Healthcare sites on social networks. A lot of forums for all discussions. And there are cyber. This is highly component. Here is always behind. It is without knowledge update. An answer to my question is at the intersection of.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
All these.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So. People live in the physical world while interacting with the cyber and social worlds. We need to be able to provide.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
That is why. Where? All these words come together seamlessly. Again, this level of representation. And computation to address the kind of challenges that Mark is interested in solving. And in the context of blood pressure thing that my market segmentation that Mark has, it is possible there. Subsequently, the answer may be substituting spices or salt intake. That may help reduce sodium intake, aiding in controlling hypertension. And that coming out with that actionable information. Is what we.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
No.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
How do you make slime?

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Most American interactions. Today we are seeing increasing interactions across these three words. So on this slide I have outlined. Cycle. Social, physical, cyber or cyber physical and social physical interactions and see examples and I go through that in the next few slides. But importantly. We need to realize that in many of these cases, we need to be able to continuous this whole thing. Is this needs to happen? Maybe already just nothing makes the time is not wait and so information around frequency and few weeks to change. So if you're going to provide experience for the human, you need to be able to continuously management techniques. And of course the multi model and multi sensory.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
For May shun. This is probably one of my most important points here today. How? And there are two parts, and to some extent, and I'm using pedagogy simplifying. But one part is what we call horizontal complications or is into operations. Anne. What is the properties basically facility semantic integration of multimodal and patisserie? Observations. So. You may remember yesterday in giving the example of a small. We had lot of data and we were taking all the data in the data comes to different modalities. May be a data that is coming from smart phone. It may be coming from observing. You know in three more of being maybe data coming from accelerometer many phrases. These are multimodal data, they can be multi sensory also. By using the big knowledge base, I don't think there better. I'm creating semantic integration of all the data, and even if this is the first, this one is a wait. I'm able to map it to the relevance of weight or pulse or heart rate. Observation 28 pin set. All that is available. Too bad particulare situation. Say ask or blood pressure water. And I think I've been working on semantic semantics for quite some time, I think since about 1988. How to make progress in any way? I think an album. The second one I mentioned, it is very excited and is something that I think would is more or less perhaps. Well, most likely grounded. And that is truly still level of abstraction. So the vertical operation is it translating from data information, knowledge, wisdom, using the background knowledge. This pyramid is well known. Absolutely, if you have it, I think about this way I made for quite some time. Your data, information, knowledge, wisdom within so knew about it. What is important is what is the computational capability whereby you not talking about one layer of these energy to try, but instead. The complication of parental converse that heater or information to something that is actionable. So this is where is difficult opportunity. For new research company.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
It's coming. Leslie some steps from existing computing devices.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Company. So physical cyber systems? This. What tweets? So this cycle. So maybe it's a way, for example a physical server system. Then by monitoring fees, I can tell that The Black Keys work.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
The. Set every car autonomous driving vehicle that Google is for example. That's also an example of. Sacrificial system. It has a lot of information about, you know Maps and. Number of other things. The loss of transportation is excessive psychopath, and of course it has full physical monitor.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Here are a few examples of physical cyber systems. The whole bunch of applications out there. That use a lot of knowledge about medical and health issues in major VR, and I you know, by metrics and other things or asking questions and.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
You off. Very pleasing number of options on cyber social systems. One very good example is patientslikeme. Or 20 amp. Yeah, people going to talk about. Their experiences as a patient so that others can benefit from that. So spacious like me and you can ask. From pictures like you for that musicians who have similar situations where they do. Or do we only? What was their experience? They started on this new medication that your record is given. Indignant side effect. These are things you can find out, so that is very good example of cyber social system.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
And legal what happens is that you can find. Along this line of physical, psychosocial whole bunch of stuff. Quantified self movement. Measuring all kinds of data and available in mapping and putting it on the web. At the Quantified Self conference, where expenses of analyzing and visualizing data from PC logical sensors are present, the social aspects that are coming. These things are happening today already in each of the pieces. This exact stuff, right?

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
There are different ideas than friends. And not be.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Cool. What we need is actually doing that is greater.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
What we need is significant. You want to involve it. But not the whole involvement that you require symbols to write macros and rattles and data about translators and have stuff. Not that. Moving forward out didn't work. But the experience is the event those kinds of. So for example, you could bring in integration of visual observations using their knowledge of the domain and social experiences. That should be the part of this. You know, connect connecting all this kind of data and I guess.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
So what do you? Operations leverage observations from sensors, knowledge and experiences from people who understand. Correlate and personal solutions. All of this is.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Together and instead of those things being indicated, they come there, there, together. Here is where semantics would play. A crucial role in bridging the semantic gap between different sets of types, modality, media types, observations.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Back insights, so in the example.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Of map. Who? You know is being observed by some sensors that we measure in blood pressure. Let's say I pretend you know.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Anne. Then we use the observation. What does it mean? What does that number mean? So you got a number of 93 in your back story pressure. What does it mean? But I suppose it's perceptually original.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Is also influenced by. Is the knowledge of other people there or somebody in your house? We are father would say yeah I got my 19. You know when I was 50 years old you know and then I was on this medication. It may be that you look up in as guideline for how you classify hypertension.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
And that combines, you know, for this one.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Qualities. Is Hungary warspite?

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Actions with the system and the person who reaches out to his friends and say, hey you, what did you do? Does anybody have what I have with fish is like we need this thing so even your private network.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
And this. We experienced this through, you know. We 19. Perception actions. This would have taken and share them.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
And we also engaged in the process the background knowledge with a new things, and we enhanced that. Remember the user system that I discussed yesterday. Make sure mine Wikipedia prior knowledge so we can do that. We can more constantly evolves knowledgable mechanisms.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
This is work that is being done. Then this background knowledge, new observations all continue to be processed in these semantic perception cycle.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
NASA latest news.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
No, it would be. What is important is that the source light, so this person is a Asian way somebody like me. And that.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Is national Nexus between 80 and 90.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Now. Generally speaking, for essay application Mail. 18 management you cannot manage activity through early intervention. Such information, however. Or should issue biggest initial haseloh official Fire Protection. So there are some studies that says that. The initial emails. It should be managing hypertension, diastolic at the lower level. Then this seems 90 days or so. We should try to make it your Bureau or.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Fire drill. Answer The correct reaction. Should we take a special item?

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
And how many years have the same sort of same social economy? Cultural? Make it at home. That have recreational hypotension and how?

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
In this event and you get experience from people around you, they will share their physiological observation. Also, when you create a private network of people who you know in fact work together just the same way people today share, there may be running and jogging data. The. If Jason will be in kind of situation.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
Same thing can happen in this situation. Preparations are taken and. Ah, you know. They figure out that really. The first initialize, the issues of herbs and spices are so soft.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
So let's look at it. The machine perception which belongs to the category of particle. I. Operators and perception. Since we think is the act of something that I will talk about yesterday activation recycling, process of observation and generation of explorations to transform massive amounts of raw data. Actionable information in the form.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
Special. So we are quantifying ourselves. And we bring all the data on Internet.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
This is a very interesting example. This is a gentleman. He's a professor at UCSD. Another person an. Interesting thing is that he himself diagnosed that he is Crohn's disease. So he was using all these sensors on leave and that led him to find that. Here's some information. And then get into research. So it's not the tradition, but you know this officer, that human self identified. But he is good.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
This is. So the idea there is that will follow those observations to close. This is the knowledge that is equally.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
Any? And you want to do that enough.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
Should be honest field so that is where we have the indelible frame.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
But supersede. And So what can we learn from cognitive models of perception? As a team, you know and? You get for that is the prior knowledge.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
That is something that is not being done quite a bit. I'll go through this part in fast because I think you are exposed to that little bit, but basically you are trying to have a cycle of explanations and discrimination. Continuing to improve your understanding of the situation, explanation is to try to reach at some interesting Hanover section, and this Commission is to say what more can I find out? What more can I? Normal or not, so that I can refine my understanding the universe.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
I don't know. So.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
What you want to do is do a task that you know we had our attention and focus your attention.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
In the whole process, use of prior knowledge comes becomes very important. And this is where I would like to be in an important point. Is there was a time? Where are? Yeah, this is the actor Peter Darby at Google, he said in 2005 that. All of these have no role to play in search engines. And I responded immediately. I disagree there isn't it? I had a company myself, similar web company that I found in 1999 and we've Patrick semantic drift or symmetrical for search personalization and interacting advertisement and so and so forth where we basically giving it knowledge from multiple sources and use that knowledge to improve the search and implement symmetric symmetric browsing semantic path. Computations ranking in terms of relationship exception in size. Um? And then it was interesting. I did have a challenge the after a couple of years where Peter was in the first row and didn't complain. Any of my semantic web technologies because what I was wondering is some real world examples of things working. The important thing though, is that. If you look at for example of, you know this phenomenal success on Google. Let's say much of itself is coming from machine learning. Is excellence, and there is an article by coolers all of the unreasonable effectiveness of big data or something like that. The whole mindset is giving you all the data and I will let you watch this and then I will know everything there is to know. That's why I disagree with that. And then there needs to be a combination of that kind of partner which is valued by moments. It is not. It is quite useful, but is not included with your top down. In the top level, is that human involvement process that I'm talking about so? Maybe one in this case. In this machinery, human involvement in the lie or truth, the prior knowledge we extracted from human activities. He plays very crucial role. Definitely changes and now look at how the search engine is changed. It's changed significantly becausw. Google started, you know, and I will talk about in early 2000s, but we are, you know, kind of outline costs that you have keywords to entities too. Relationships and experiences. I have a saying I used to say in early 2000s relationships at the heart of semantics and symmetrical. And beyond that is experiencing alcohol. OK, so. We recently very Google came up with this woman knowledge base by enhancing Freebase Hoover said. Peace not speaks. Things are entities, so they started to move from keywords you introduce. Speak some things. Then if you start looking at a whole bunch of conversations amid single, the director in this area, extensive talks about relationships. Then when they get Commission central. So when you drink machine gun in black box approach, it is very hard. You could find correlations. Causality is much better today, and it's really hard to. So you have load. You have a load and you can find it exactly when there is a relationship that whenever I say auto mobile car or something else with the same or something or whenever I say car and insurance comes in the car has insurance but it is extremely hard to make definitions. Remember that relationship. Much of the power switch on the semantics comes from neighborhood definitions. That is rare. In yesterday I talked about, you know, and the symptoms and disease. Right or drug pics of particular disease or symptom? These are Latin lation ships. Is are not simple is a relationship. These are not same as. It's very important, and much of that is very hard to perform with Black Ops operation. Right, that most ethical techniques are most learning takes up. You're training then, but then you know that pain is not involved. Relationship is classified. Right, although there is work on some relation extraction also like a game name relationship. Exception is an order matter. This is where.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
But thanks for language change. So we use a bunch of semantic weather technologies I Co chaired and was partly responsible for initiating 1/4 constructions, symmetric sensor networking, edgy and that develop similar sensor network ontology. So this is about sensors and then you know lot of people including us have a lot of domain ontologies and you can expect knowledge from Wikipedia.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
And all this. This way you get all the prior knowledge. So here for example you have element professor and this is extremely representation of these kind of. Perhaps Unison flosi and who's the request of background knowledge property? Something that property of feature, right? So, arbitration, hypertension? How do you need that? This is unfair ground knowledge that you.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
And here's another one for you know weather.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
So with that access you have ability to explain. So you transfer and it is key to transfer low level information. The data signals or data into higher knowledge is a fundamental things act of choosing the object or event that best accounts for a set of observations.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
And then just this isn't assign more like that. One of the students worked on possibly assuming assuming this coding yearly and the whole idea was that under so-called single feature resumption, the addictive process, which is computationally very hard, was mapped into a combination of a directive in the Community computations implementing out and was done as far more efficiently. However, a single property feature, as initially does not work all the time. Many cases there are multiple explanations for a simple observation, and we're working on addressing that issue also now.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
Epsom solutions so if you have things like exploratory features, you can see that this is an expected feature of those things.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
I have something so this discrimination. You have a negative idea what something is based on some observation and the idea is that you want to find the next proposition. Interesting here is and the reason how these things scales is that you're going to ask all jobs around here. That would be foolish. You're going to ask one the type of observation. Spatio temporal phenomenologically. Distinguish observation that can best help you. A sort of validity hypothesis explanation. Right, so that is fundamental to the scalability aspects of this.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
But you have expected property modeling.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
Have non applicable property or.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
You have Mr. Rating company wanted to lookout for. Plan is clean and in that case you would have between those two you could become sure that indeed is hypothyroidism and not the right. So this self.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
These operators are. Involved in this machine you have semantic perception. Now, if you think about the issue of hypertension, what you think about the idea of? In this particular case, we are working with. Very important problem called hospitale. Newest version of Recalculations. And missions people so called India Channel. 24.8% of all patients get living in 30 days. Each patient takes about 30 or $10,000 a day in hospital and is typically a specified to six days. Each module swelling caused you $60,000 Medicare at USC. The new health care law says that we will stop paying for a reduced payment model. This realisation you need to treat patients better so they don't have to come back and you need to give them better guidance on. How they can manage their stem cells after years after you know after discharge from the hospital? And so this is very important in now all the health care companies were just getting paid for doing the services. Now you're not going to be paid, so we hope we use it right. And Even so, this is a great I think problem that able to solve that. We want to help them solve. So we have. We have created this cable system and there's a kick of. Sensors Optic wanted to pressure being scaled, all talking with Bluetooth ear with a mobile device. We can also have longer by device and something else, and you know other options are there. And the interesting thing is then that all this data available, this is not data who is trying to see all the data. So you need to convert that into something that is meaningful. What is meaningful? Please continue doing what you're doing. You're doing fine. Off contact you are at least Level 3 on technique. You are at this level file. Alright, well I'm going to go to the hospital now. It is the actually working that you want to come on. This is, you know what the data, who cares about all the initial reading. Every time that you know sensor generates. Except. Action. Select and so there is a comprehensive. Mekanism that has the full bunch of steps here. That is what promote is working on and it's really really deal because of the time I will not go into detail.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
Um? The mechanism that developed initially had rather Pacific complexity. Using an Organism.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
For Android. And another thing is that we don't want to take all the data that is limited patience, home or payment. Patients walking around and send it to some cloud is a privacy issue. There are many other challenges, security of the data itself and when with issues insert. Instead, we want to have intelligence at age. That means I want this guy to be able to do the computations. And convert the data into abstractions. I want this type implements semantical section. So I don't have that example. Estimated on marriage to my device. Anne.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
For that we were able to develop in which vector encoding an implementation of the operators. We have different as literacy conferences that discuss in detail.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
That resulted in significantly better results. It took the problem. So much more complex, much high capacity to linear. We were able to scale up from 10s of nodes in thousands of nodes from many, many seconds. Minutes and hours are there in 2 sub sectors on the right hand side.

[2523.0s - 2552.0s]
So today here it what you see here is fasted, no lemonade. I high level knowledge. Prior knowledge is key to this perception issues represented and that impresses age gives you a limit to scale. Now I'm not you know, everybody has. Meanwhile devices. Everybody can buy an under $100 device to do all the computations necessary with sufficient similar perception between here and there.

[2552.0s - 2581.0s]
So let us look at some applications of semantical set.

[2581.0s - 2610.0s]
To help get.

[2610.0s - 2639.0s]
This system is called catering.

[2639.0s - 2668.0s]
And the idea is this.

[2668.0s - 2697.0s]
So that this thing is energy in the coal mine. So I only kind of explained box of these this generation of.

[2697.0s - 2726.0s]
Cardiology background knowledge. Initially I discussed some aspects of building the knowledge base, but through EMR, so let you know I won't repeat that part today, but you have systems like these with the sensor.

[2726.0s - 2755.0s]
And that the idea here is that you may observe without your properties and what you're into.

[2755.0s - 2784.0s]
Situation feature. So the idea is that video observe this property. So when you when you when you say that there are potential properties and you need to get with expression is what human is interested or initial is interesting. Then the idea is what are the? What is just the right set of questions to ask. There are some mobile phones that you can buy today and applications you know that would ask you all kinds of situations and take you to an answer. Or exorcism kind of mindset in such a mini most of the time will be lost in the same position that will appear in logs. User question you wouldn't get even die right there. So the idea here is to ask a little question that focus on cancer comes into the picture and it makes this possible.

[2784.0s - 2813.0s]
So in system here you know this just being this demo, that formal racking release interest in all these particular thing. And so we can ask questions if it all this stuff and they completely screwed. And then you can be working. In fact pretty pictures.

[2813.0s - 2842.0s]
When people are real people here, this person is the director of Cardiovascular Medicine at Ohio's Maximum Medical.

[2842.0s - 2871.0s]
The other very complex problem is. A little commentary and you know. You know, ask my mother.

[2871.0s - 2900.0s]
Comments, so there are couple of videos we can look at the end if you have time. That explains the real time feature, so this is your only applies to health care in the office environment we had access to 20,000 sensor data using web services and we say to you is interested in icy Rd condition or heavy rain or. Something like this is the abstractions. So you can say what you're interested in. It will show you on the map what is happening right now, so this is real time processing of the data. I love section, behavior section. He help again this thing again.

[2900.0s - 2929.0s]
They made.

[2929.0s - 2958.0s]
So Oshtemo is in a fixed 300 million.

[2958.0s - 2987.0s]
All over the world. It's a very complex problem. You don't. Complex anyway, then heart disease is so heavily. You know there are many questions that people want to ask, can we detect the minor MSU early can be characterized progression and does early detection of oshtemo and subsequent interventions lead to improved outcome?

[2987.0s - 3016.0s]
This is big data problem. In fact, you have a lot of real time recipes from possible levels. Visual meter networks like it's outside in your breath excelerator microphone public. That's like Center for Disease Control Hospital EMR systems. An official population level. Bipolar driver parament trackside, either air is in house which may be a personal level and outside an smog in the population level. So cycle therapy via slee. Engage so very clearly. See now physical cyber social thing is very large scale. The number of. It also includes the missing information lot of time sensors don't work.

[3016.0s - 3045.0s]
The observations and the idea is from all this kind of stuff that you can do measure all the sensory thing you can do. You are interested in. Some actually becomes like. Close the windows at home billing date overseer to include. Provide customatix at night. That is, what is the equal competing for your experience?

[3045.0s - 3074.0s]
So you have this critical issues of volume, variety, velocity and velocity, and the value is values. How can I use my estimates at night? Right and then?

[3074.0s - 3103.0s]
So the question of how can I reduce systematic at night?

[3103.0s - 3132.0s]
These are the translating questions, many #3 submissions. What are the triggers water? What is the air quality? What is the propensity towards some of that person? And so on and so forth.

[3132.0s - 3161.0s]
All these or then there are measurements.

[3161.0s - 3190.0s]
Then I don't really have sex.

[3190.0s - 3219.0s]
That can get done. So basically shows you the complexity problem. All kinds of sensors. Of personal, public and population level, and here is an important thing about control. So as, control and the severity of customer intermediate. SMR mild, mild, persistent and severe, persistent asthma and it is managed by the medications to be fully control. So you have this metric. So this is the way decision-making in the case of asthma. And we could. You know this is all through the collaboration with doctors.

[3219.0s - 3248.0s]
And published it user and it is a system where we have scale system. In this case we are partnering with relation is UCI is eventual. I've also have system quite quickly so that social media and this whole systems come together and we had it now.

[3248.0s - 3277.0s]
Looking at the future time management and not going to all the details, but this is an important side so you have all kinds of signals here. And you have you need to push something that is happening and you have a benefit of background knowledge, expert knowledge, ontologies, structured information section data. And you know this concept and what happens is that even when the data is in different modalities. It is automatically being back semantically related with the concepts, so the horizontal operation is happening here. Like and then the vertical operation is happening in the reasoning. The semantic perception illusion. Bad to ask this question. Alright, so I can ask you or very complicated problem how the whole integration framework so many applications will not and then how. Reasoning for it happened to greatness in this situation. And then because some simple things, they have a lower rate. A system of green, yellow and red Bell pepper continuing not well controlled contact nerves, poor control contact number. That is extreme. And that is what this you would experience is about.

[3277.0s - 3306.0s]
Very good picture.

[3306.0s - 3335.0s]
Do you want parking services that promote this hotel? And his colleagues, and.

[3335.0s - 3364.0s]
Yeah, I would just speak to it, but we had data eight weeks of data from 5 sensors on a smartphone collected or for some patients resulting well with a bite with lot of missing missing data. An interesting thing.

[3364.0s - 3393.0s]
Prosek you know these were the things that you wanted to find.

[3393.0s - 3422.0s]
What was ultimately achievable? He's in network and how that is typically addresses problem would mean that people would use machine learning, SVM or something or something like that. Don't know, obviously that had to find out when the person has, you know, is going slowly or knowing intermittently, but it is very hard to get that and there's not much rule Roman making.

[3422.0s - 3451.0s]
I understand that. What is did you know we did it work remotely was to infuse this with bright light. Who changed? Population of the Prophet. So.

[3451.0s - 3480.0s]
You know these are saying no details here because of the timeline.

[3480.0s - 3509.0s]
You know, rushing through them?

[3509.0s - 3538.0s]
And they were fairly good result.

[3538.0s - 3567.0s]
Yeah. But the important thing was that you can see that. That the simple knowledge that. Was applied to make you understand that. What was the girls mean? That the signature. Probably those parameters. Where in more easily manage to things that help you understand we should wait would be packing services. Right, so the Pakistan this is is my with a tremor in person and poor balance and these kind of things are something that can be specified as a knowledge. Now this won't load right, right, so this is specified. This is used to improve your understanding. If you did not have that. You would have is optimal outcome of output of your machine learning algorithms and you like to somehow map. What do you do, what magic do for that?

[3567.0s - 3596.0s]
Bob is extensive work.

[3596.0s - 3625.0s]
On traffic.

[3625.0s - 3654.0s]
Yeah, then again, he's also working on and here the scale data is far bigger. And there were some important questions and we detect the answer of traffic congestion and so.

[3654.0s - 3683.0s]
Support.

[3683.0s - 3712.0s]
Let me motivate irons. Other thing shows you with this attack.

[3712.0s - 3741.0s]
Sorta, but Interestingly, here now there's social data. This motion sensor data as especially bad somebody here from looking at this I cannot tell you why this company soda. And then you cannot decide whether you know depending on what went back to your research is focused around your decide to continue going that way, or being the route. As an example, yeah, that week you had with the location here. Anything that isn't off that's well and I can learn from it. So this is. You know, living in social thinking?

[3741.0s - 3770.0s]
The picture and here then we get a city issue. There's a news article that is becoming as informally on there.

[3770.0s - 3799.0s]
I know that you think it is.

[3799.0s - 3828.0s]
So you know.

[3828.0s - 3857.0s]
Oh

[3857.0s - 3886.0s]
I think they are. This is a test.

[3886.0s - 3915.0s]
So that you can see them but they disappear, is that also? Use of radar knowledge helps you identify variety of causes, scheduled events, activities, hours and so forth, and you won't be able to learn. You know two years of data, which is why in particular slowdown which type of.

[3915.0s - 3944.0s]
Around this is.

[3944.0s - 3973.0s]
This sort of modeling of traffic you know some of these are coming from outside to external events, and others are internal observations within once on the road observations.

[3973.0s - 4002.0s]
Most important thing is.

[4002.0s - 4031.0s]
Then what from Oded was too. Big existing knowledge in this case input set file app. That is part of the link open data. Who improve the understanding of what can be obtained from this one or paralysis?

[4031.0s - 4060.0s]
Then undoubtedly it leaks down too.

[4060.0s - 4089.0s]
Define.

[4089.0s - 4118.0s]
That

[4118.0s - 4147.0s]
Going through all these.

[4147.0s - 4176.0s]
Yes, let me just.

[4176.0s - 4205.0s]
Maybe?

[4205.0s - 4234.0s]
I was like.

[4234.0s - 4263.0s]
Back the top picture is what you can see. What you see is what you can get. True statistical analysis. Then structure expected. From traffic observations, but what you want is the bottom picture. So this structure was enriched. Uh, you know, it's because it has links link there. Actually, Michael Dickson you notes such as bad driver. That came from the big operation. And that is probably useful that touch you mistake and explain and makes that data out of.

[4263.0s - 4292.0s]
I'm experience.

[4292.0s - 4321.0s]
So I will.

[4321.0s - 4350.0s]
Now there's.

[4350.0s - 4379.0s]
For example.

[4379.0s - 4408.0s]
Listen, uh.

[4408.0s - 4437.0s]
Images.

[4437.0s - 4466.0s]
Military situation.

[4466.0s - 4495.0s]
Hello.

[4495.0s - 4524.0s]
Fucking money but.

[4524.0s - 4553.0s]
The emergency formation.

[4553.0s - 4582.0s]
So it doesn't happen immediately. Hi. So let us have fake news. It's not right to including again. First, a lot of additions is that systems are still pipes with narrow set of observations of the real world. That no knowledge support is, you know, is used for informed decision making, such as in the example of Mark's case. Social aspects is very crucial, but is often ignored. That vision of physical, physical cycle social computing and provide so.

[4582.0s - 4611.0s]
Patience please. Problems. It involves transitioning from search to solution to PCs computing. And you know, quite actionable information. Important in a very high people who like actionable information, not data and not information. What can I do? What should I do? How does it affect me? Seamless integration technology involving selected during world and human involvement. Also not to translate human not requiring multiple. Delete the piece of the data level or entered into an entry is high level positions, possibly in the natural surroundings possible. I don't want to listen to the area of natural interface and so forth is not primary minor features. That's important part of the whole equation, and that complements or accuracy transition from reactive system where humans humans will come from the computer. I want this thing and get transferred. Transition that to appropriate system where machines initiate information mean. That's kind of important for lung disease, sharing of knowledge, experience and observations across PC's worlds within to inform Mr making and physical psychosocial. So this is a vision then. And semantic computing greatly supports us to realize this vision.

[4611.0s - 4640.0s]
With that, let me so just think about it. We will do, you know his red. I would create something or compete for human experience and that's the goal that for me. Mark said and.

[4640.0s - 4669.0s]
The whole bunch of.

[4669.0s - 4698.0s]
In the papers there are lot of. Things that you can go and play with this little link on ECS computing also and stuff and.

[4698.0s - 4727.0s]
There. Acknowledgement is not because you walked in expressing the doctors and others and funding from.

[4727.0s - 4756.0s]
Agencies. And. Background.

[4756.0s - 4785.0s]
Understand that these are so many people who are supported and help. Fantastic job with me on this one.

[4785.0s - 4814.0s]
So I'm there. This is amazing. Cyclone. So usually. We like Shirley. Talk about things. In highlight, in particular the bottling context. So off the PCs. For me the most bottom of two top bottom top order these PCs. The reason is that really social, and by that that includes you believe. Israel angle and the most significant of all that. Measurement of physical world. Is not so clear. On the other hand, is hard to really come up with everything because your existence also in the physical world. So you could also put if you make that is. But generally the idea was we still have some application framework in the mind and I was finally happy saying that much of the understanding physical world world today is too low level data. That device isn't there. A lot of background knowledge in the computational environment in Cyber World helps you improve the processing and also the detail and improve the environment of humans and social activities on the top. And that is really why I. That is why I choose this particular. That's a good question I did I didn't think about that question. I know I'm sure some people might help with everything. For example, cyber physical is well known and then they put cyber fast. I don't know why, but that is how it has come. Yes. But the word social you are not mentioning interaction between people. Maybe when action recommended who? Yeah, what action would be? Contact you can share with this person because this person has the same disease. All. You will make a call to your Gran father because he's depressed today. Yeah. I'm trying to give it again. Additions do a given persons continue or contact within it. But you are not. Whatever issues you are not putting people communicating together. Of. Wedding happy that trust this question. And out. What you suggested is actually a part of the deal is just that I did not have time today to talk about it. In fact, let me give you. Because of that, I hear this simple quick face you have today and this is the most I think in my most comprehensive system that I know in social media analysis. Let me see if I can get. So let me see, this will show up. And this system does. Special temporal thematic people. Content network sentiment, emotion, subjectivity or intention. Analysis of social media content and the latest use case. Off the tree trees. Is in use of how people are offering, how, how we donate help. Who is offering help and how to correlate activity in between emergency responders. And people who are willing to make helping people who need help it very in the images situation in real time situation. So for example we got a request from FEMA saying we have reports of natural gas line base fires. What do you find this weekend? We told them with the last week says that the last known fire occurred at 10:20 PM. In this night an. How high it the last 2 million tweets in the past two days and you really created a very comprehensive. Environment for people who you know explicitly say this is relevant with these this thing you should know. So let me see if there is a. In the near term, context, for example, will find one that fits are there for each of these different topics. You know one interior shelter power and it actually would connect with the different roles and all that. So indeed there is very much a part of learning and not improving in the kind of hearing, but even in the real time context. Real time coordination of people to people and group and such, and consulting Wikipedia. Yesterday I tried to show in detail loser to automatically extracts a domain model. Only continuous basis. If you want to end the carpets that interesting person, so these are indeed very important and certainly. Sometimes they come in. This is not what you have asked me to life question up there and that's very important. Thank you. Thank you.
