We choose the best split among the subsample features, optimizing overall possible split locations in that sub sampled features. And basically OK. Yep, so some advantages of random forests. They're very easy to train and very fast train and can be trained in parallel an there's kind of no over fitting really. Yeah, so this is basically a stochastic process over binary hierarchical axis aligned partitions. The generative process for a modern process. And then, once we've chosen a dimension, will choose a location uniformly from the interval. So this defines a cut of our space, and we basically recurse on both sides. Is random then this restriction of T to this smaller rectangle is going to be random as well. The restriction to that rectangle is exactly the monitoring process that I've just described. Modern processes apply over decision trees conditioned on X, where X is our input vectors where basically the range of the monitoring process is given by basically the range of the data. Because of this self consistency property, this is equivalent. And let's say that the data point D is around here. A few key differences between modern forests, an existing online random for. New splits can be introduced anywhere in the tree. Always so here's a few datasets with varying dimensionality, number of classes, training data set and and tested. A batch of datasets, right? Here is basically the test accuracy of the different methods. And on the X axis of this left plot, we're basically seeing an increasing fraction of our training data. It's very close to offline methods and significantly outperforms the online methods and is much faster than all the other methods. What would like to look into is basically what happens if we have high dimensional data with lots of irrelevant, irrelevant features. Is to use use what I call random forest, which is a very large, very popular class of supervised learning methods, which I guess hasn't been mentioned yet. I think most people do, but I will go through over the next few slides, but basically they produce state of the art results for lots of real prediction tasks, and they're also very robust, and they're very parallelizable and computationally efficient, which is why people use it so much.