So that's why I will show you some application to anomaly detection and the second purpose of this talk is to show you how statistical learning theory can be applied to mutilate AVT in part, in particular for deriving bones on the estimation of what is called the asymptotic dependence structure. This limits here and which is actually an equivalent definition of the SDF. And if you want to use standard concentration inequality, it will it ways problem. If we apply simply standard VIS inequality, we obtain bone like this, which can even goes to Infinity so that we have to take into account that we have to use the fact we have to use the good news where to use the fact that came over in terms a as RBC measure which goes to 0. Which is actually the probability to be in the union of your VC classes. Here is simply a classical visitor, but with K instead of N and we also have the bias term here, which is the price to pay to do no assumption Anet measure how far are we in the tail, and this bias team is simply. Becausw yes we need each XG to be between zero and T. 'cause then you have bonded VC class and you are able to bound the probability to be in the union of this VC class. So an idea for applications to anomaly detection will be too. And as a conclusion, learning theory can be adapted to meteoritics and value theory too. And this works, paves the way to the use of material ticks in value theory in machine learning. So the general context of mutual activity is that you have a random vector X with margins, EG following continuous CDF FG and. So by extreme I mean far from zero with respect to any norm of RG. So now with this assume soon what you have is general model for extreme meaning that we can able to characterize the priority for V to be in A and this is almost knew of a an. Worse, completely, the joint distribution of extreme. So the fact that Phi Mu words to join this joint distribution of extremes can be illustrated by by this figure here. In Dimension 2, you only have two sub phase, but in greater dimension, dimension D in dimension D you have two at the party minus one faces under some plates which correspond to any groups of coordinates an in this case for only charge, the two subphase of the simplex, meaning that V1 and V2 cannot be lost together in this case is called aseptic independence an this for more can actually be used in anomaly detection because if you have a set of normal data. So now the problem is if you want to estimate fi or mu, it is very hard to attach the quality of this estimate in dimension greater than two existing existing work actually also only for dimension 2, so that the IG is to consider the restriction of mu too convenient VC class, which is the class of complementary effect on yours. So yesterday this table to deepen instruction is actually an analytic tool in the sense that if you know L, then you know mu and you know the structure of extremes and the trick is that it allows us to works on rectangles instead on any measurable set. In particular, if you take 2 where events with small probability P1P2, and if you assume if you assume that you know P1 and P2 or if you have estimated using for instance univariate DVT, and suppose that you that you want to investigate the joint probability P12 and actually it can be approximated by L estate F evaluated.