Maybe for the beginning of for beginning I will talk about alcohol addiction treatment, but I think I can say that in all our hospital programs we treat people with all kinds of addiction and even with some other disorders like pathological gambling or eating disorders sometimes like as comorbidity. This method of treatment of alcohol addiction currently used in Slovenia can be seen really as a result of rich experience and great efforts by numbers by number of experts throughout most than 50 years in Slovenia. The method is based on the concept of addiction as a disease. Formerly, alcohol addiction was discussed in terms of disease concept. And the truth, in fact, is quite opposite. And that's the starting point of motivational approaches. Motivation for changes is really something that can be influenced and depends mostly on the patient therapist relationship. It's also to be aware of readiness to change, because we should know that. Then we if we have chance to get some kind of real motivational approach. Speaking of quantum contemporary treatment, we always try to find for each individual, suitable combination of pharmacological, psychological and social interventions which are needed in different phases of addiction treatment. Because we know that population of patients is heterogeneous, they are a different age. Gender in different phases of addiction, different levels with different medical and psychiatric or ability with a different support from others, differently motivated. That's a psychological behavioral, theoretically grounded method of influencing patients to change their way of thinking, emotions, behavior to be more constructive in different modalities. Psychoeducation is when patient learn about their own disease. They try to find themselves in the theory of addiction by different. Different tools, lectures, discussions, movies, exams. Not in every approach psychoeducation is needed, but we do this social therapy where the focus is in social relations therapies in the frame of therapeutical community, occupational therapy, all kinds of can, crabs, gardening and other therapies like art therapy, music therapy, all kinds of sports, relaxation techniques, dancing, singing, performing. Support effect is an effective way of learning social skills, enables insight, gives insight to patients functioning, confirm a new identity that is not stigmatized, strengthens hopes and self respect. But we must. Including patients relatives is also very important because addiction means also problems on a relationship level, not only emotional problems but also dis adoptation to addiction represents a problem problem. Family members usually change their position from one who's helping to one who needs help. Studies research shows that programs without clearly defined structure are less effective because structure enables the patient to better manage anxiety, compulsive behavior, and existential emptiness, but never just structure, always with empathy. External control mechanisms provide the patients with best opportunity to learn new ways of thinking and living. About duration, evidence supports three month rehab models and that's pretty close in Slovenia and that is approximately the right time for the brain to be reset and get rid of direct influence of drugs, but longer period of time is needed to establish automization of knew different more self protecting and healthy ways of patients behavior two to five years. It's correct time. Also studies have shown that the area of prefrontal cortex which is in charge of prudent thinking is inhibited by stress. It's even more inhibited in the brains of addicts. They have power to influence on our mind and change our moods. They make better sleep, relaxation, optimism, make big problems, smaller, good mood, even euphoria. Similar, but nonetheless every institution for addiction treatment has its own philosophy, its own procedures within each treat. Each program can be some different methods and techniques. It's important that all members of the therapeutic team have a uniform and clearly recognizable approach and attitude in the recovery program. Goals are physical recovery or treatment of somatic complications to help patients recognizing accepting disease of addiction and, of course learning what kind of behavior will successfully meet their basic psychological needs without manipulating others, preventing relapse or preventing switching addiction. That means teamwork, active cooperation with patients, therapeutic agreement, structured program responsibilities, House order rules, decisions are made together, group therapy, small big groups, at least one meeting a day, usually two working with relatives every Monday, occupational therapy, everyday organized physical activities twice a day. The patient does not leave the hospital. After that they go on as we called therapeutic exits preparation group where patients and family members are separated and intensive group where they sit together. Care, including relapse treatment and very important point encourage ING and helping patients to start attending meetings in different therapeutic or self help groups in order to better maintaining abstinence clubs. Drinking less drunk intoxication is longer periods of sobriety, but of course, this highest goal is satisfied, sober life. Sometimes we can see in practice they are craving failure to control the quantity of alcohol consumption, symptoms of accidents, withdrawal changes, intolerance. Drinking, regardless of the awareness that it's damaging, and of course a person will experience our designs again when drinking again. Defense mechanisms are one of the important elements to which attention must be paid while treating addiction. These are specific psychological defense mechanisms, something specific and different from other diseases. We can say or I say always, that the brain is inventing stories, not to loot, not to lose its beloved drug, and to hide the reality from the user. Times and we know what the consequences are. We know we know also the three groups of factors are important as reasons for developing addiction. It starts with question how to help someone to get decision for treatment. That's a very important question. Core beliefs is the same on the first stage. People don't think they have a problem at all. On the third stage, they decide to change that to change, they plan to choose some new behavior. When we talk about motivational interviewing, the first stage is a stage of status quo. About something about unmotivated patients were unmotivated, I think still too often used even by professionals, because when the patient seems to be unmotivated to make changes or to follow our advice, it's often quickly presumed that there's something wrong with the patient and that there's nothing we can do. But these presumptions are usually wrong.