[0.0s - 29.0s]
Center I would like to to be short here because many of the aspects were already mentioned.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
In different presentations, but I want to emphasize as the need for technical developments and also that we summarize the the technical state of the art and therefore one central point of our findings and quarrels is of course that creating meta data is content enrichment. Part is still very important and that there is a.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Low effort to carry out an audio here in the European project in the landscape of these projects, maybe I hope that I that we have all partners here map to the right areas. But you see already, there's a lot of effort in these different projects and you see also that the distribution of partners in different types of media processing areas is almost complete and specially that. Huge IP project file hosting Vitalus covers a lot of media indexing technologies and you see here in the next talk from Oliver Shreya from Hi here. They are working on.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
3D technology here. We have an overview about many national projects we heard today about quiero about today's oil. And here in this session we heard we hear about the two more national projects working more on. Text based search, semantic search and there are many different projects around in this area, so this is a lot of effort. Lot of partners and. Now it's important to know where we are. Yeah into what to do next in these.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Technical developments. I would like to continue here with a functional description of the multimedia search engine you saw this slide before by my colleague, and it's important that indexing component of the search engine, but also the very preparations of presentation of the results and the matching process requires. This is intelligent technology and especially in this meta data creation this index enrichment and rich context part.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
There's already a lot of effort done in the project, yet the summary, so I want to really to be short and you can read all the information, of course, and the deliverables of chorus here. You see the approaches for the speech analysis area, so the speech expert in the room hopefully agree with all these technology which is used, which is mainly. Hmm, based large vocabulary speech recognition systems which are applied in several of the projects and there are already some systems available from different vendors from research vendors and from companies like Voxel Eat or like Say Labs and other groups. And here you see a list of applications. So from podcast videocast search or search and audio archives.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
One example for this so kind of best practice example. Here you can search for political name for Obama. Then you get here the results in a new show from this 20 minute news shows which is segmented you automatically. Then you get the idea of the speaker. So here you have speaker recognition in. Integrated and then you get the transcripts so you can search in this audio. In this video using speech recognition quite well already. So it's kind of state of the art, but it works very well.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Four for broadcast news for broadcast data. But if you go to more advanced domains, then more robust technologies are required and here we identified and called trends and challenges and promising direction for the different media types. So in speech technology, so hybrid speech retrieval systems, more and more coming. So that word based retrieval system are combined with sub word retrieval system. Using of lettuce information to improve the recall during search and also to improve the robustness against in the speech area, especially the multilingual multilinguality, so that the system does not only work for French or only for German, so there are many languages. Although English is the dominant language in the web, but I think it's also necessary for that it works in other languages and. What is also challenge here is that in the speech domains that we have very often very complex audio's signals which are. Composition of different sounds and then the good results of a speech indexing system can become worse and hear more robust.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Arrows are required in the area of music analysis. We have already also nice system, nice technology around the development of impact. 7 provided very good methods to for music indexing and there also technology technology for music recommendations. Around here Fraunhofer is one is also quite active but also companies involved in this teaser. Project and to any they have also a music recommendation or you come in Cuero and there are applications like indexing of music collections or audio music identification task or recommendation engine which are all.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Already available, he also best practice example. Ian Audio IDs Sonos system from our DMT in Ilmenau so here you can do semantic recommendation of music sound so you always get similar music. And then you can browse in your music collection by recommendation of this technology and this technology is already commercially available, so this is also first.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Success story in this area, but also here there's travel challenges to go to more semantic music retrieval. So what we call also music semantics. You want to have genre classification or you want to have mood detection also or playlist generation. Or music summarization and hear research groups are still busy to find good algorithm and systems which can solve this task. And of course he also machine learning algorithm has to be. Vented and more robust extraction. Message was high level information, so there's a promise.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Direction in this music area so image areas also, but area we heard also ready. So I want to maybe just pick out some interesting. Systems and projects like the system from the Palace of from India. Or and here you have content based image retrieval test.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Also, here is kind of best practice example here from vitalus which you can see also over there. This is the image retrieval content based image retrieval. Here you can query this with a similar image and you get backs relevant images and this is kind of state of the art is available and and if you want to go to for more.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Advanced Image Search which is able to work in a more robust area. So then you have to go for better feature extraction methods. You have to apply also new learning algorithm and also the user navigation, especially by content based image retrieval algorithms and approaches has to be improved. One I think important direction he an image retrieval is really using tech data. We heard this already from Yahoo this afternoon with annotation from Flickr you have now a database is millions of annotated images which you then can use for image retrieval task and this can be really a solution to improve this technology with this user generated annotations.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
To the video part, I will be also very short. My colleague Oliver share from each I will present this more detail also about 3.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Dee Ann.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And so I would like to go to the more multi cross model search. Approaches as we heard this morning. So the idea to go to the more event based and semantic search of multimodal applications. Here an example for solution made for the track fit evaluation. So a meeting search engine engine which is able to search for 50 different concepts. And here's one concept meeting and you see the results are all already quite good for this. Of the system, the system is by taking by more or less randomly by. Here's a University of Marburg. There are also other groups working on this and providing good systems, but you see already this can provide good results, but the effort to create Chatter system is very very.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Hi and this also the challenges and limitation of multi and cross modal multimedia search engines that you have to provide a lot of annotated data. You have to define the keyword vocabulary in advance and so in this example, for example, you need 1000 training example to train these. Concept video, concept classification and you have to process a lot of low level representations and there really is a need to have better boots tracking mechanism and also to reduce context as domain space by additional contact information. So but again I think this is also agreed or kind of. I would say result of our discussions and the talks. Today that this that the multimodal and cross modal approach is very promising and overcomes the limitations that you have all types of media independent from each other and kind of several surges and.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Again. So the conclusions are of our findings and quarrels. We think that we have to work over the Community has to work again. Very much on robot multimedia indexing techniques. So especially to get more object based annotations. Automatic annotation to enable all also object based search so that we really go what we heard this morning from Professor Jane. More event and contact based search. I think recommendation is very important. Also real time recommendation and so that we are also able to exploit user annotation which are hopefully which are mainly weakly labeled and which are of different quality and the scalability issues to process a huge amount of data which will come and which will be increase over the next years. Is a challenge for the algorithm, but also for the network infrastructure, so that are the main findings.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
I want to thank you thank all participants of chorus and please go to the deliverable if you want to read teachers or if I was too fast. Thank you very much. So any comments, any question, any remarks? Hopefully I didn't forget any important message. I thought it was 10 minutes.
