So it's a really complex context and so a lot of people from all over the world started working there. It was also the starting point for me to create a group called social spaces. And it was also the starting point for a training program that I created for helping me or training design and artistic researchers in participating together with different actors like public actors, private actors, different end users, as so that was that. Unfold created this 3D printer that prints keramic San. You have the explanation earlier on this they share a lot and sharing is crucial to to get this this generativity going on. Define this sharing generativity is also made possible by via modularity and this was very clear in Thomas Project Model modularity of material. Generativity is also made possible by allowing deviant users of your project, and I think this is the most scary part for a lot of us here is that you allow people just to take your project and really. Do we know? So to approach participation, your approach can really vary in the degree of how hybrids you approach the material. Confrontation very curated with expert critique maybe. It is true I am because I don't want to tell the beautiful story of participation is, well, the thing. It's also a bit of open structure, but then a collaborative tool in fact and it is used by companies who ask money for it, for example, and so for me it was an open source and a public project. Like yeah, these projects are not and never ends. But however at. Still, I think that this risk is inherent to every design and artistic process and is really, really productive for projects, and because it can can enrich your project with with diverse inputs that you could not have thought about yourself. You maybe foster continuity, critiques, alterations and so on. And if you want to know more about the traders training program about this participation in public space. Good, so the book project describes the uncertainty that designers and artists are confronted with when they engage in participatory projects. It is a fact that we are not fault in our educational systems in art education, design, education to participate and that was also the motivation here. And yeah, the degree of participatory quality of a project depends a bit on the type of participation you you aim for and the type of participants you engage. While I think David knows very well who who's who, his collaborators will be. Also, participation can take place in different phases of a process and your process will be quite the longer, so you start now and you will end up in September all day long and short. Now the inputs of both makers and participants in these phases at can change the project in ways that you couldn't predict in any way, and that is in every project. But in any case even it is a bit risky and your project might stick turns you you do not want to. It benefits the interesting qualities of a design process an. I did so much more but I only talk about 6 case studies in the book. How risky are the interactions that the participants engaged in and how did this risk benefits the art and design process? I think 2 principles are core, hybridity and generativity and these are two principles that always seem to work together in participatory projects. Risk to use their materials as a more or less hybrids zone, and what do? Betty Ann and also what I saw is that interesting participatory projects risk to use the material as a more or less generative tool, and this relates, I think, very much due to what Thomas was talking about.