[0.0s - 29.0s]
Beneath bending goods welcome.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
It is an honor for me and I'm extremely happy to welcome you to. Barcelona is my beloved city is where I have been living all my life. And I find so many virtues on it that I really like sharing them with you, so I'm very, very proud that Barcelona was selected as a city for each guy, and that you finally could come in.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Is it us? Barcelona is probably a good place to be, and that's for many reasons. One is that for 11 years it has been selected the top European metropoles in quality of life, which is not an easy record to him to get is the six most touristic city in the world. The fifth most preferred European city for business. And it's not only about enjoying life. Barcelona has managed to get a blending of serious work. An Azure deviva and this kind of enjoying life equilibrium that is so difficult to find in many places of the world. At the same time of being a good touristic venue, it is the value of a large number of innovative centers, universities, companies, many young entrepreneurs that are building small companies and it has become a pull of attraction for many researchers. So now instead of being a city and in general country exporting brains somehow we're starting to import brains to build the fabric of research and development.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Of course I did a minor a very tiny thing of the whole effort. Here you have the large team. In fact you have not everybody in the team is in this picture, but most of them are an people ever just mentioned. It accrued for this outstanding work on the on the web. Pablo Noriega for the outstanding work on raising his color's sponsorship in these difficult times. Marco controlling volunteers rich color for the exhibits. Use of these articles for the press relations pyramids again for the colocated events might for the relationship with the University of Barcelona. You have just been there, probably worships in tutorials and Rick platter for the overall design of the conference. Para Garcia has kept an eye on on all the finances of the things, so we managed to break even the conference. So thanks to all of them for the heavy. Work they have done in the last two years.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
As I said before, about Pablo Noriega, he raised a tremendous amount of interest in many companies and you will see that not in the sponsorship. That is very, very important. But also in the exhibits area where you will find the number of companies publishers in academics that will be showing there later.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Results. One of the themes of this conference was from the very beginning for the last team to make it gravitate, they would say around architecture. You have just been some of you at the University, Barcelona, which is a nice example of Neo Gothic from the 19th century. So the University old University that was 500 years old was burned at the beginning of the 19th century and it was rebuilt as a nice Gothic Palace for the academics. You're now in one of the jewels of their nouveau in Catalonia, and probably in the world. These concert Hall is outstanding. The sense of light that comes from the ceiling and the shapes that go around are totally magic, so I hope you will enjoy this evening here with the music and later the drinks. On the on the banquet you will enjoy. An example of the 20th century eclectic, I would say architecture where you will see different styles mixed together in. I would say in a small town so you I recommend that you go there early so you can have a stroll around the street and see many examples of these pennies architecture from different parts of the country and finally the Civ where the main conference will start tomorrow morning is an example of modern architecture. Very beautiful building next to this scene. So I think you will also enjoy that with these we have a glimpse of the architecture of Barcelona. There are many more things to see and if you have time, I really recommend you that you visit.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Some of them. For the entertainment we we thought that it would be interesting to base it on the creativity of AI researchers, and for that we asked Lucas Stills and Oscar Villa Raja to produce a new opera that you will listen to and less than an hour. And for the banquet you will listen to Martin Werner and his trio. Margin venture is A is a very is an outstanding jazz trio that will complain you well, you have dinner.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
There are many free things that we wanted to give to the attorneys. And here you have a few of them tutorials where free for the first time, and probably that's something that may be kept for future additions of the conference banquet is included. We wanted the conference to be inclusive so that everybody would attend the social events student reception special for students raffle at the end of the conference to give back to the community part of the materials that we are using in the recording. An in the in the management of the conference. La La Musica coming here cost you money, so you are being fear free becausw your attendees of each case. So this is part of the registration fee that you paid. Being able to enjoy these Palace the industry day that will witness a number of interesting applications for industry in a farewell party that will say goodbye to Barcelona and hello to Beijing in 2013.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Just to finish mention that tomorrow there will be an official welcome by Professor and real Masculine. Some of them will know him because he's an expert, are well known expert on microeconomics. His book of Microeconomics is well cited, specially with people working on game theory and related areas. He became the Minister of Economy and knowledge of few months back and he is very, very happy to welcome you tomorrow officially from the Catalan government and that will happen at 8:30. So I would ask you, please try and be there at 8:30 sharp sometimes after the dreams of an opening. This becomes a bit difficult but I I really suggest you to make an effort and be there to listen to him. So I finish here and I again I repeat men being goods. Welcome to Barcelona.
