So the basic for this is very, very simple, so they're interested in what makes another object interesting for an interval. So if it occurs more frequently in a given interval, let's say an hour half a day, six hours, a full day, maybe a week. So the trick is to pick up those terms which are important, and for that you can actually rely on the basics of information retrieval. And the estimate is about three 3.5 billion photos that have been uploaded that we have about 12 million Web users. It's stunning if you have to think about the infrastructure that you need to actually support it. And at peak times, and this is a quote from August 2007, so it's actually already pretty old. OK, but I was going to talk about Bruce looking so I wanted to work on the characterization of the usage behavior of Flickr. Who is looking where from where are they looking at your photos? And these three aspects you actually can capture by looking at the query logs, the Apache query logs of the people that actually access Flickr. I took the access logs of Flickr. You want 1.8 million photos that were uploaded in the first 10 days of the 60 day. The power law where the number of the probability of having a photo having a number of visits. The topmost slice is already responsible for 50% of the total number of views, so 10% of the photos get 50% of diffuse, and that's. We have plotted the number of views per day. So on average, after three hours, 3 hours after being uploaded, a photo has 3.6, three point 6 views. If it's in the in the top most popular slice sort of slice. Is actually based on the total number of views that it will have after 50 days, right? OK, So what can we do with this? From a technical side, we can think about developing caching strategies to improve the user experience for frequently viewed media content. Time based annotations of streaming media and we do this through a multiplayer game and the motivation is to actually collect dense time based annotations over the video. If two players agree on attack, players get points. If the difference in time between 2 two players submitting the same tank is very small and entering the same text twice within a cool down. We're going to talk about mostly about collective tech recommendation, but you can also think of other ways to personalize the tech recommendation by taking the social dynamics and application of a medium mining, which we call Tech Explorer, where we can actually browse for interesting photos and finally a body of research on placing Flickr image on a map. 2009, So let's think about the syntactic classification of tags. So we use vert Nets. So you see that location and artifacts or objects is what is dominantly annotated by users in Flickr, which is really nice. We first need to classify Wikipedia pages, and for that we're going to use the structural patterns that we found in Wikipedia pages. So it's not licensed content. It's not content that is owned by professional organizations such as Getty or Corbis, but it is contributed by users by users for users. So I went to Barcelona. So a few things are used to describe many photos. Many people now actually use maybe many people annotate photos of the Socratic familiar, so there will be, I think, about 36,000 photos that actually contain the technocrat familiar. And they do this in combination with other tags. So we did the an experiment with this, so we took a snapshot of 500 million public photos from Flickr with annotations, and we build a probabilistic framework which is built around Tech Co occurrences. So assume. The photo is annotated with a number of tags. A set of tags, because now if I have. We only use the tanks so. There is quite a body of work using other other contexts or dimensions like visual dimension in this case. We found based on this evaluation that 70% of our first suggestion was good and would actually be accepted, yes. So basically to summarize, in 70% of the cases, the first suggestion was good at least. So there are many ways to extend this work. Right? Whatever you can think of and then we ask those five assessors from this random pool of photos to judge whether the tags that were recommended were good. Attacks, it has an ambiguous meaning, or it's not sufficiently specific. And we want to measure the ambiguity of attack set. We find related tags. If you have the term Jaguar, adding zoo will largely disambiguate the topic of your query or the topic of the text set. It can be based on time temporal, so there are many different things. A concert for instance can be given at many different places and time. It is also user distributed content, so you don't just upload your photos on Flickr. On a map using only their tags.