[0.0s - 29.0s]
Generation of of search. How we are trying to improve our search engine.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So that is so that is what I will be talking about today. So before the break there will be the two topics of median direction and media mining and after the break we will talk about media search.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, So what May?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Flickr Special of course. They have beautiful pictures, beautiful pictures where you can add a title. There is a person to this, like a personal fame where people uploading the pictures can say this is my picture. I really like it and people tag it and tagging was one of the first means to actually make your large image collection retrieval to other users. So the introduction of tagging even though it was not novel, is something that is essenti.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Go to Flickr. So what else? So it's not licensed content. It's not content that is owned by professional organizations such as Getty or Corbis, but it is contributed by users by users for users. So everyone just uploads his picture and he wants to share it. So there's like a social fame. As part of it, people start discussing photos and I think that's an important.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Art. So it provides the means for interaction with users. It also allows a single use to organize this their content and to describe it to have it discovered by others and even other people can contribute to this by adding new tags. OK, so this part. I want to go pretty fast, so you have your text now. Also you can if you have friends in your network you can allow friends to actually annotate photos of you as well, which actually is very useful because it doesn't mean that you have to do all the work yourself. But it is the collective thing that makes the annotation more worthwhile. The thing which is very important is what are actually people using to tank. So in media mining I will spend like 1015 minutes talking about OK. What do people actually use? What do people actually take their photos with? Are these locations people, persons are text meaningful? One question I would like to really have addressed this when is a photo annotated properly? When do we have enough text for photo? This particular photo? Right now it has to tax Church World Travel, Europe Cathedral, Paris, Emitra. And is this sufficient? Do we need more tax or can we actually eliminate some text? And with that also have detect sufficiently described? So one thing which is very dominant in this picture is Sky, but is Sky useful tech? So those are the questions that we need to ask ourselves, especially when it comes to providing new services to users such as tech recommendation, but also in your in the context of search.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
It is also user distributed content, so you don't just upload your photos on Flickr. People can use it through the API's. And the content is available on other sites, so actually it allows you to host your photos somewhere else where usually media is quite voluminous in size that you need, and people on other blocks can simply call the Flickr API and include Flickr images on their website. And it's also something that was valued very highly by the.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Just in the beginning. Finally. There is the exposed API where you can actually do many more things, so people actually were thinking about developing new functionality. This is 1 example. I think it's already pretty old. I'm not sure if it's still there, but actually you could play with the color distributions and that way apply a filter directly over the photo that was downloaded. And change the look and feel of a photo this way. Another very nice feature that that was developed as an application on top of it is that you type in a phrase. In this case it says welcome to ICD. And then based on photos that were uploaded on Flickr, you would have your phrase in pictures. Where do the letters of the words are now depicted in the picture?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
OK, so these four things. Created an ecosystem which we became very popular and many people have been using it and actually only a few people have been working it. So it means that just if you have a good idea, build it and if it becomes popular you can become very famous at the same time many people are trying to do this and only if you succeed. So it's very important to realize what are the aspects. What are the incentives for users to make something useful? Personally, I don't have the answer if it. If it would then I would start up a new company and do something cool I think so, it's very.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Difficult to do this. OK, so then just to give you a thing. So this is now given. Everyone knows the concept of tech clouds, So what people typically are typically are taking in this case is our time related defense birthday, Christmas, June, July, summer. But also things which are related to location. Right, so that's what you typically find. Those are the very. Dominant thanks.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
It's in the in the in tech collection, so one of the research things that they have been done, and this is actually done by a colleague of mine graphic Kumar. And is that you analyze? What are people talking about? So this is a research project called Taglines. And it analyzes overtime. The things that people have been talking about. So I hope it's still visible. You see some photos sliding by from from right to left and every photo has some tax associated with it. Is this is readable? It's not that can actually try to. This is better I guess. No. No, it's hardly better. OK, but in any case what you see is that we detect the events that actually occur while people are uploading their photos and taking their photos.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So the basic for this is very, very simple, so they're interested in what makes another object interesting for an interval. So if it occurs more frequently in a given interval, let's say an hour half a day, six hours, a full day, maybe a week. Then it should occur more frequently within the interval than it occurs outside the interval. And of course you should be very aware that if something happens only once or twice, which we also often referred to as the detail of the of the tech distribution, then you should not really pick that up. So the trick is to pick up those terms which are important, and for that you can actually rely on the basics of information retrieval. The vector space model where you have the term frequency and inverse document frequency, which together actually give you a very good estimation of what tanks are relevant. So then the only thing that you need to do is to look at the number of occurrences per second or per. Our within the interval and things and how frequently the same occurrence is the same object occurs outside the interval. And this gives you a way to actually find the most representative frames so you can look this up and find more research on this on techlines.sandbox.researchsandbox.yahoo.com. I will put a link on.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Kent another body of work which was done by more Namin in Berkeley, which I also really liked and I think he was also one of the. One of the trendsetters is to use mobile information. Many people are mobile, uploading the photos, taking the pictures, and the zone tech application that he came along with actually allows you to be aware of other people in your facility. Friends also using zone tagging, and you can actually borrow the text that they have been using for their photos to annotate this. So suppose that we're in this room. People take pictures of the spring school. Then spring school might be actually very good event tech for this week, and so if other people are using it, they'd effect that you can actually borrow the taxes actually useful, and it helps you to annotate your photos without actually having to do anything. So that is own tagging.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And and so that's like the old work. This is what was done in the beginning. So now let's let's have a look. This is published at Web Intelligence in 2007. So. Not ever have all these photos on.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Liquor. And the estimate is about three 3.5 billion photos that have been uploaded that we have about 12 million Web users. I don't claim clog me on this because I don't know the exact numbers, but this is about the number of users we have more than 4000 photos being uploaded per minute. It's stunning if you have to think about the infrastructure that you need to actually support it. And at peak times, and this is a quote from August 2007, so it's actually already pretty old. We see that there can be up to 12,000 photos being served per second, so that requires that you have a huge infrastructure and that everything is very optimized. And it also claims that making changes in such a large framework is very difficult. Making one small change might have actually a big effect on the entire organization, so you have to be very careful with it.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK, but I was going to talk about Bruce looking so I wanted to work on the characterization of the usage behavior of Flickr. So when are people looking at the photos that have been uploaded? Who is looking where from where are they looking at your photos? And these three aspects you actually can capture by looking at the query logs, the Apache query logs of the people that actually access Flickr. It's not going to be about why people are taking taking their photos, and this has been researched by by many other people. Cameron Marlowe, which she knows working at Facebook also more was involved in this and also not about what people are taking. What we will discuss later in the meeting, in the medium mining part. OK, and the focus now will be mostly on.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
When? So this is the following idea. I took the access logs of Flickr. Expensive period of 60 days, which in this case had about 1.8 million public photos. The only photos I was interested in where the photos where you actually looking at the detail of the photo. The large picture, because the 12,000 photos that I was talking before is a large part is thumbnails. But the real impressions where you actually look at the real photo. That's where a user has expressed its interest, right? So that was a dead bird. Photos that were interested in these photos. You want 1.8 million photos that were uploaded in the first 10 days of the 60 day. And each photo is tracked in the consecutive 50 days. So if the photos uploaded on the second day, it will be tracked 50 days afterwards, right? So that there is the same amount of days. That every every photo is tracked. Anne. In addition, and I think this is very popular, many people do this. I use some data that can be collected through the Flickr API, information that is extracted from get info which gives you information about the tags, the title, the owner of the photo, how many views it had. So this information is also consumed. Still there, the context, like the groups that it appears in and public list. And finally within yeah we have this nice mapping surface where given an IP address you will get the longitude, latitude coordinates of the presumed location of the user and you have to realize that this is a bit dangerous to to use, mostly cause 50% of the cases people are going to use Internet large Internet providers with dynamic IP's like AOL or they're using VPN connections. Which actually altered and it gives the user different position in on the map. But given that we have this noise we wanted to use this information.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK, so just given that we have are 1.8 three, 1.83 million photos. It generated over 50 days only 6.7 million views. So popular and impopular photos don't get that many views. And actually I'm only talking about the photos that do get a few in this, in this case at least one view which you can see from this. It's plotted on a log log scale is that it can be very very nicely modeled with. The power law where the number of the probability of having a photo having a number of visits. Is proportional to X to the power of minus .7. So it can be very.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Nicely plotted with a power law. Let's try to look at it differently. Ann. And take order the photos. Better popularity, put them in buckets of 10% slices. The topmost slice is already responsible for 50% of the total number of views, so 10% of the photos get 50% of diffuse, and that's. Actually very interesting to see, so now it would be really nice to know what if we can predict what these photos are right? Which photos will get a lot of views. So that is one of the things that we were interested in. Also, what you can see here is that 50% of the photos only get one few. Right, so that's the other side for 55th Santa photos, so roughly about a million photos only have one few over 50 days, so this is a very skewed distribution.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So, given that we have now these different buckets, the different slices, what happens with the the number of views per day that they get and independence of the total number of views that they will have after 50 days? We see that they all follow the same trend. In this case, what you see is on the X axis you have. We have plotted the the number of days on the Y axis. We have plotted the number of views per day. And what you see here is that after the first day. They have the very popular photos, will have around 9 views. It goes up. And has a peak at the second day after 48 hours and in the following 48 days the number of views per photo is declining. So this is actually very interesting because it means that. Only within 2, three or four days. A photo will have most of its views.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
This is not a way to look at it. So on average, after three hours, 3 hours after being uploaded, a photo has 3.6, three point 6 views. If it's in the in the top most popular slice sort of slice. Is actually based on the total number of views that it will have after 50 days, right? And already after 48 hours. The total number of use it gets is about half the number of users will have after 50 days. So the social mechanism is very important. People are getting aware of photos have been uploaded very soon after the moment that have been uploaded.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So this actually allows you to distinguish. This is the same view, but in in a plot which actually makes it even more apparent, which you can see is that the first the popular photos already have doubled the amount of fuse in the first 3 hours, and if this is a characteristic that we can use, we can think about caching those photos, because if after three hours we know that this will be, this will be a popular photo. Then we can put it in the cache. And get a better experience for the user, right? So that's something that we're interested in, and that would be a way of using this.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Information. This is the total number of unique views. After three hours, so when when is a photo discovered and you see that most of the photos that ever get popular are already discovered within 48 hours, so only a very small proportion of the photos is discovered after the first 48 hours hours of being uploaded.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
OK, So what can we do with this? First thing, it would be nice to be able to predict the popularity of a photo and now in this in this short presentation are you discuss the temporal aspect. But the social indicators are very important. How people are interacting, how you actually see your photos and a lot of this comes through your personalized Flickr homepage where the photo stream of your context is immediately available. So social information and the groups that you participate in is very important. From a technical side, we can think about developing caching strategies to improve the user experience for frequently viewed media content. At the same time. And I also didn't discuss this. A lot of the photos, so I'm living in Barcelona to give you an example, I'm living in Barcelona, but my family friends, most of them are still in the Netherlands, so if I would upload a photo on Flickr the the location where I would expect actually my most most of my views from would be in the Netherlands. Right, so from that perspective, it might be actually nice to think about a peer to peer or business to business to peer storage strategy, where the infrequently feud photos which are only of interest to those people that actually are in my social group. That those photos are stored close to my friends in this case, so my photos should have been stored in Netherlands because I expected most of my views will come from the Netherlands. Whereas if a photo will become popular, it should be distributed over the entire peer to peer network so that it is successful quickly accessible to everyone.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK, so that was one one piece. Of research that we carried out about Flickr. So let's let's think about video because video so photos is very easy to deal with, But video is also growing very rapidly and the popularity of YouTube really shows you that this is something that people want like to watch and also the bandwidth and capabilities of network capabilities actually allow us to do this kind of things. Sharing video over the Internet. But the same is true for video. That was true for video. For photos, you need to be able to annotate your photos. And video is not just a photo, you cannot describe it with 1, two or three tags becausw it changes. There are scenes in there, especially for longer video. You might need more, thanks. Moreover, you would like to have your text to be. Set on the timeline of the video so that the moment in the video which really relates to attack is annotated with that particular tag.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So this is all the video tech game is all about. Time based annotations of streaming media and we do this through a multiplayer game and the motivation is to actually collect dense time based annotations over the video. Anne. And ultimately, if you would be able to to make this work at large, it would enable the retrieval of video fragments rather than entire pieces of video, so.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
This is how it works. We're going to play the game in a minute, so it's a multiplayer game setting. We're going to watch a video. The video will not be stopped, it will. It will continuously keep playing if the network connection allows us to do this. I'm going to ask each of you to help annotating this video that you will come to the front in a moment and you will start typing the video and there is a scoring mechanism. This core mechanism rewards tax being entered by us in the room that also have been entered by other players waiting to play this game, or in this case it probably will be pre recorded game and the more tank agreement there is with the other users, the more points we will receive. It's a temporal mechanism. That's the more closing time you enter the same tag. The more points you will get for it, yes. Would be interesting. Have you seen the SP game? OK, So what was very familiar with the SP game? OK, so this is a game that was originally developed by Carnegie Mellon. And do you speak? Game is a photo annotation game where you're going to log into a. Do a framework and you're signed up with someone else and you're asked to provide attack for that photo. If you agree on the tag, you go on to the next photo and you do this for I think a couple of minutes. And that way you actually accumulate points social social fame. And. Then why do they do this? Because they have too much time. I think in this case there were a lot of lot of students there were looking for fame. It's it's like. It's thrilling to be famous. They have all kinds of motivations, sorry. They really do it. I can encourage you to look at this. There downside of these kind of games. There is also a downside is that it's popular for a certain amount of time and then popularity decreases and actually it requires these kind of games require that there is continuous innovation to keep the people playing these games interested in contributing and keep tagging videos or votes in this case. OK, so this is how it works in London. We have a Red 5 communication server. There's a flex application which is the front end that communicates with the Red 5 server we have. Videos from videothatyahoo.com. In this case, we're going to use movie trailers and we have those streams available. There is a web client web client connects to the Red 5 communication server. You're signing up for a game. At that point, we're trying to find other people in the network. It also want to play a game at the same time, so there is a synchronization time of think 5 till 7 seconds. At that point we start streaming video to the Web clients and at the synchronized points everyone starts typing. Thanks in the interface and starts collecting the time. So it's time based. The same starting point and when video trailer is finished. We stopped the game with single Nice again with the other users and you can see the tanks that have been annotated, can I? Ask you to go.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Front, OK, so these are the rules. If two players agree on attack, players get points. The more points you have. If you have a tech for more points are rewarded for attack. If the difference in time between 2 two players submitting the same tank is very small and entering the same text twice within a cool down. Will not give you additional points. Right, so this is a way of cheating. If you see that you get 20 points for entering house, and you can type in house another 10 times and hoping that you get a lot of points for it, it will actually not work. Contrary, it will help someone else because it will reduce the amount of time at another person might might have typed in house and we actually tried to find the best match where for the similar.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
OK. Let's stop this. Oh no, it's OK, so I hope it works because I had some problems with their. OK, so this is the interface. If you go to video tech game that sandboxthatyahoo.com and you're logged into the whole network. We have a Yahoo ID. Then you can actually join us in this game. You have to be very quick though. OK, so we're now going to join a new game. We're keeping track of the of the stats some people have been very phonetic in type it, and you see that the best best type or actually had a score of 975 points for a 2 minute game. So the game last two minutes. OK, this is really bad. OK, I'm going to give up on this. I would like to thank. Rather anyway for being so brave to come up front. OK, let's let's let's switch to the video. I was afraid this might happen. And so we're going to watch the pre recorded video of this and unfortunately doesn't have the sound. I would like to invite you to shout anyway because it's nice to keep shouting. So let's let's get started. Anne. This is actually the moment I have for the next 2 hours. I assume that you will be silent and now we have the moment to start shouting. So in this case we're going to start a game. We're waiting for other players. This will be the screen where we see the videos. We have 10 seconds to wait for the players. The number of points that every player accumulates during the game will be shown here. This is the box where we can actually start typing our tags. OK. So this is I jumped a little bit forward, so this is a point in the in the game where. Where people are annotating the video So what you see this player is is now tagging the video. With tax. And he gets points for it. There is the remaining time. In this case it's 2 minutes, 25 and the score that he accumulated so far is 42 points. So let's go. What would you? What would you type in this case? Shot. Accountable. All hidden, let's see if you can. If you can predict the text, that will be timed right? So sometimes it's actually pretty pretty difficult right to do if there's not a lot of action in the video, then it's actually hard to know what you're typing. Wool. So the shouting we couldn't hear. So audio is actually important part of the video. Sneak in. Dog cats, I think this is a cat, right? So he's he said being type, which is an emotion. So what? So what is very interesting to realize about this? Water people now typing when they see this right? What are the words that they they enter? Are these actions? OK, so let's move on a little bit to the year to watch the end of the video. With 10 seconds to play. OK, so this is when the video has been played and at this point we're going to show you the trailer again and what you see here is now that there is a bar underneath the video. And it contains the tanks that have been entered, in this case by all 5 users. So we had five people playing this game simultaneously. And. In total. In total there were about 2180. 80 is two 260 tanks, so we have 200. We have collected 260 tags for during 2 minutes while watching a video. A trailer that it actually was fun so. In this case, let me go back. So in this case, you see that you can see the text that have been entered. So briefly we had like the bar going over the screen that we showed you the text have been entered, but also interesting to see is like OK. What are the different users typing in at the same time? So here they actually agree on the term guards in a very close time window, and for that they will get points. But it is very interesting to see. OK, what are people typing in this case? And you can do a lot of research on it and we're actually collecting some data for this and analysis of this still needs to be done. But The thing is like, OK, what are people typing and what are the tax that they are entering during such a game? And actually can we think of mechanisms that make the text at the end are more meaningful because House dog, although it's dog is very relevant in this in this? In this video it's not a very expressive. Tech, it would even be nicer. Suppose that you're watching a real video, not an animation, that the name of the actress, for instance wasn't identified, or the character name in the play itself. OK, so this was. Something which started this fun and if many people like it and that's where the dynamics of social media come in, then it can become popular. These things in the video. You can have five attacking framebyframe, so to say no. Can you use that in some way? So the way that can do the way that the potential application for this is that we would like to enable the retrieval of video fragments, and rather than entire video. So in this case, suppose that you would not do this for just the trailer or the entire video, and it would allow people to annotate parts of the video every time two or three minutes. Then you get very dense annotations, and now if you want to make this video searchable, you simply index the time based text and then retrieve the video fragments where these tasks are most relevant. We actually didn't initially in European project we did an application of this where we had a video search demo where we actually were using this kind of fragment annotations. Time based on that.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Asians? OK, just to see what happens. So we actually run this as a sick IR demo in 2007. And during a 2 hour time frame it was like in and we made a game room like this. We had like 5 six computers. People could line up, they could annotate video. We played 27 games, I think during 2 hours we had 60 players participating in this and we collected a total of almost 6000 tags. The interesting part is that most of the points when they actually most of the points were. Where the highest amount of points that you could get for Attack agreement, which is if people agree on attack within 2 seconds. So within 2 seconds of each other they type in the same tech and it turns out that this is where we find the highest agreement of tanks, which is actually very interesting to see, like how well people are able to annotate a video. It also means that there is a slight delay in the moment that attack is entered and the moment you see something, and we found that this is also very small in the order of 1 to 3 seconds depending on the speed of the of the typer.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
OK, so let's leave it at this. I would like to move on to the second topic which is media mining. So now that we have ways to actually collect all these texts, what is it that actually people are going to annotate? So what I would like to investigate the classification of tags. We're going to talk about mostly about collective tech recommendation, but you can also think of other ways to personalize the tech recommendation by taking the social dynamics and application of a medium mining, which we call Tech Explorer, where we can actually browse for interesting photos and finally a body of research on placing Flickr image on a map. Which is also very nice, especially because more and more people start geotagging their photos.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
OK, so about classification of text. This is something that was done together with the Simon over L&M broker broker Bjornson. In his published wisdom.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
2009, So let's think about the syntactic classification of tags. We have this large corpus of tax and we would like to actually to know what people are annotating their photos with. What kind of things are they using? So we use vert Nets. The broad categories of word Nets as a classification schema. And and what you can see from here very clearly is, let's look at the small 1. First is that 52% of the tags that have been entered by users are actually matching tags in Word net. So the Dictionary of Flickr, which is huge. Only 52% of those tanks actually occur in Wordnet, so it's only only half of them. So what are the other 50% of tanks about then is the question. So we will try to address that later on. What we see that all the text that we could classify using Word net immediately is that 82 sorry. 28% of those tags are location tags. 16% of those are artifacts or objects. Then people are talking about persons or groups, 13% followed by action or events for 9%. And finally, time related things is 7%, then Wordnet has a very broad classification scheme and all the other classes which are smaller than 7%. Are good for 27% of the of the tax that we could classify. So you see that location and artifacts or objects is what is dominantly annotated by users in Flickr, which is really nice. But still this is only 52% of the tech volume I should say tag volume. This corresponds with only two percent of the tag dictionary, so tech volume is the total amount of text that we get in. If you look at unique text, we can only classify 2.5%. Of the tax in Wordnet. This is really small. Right, this is this is more than 95% of the things that we actually don't know what they're talking about.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So we would actually like to extend the coverage of the syntactic classification. So one approach that we had in mind is to use Wikipedia. And to classify actually Wikipedia pages using Word net. And then to create a mapping from tax in Flickr to the classified pages in Wikipedia using the classification scheme that we had for Wikipedia, we found that in the ideal world, if we could classify every document in Wikipedia, we could have an upper bound of the coverage of the tech volume close to 80% of the text that have been entered in use. The remaining 20%. Would be. Other languages in English. So most likely, if you would be able to do this in a multilingual approach, a large proportion of this of this 20% of the tech volume you can explain with it, but also another thing that uses very frequently do is they're going to concatenate tags. SSSMR which is not going to appear in any dictionary. I'm sorry it's a very popular spring school, but I'm pretty sure it will not occur in Word, not word net and people are actually concatenating words to actually form this kind of thing, so the remaining 20% it will be very hard to actually start classifying those. But suppose that we were able to get 80%. I think it would be very happy. So how are we going to do this so? We first need to classify Wikipedia pages, and for that we're going to use the structural patterns that we found in Wikipedia pages. Think of templates and categories. I will give you an example in a moment. An I'll give you before and already what we could achieve. We of course didn't get the 80%, but we could move from 52%. To 68% with new coverage of.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Check volume. So let's see how this works. So this is an example of a Wikipedia page. Wikipedia has many structured elements like the infoboxes templates that people can use, and the templates have a name. And templates are being reused across different pages. The same time you have the categories to the page belongs to, which is an hierarchical structure and also this hierarchical structure. We would like to use so we didn't use any of the text that was in the document, only the structural elements of it.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So this is how the system works. We take a Wikipedia article. We tried to map the title of the Wikipedia page to the word net lemma. We extract from the Wikipedia page structural patterns. Each word net lemma we map to word net category. And we throw this into a classifier. In this case we use SVM light. And the word categories for the Wikipedia pages will form our ground truth. So after this after we have learner classifier. We went to the other side, so now we take a Flickr tag. Try to map after normalization the Flickr tag to an anchor tag in Wikipedia, which then points to a Wikipedia article and allows us to give a word net category to the Flickr tag. Is this clear to people? So it's actually pretty straightforward system, but so this part is really straightforward using actually this. Allows you to any Flickr tag to map it to 1 anchor text. Map that to more than one Wikipedia article. And then several Wikipedia articles can be mapped to one or more Wordnet categories. So there is some sort of ambiguity in here, but the nice part that we found after analyzing our data is that although it might map two different Wikipedia pages, very often those different Wikipedia pages were about the same word net category. So we introduce ambiguity or or reintroduce a graph based approach where we first find many options that might apply. But because we reduce it to the word net category, we find that our precision of the classification actually went up. By aggregating different classifications into the most prominent were not category or the one with the highest confidence based on the on the confidence that we get out of the classifier, so that our classification system actually was pretty.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
It. An anchor text.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
This is a link. The text so. It will be hardly readable. This is a link MapQuest and Jancso in it in the anchor text is the text that is used. Do to capture the link, right? That's the anchor text.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
OK, so this is the performance. And it's a classifier and and the output of the classifier gives us a confidence in the classification. And I'm actually drawing two dotted lines and what you see here is that we can do a tradeoff between Rico. Sorry between precision and recall. So precision starts at points, .65 goes up to 9098 somewhere, while recall starts very high and then drops down to 20%. So now you can actually move the boundary of the confidence in your classification of the SVM classifier to decide whether you would like to have a very high precision in your classification with a low recall, which means that many pages Wikipedia pages remain unclassified. Or or to move it in this case to the left and be satisfied with the lower precision of your classification. But actually be able to classify more Wikipedia pages. So that is a day.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
And that you can make it depends on the application, how you want to use this. The next thing. Is we looked at how well we did for the different classes, so looking at person location artifacts in groups and what you can see very clearly here. If we use the we are going for high precision then our classification is very accurate. So we can do this up to 100%. We are very good in classifying locations and groups. Reasonably good at classifying persons, but we actually don't do so well for classifying artifacts and I will try to give you a very intuitive explanation for this. The Chrysler Building in New York is an artifact, but a paper clip is also an artifact. So the classification scheme from word net that we used wasn't very suitable and we should actually refine our classification scheme to handle these kind of things. Because if you need to classify a Chrysler building as an artifact or paper clip is an artifact that's actually pretty hard task. So we need to change our classification scheme and make it more suitable for the class that we need to do.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
So typically, and this is how things work. In within Yahoo. We work with API's, so we developed an API where given a term that you enter, it gives you the classes that we think apply. So in this case according to GMA. Wordnet sense this is an island. And Wikipedia. Also ranks it at highest as being a location with the confidence of .8. Big Apple. Which refers to New York City does not occur in in Word net, but based on our classifier on our Wikipedia classifier, we find that almost with the 80% confidence that this also should be a location. So this gives you an illustration of the power of using this that you can combine several sources where it Nets Wikipedia. We've also been thinking about Freebase or or some other structured corpuses. Where you actually can extract this kind of very simple information and allows you to classify tags that regularly you would not know how to classify in Word net.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Yeah. Wikipedia's re direction and immigration to let's say, dual. More precisely, classification, because disambiguation usually solves the term concept ambiguities, and it can give you. Buy it usually gives a let's say in parenthesis if your name is if a certain term refers to several concepts, gives you a class with emphasis. So we use this and we experimented with it. It's not included here. One thing which which which we thought was actually even more interesting is the language links. Right, because that makes actually directly your classifier multilingual if you can. If you can classify a page in one language and you can use the link to other languages other Wikipedia titles in different languages, then all the sudden with very low cost you become multilingual. So there are ways to extend this. OK, so the next thing I want to address this is color collective tech recommendation. It was also largely addressed yesterday, so I will not go into a lot of depth with this, but just give you a note.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Two of our approach. So let's give you the motivation. So I went to Barcelona. I took a photo infected cigarette, a familiar. This is a picture of Sagrada Familia which is beautiful church. And then two years later, I'm here and I actually want to find this particular photo, and my memory is not so good anymore. I'm getting also. So get out of Amelia. It didn't know the name of the church anymore, but I knew it was a church and it wasn't Barcelona. And there was this guy Goudie that actually designed it. So I type in this this query and and of course of course I will not find this picture because it was only attacked with cigarette familiar. So there is a need to have rich annotations. When is a photo annotated properly? So the task in this case would be to help use to provide rich annotations.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
So let's again look at the let's do an analysis of what people have been taking. So most photos have only a few tags where few photos have many tags.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Again, this is a power law. Ordered by their popularity detect frequency all tasks that we have in our in our data set in this case are tags and you can model this very accurately with a power login. So a few things are used to describe many photos. Most tax only disk.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
If you take photos so they are very precise, very specific. Many people now actually use maybe many people annotate photos of the Socratic familiar, so there will be, I think, about 36,000 photos that actually contain the technocrat familiar. And they do this in combination with other tags. So tech or kernels in this case is very meaningful and this is what I mean when I'm talking about collective knowledge that we actually can drive collective knowledge that if I only give you the tech class, are at a familiar, then I'm able to provide context. In this case, I can tell you where it is, view as related. In this case it's the architect that it is a church and it's all about the architecture. So those would be the tasks that you would typically.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Annotate this photo is. So we did the an experiment with this, so we took a snapshot of 500 million public photos from Flickr with annotations, and we build a probabilistic framework which is built around Tech Co occurrences. So assume. The photo is annotated with a number of tags. Then the number of times the photo contain attack is it. The number of times that photo contains 2 taxes, ID. INTJ, so now we can say something about the probability of. KTI being related to DJ. If we count the number of core occurrences of those two text together divided by the total sum of, in this case TJ occurring with any other term, and this gives you the conditional probability of this. So this is a very simple thing, and intuition is also very nice, because if you say. If you if you are interested in the probability of. Barcelona, given Sagrada Familia, will find that this has a score of .46, whereas if you give Goudy actually I should have used a different probability. If you are. If you're interested in the probability of Sagrada Familia given Barcelona. Then you would get a different score and the reasoning is that OK, how important is Barcelona for Sagrada Familia? And how important is secret Familia for Barcelona? Right, one of the two tax is more specific, so the genericness and specificness of tax is very important, especially if you want to do recommendation. You can easily find more generic tags right in this case given Sagrada Familia, it's easy to find Barcelona, but to adequately predict Sagrada Familia as a relevant tag for gaudior for Barcelona is much harder to do. So the real task of tech recommendations should be to actually predict the more specific tags which are relevant in context.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
The photo. So that requires that we're not going to look at the conditional probability of a single tag, but we're going to look at the conditional probability of attack. A set of tags, because now if I have. Barcelona soccer at Familia. As sorry if I have church in Barcelona as the text set. All the sudden, the conditional probability of scrubby Sagrada Familia being relevant to this text set is much higher than it would be for Barcelona alone. Right, so this is important. So how do we do this? So basically we take the product of the conditional probabilities. We applied Bayes rules. And we get a nice formula which we can compute for any given text set. So this allows us to release to reason about the relevancy of attack given a set of tags.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
OK, so that was the framework that we're working with and we set up a small experiment where we asked people to judge the relevance of suggested tag given a photo and a set of tags. So in this case we're looking at a picture of the London Eye in sort of the. Yeah. He had a long and I in in London. And it is annotated in this case with London Eye and themes, and we're trying to suggest tags. Some of these texts are more generic. Some of them, hopefully Southbank. Bridge. Which are in the context of this photo, relevant. Maybe bridge. You can call a lucky shot, but South Bank should be should be very very good. Are more specific tax and therefore useful for the user to increase the accuracy of its annotation. Why's this a bad idea? Are you a question you may go first? Recommendation we use some other contact information. So for example, the content of the feature or swept the text all the feature is available. No, we don't use it. We only use the tanks so. There is quite a body of work using other other contexts or dimensions like visual dimension in this case. And people try to actually given a photo annotated. Try to do image similarity and actually try to propagate text like this. Does it work better? I don't think so because visual analysis is much more difficult to do than textual analysis. So whenever you're doing a multimodal approach, or whenever you have multiple multiple modalities should go with the one that is the strongest. In this case, I think it's text 'cause that's what the tagging in the social media gives us as the strongest signal. And maybe we can improve performance by including visual analysis. Pictures opposite angle. I mean, it is pretty easy to use. Which one? What are sorry? Take a photo, yeah, so yeah, that's that's a very good suggestion. So many many times people upload stream of photos right? And from that you can have the context. Yeah, that's completely right. Yeah, it's a good suggestion. And there are many ways to extend this work. But I actually wanted to I had a question and I can tell anyone me why. It's a very bad idea to include this in Flickr. Why would it be a very bad idea to include tech recommendation as part of Flickr? Only the owner of the pictures. But the owner of the of the picture can actually decide, so we do. If you as a user the owner are uploading your photos will give you this as to suggest text. At the moment you start typing. Why is it a bad idea? Lazy, maybe just simply click on the offer. Yep, Yep. So that that's not a problem, right? OK, so the system you breakdown the system by not allowing innovation in the system, which is nice if you know that you know everything about the entire world, but new events. And I told you already that only 2.5 of the tech dictionary actually Maps to the word Nets and the dictionary is growing every day. This is a bad idea. So we will never. And I hope really never do this as part of a flicker and was very surprised yesterday to hear that this was part of Delicious. I think it's a bad idea, sorry to say. But we can, however, use this. We cannot use how use this information and the confidence in the suggested tags as part of the retrieval, so we don't annotate the photos with it, but we can enrich our index. Or whenever a user is searching for in this case London Eye. We can use the tech recommendation and knowledge that we extracted from Flickr. To actually extend the query with more terms. And weigh them based on the confidence that we have in those. To get better results.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
OK, so in summary, so targeting is very sparse or there are not many texts on the photo and there is a large diversity and what people used to annotate their photo. We found based on this evaluation that 70% of our first suggestion was good and would actually be accepted, yes. Maybe? This analysis how many people? Do you maybe or actually do store the information about the location from which pursuit? Maybe the user itself himself, so this this information usually is in users profile. And and you can also you can use the IP address of the place where photo was uploaded to use this kind of thing. So yes this is possible. This is maybe somebody was doing his coat of many times, so that's why some focus groups. Or those were different users? Yeah, it could be that you're that you're watching your own photos. A lot of times. I don't know this information, I don't know right now. So basically to summarize, in 70% of the cases, the first suggestion was good at least. In 94% of the cases there was one good suggestion in the top five, so the recommendation was encouraging and it can be improved using visual information using other photos, maybe even using your plot location of the user. So there are many ways to extend this work. One way that we extended it, and I'm not going to talk in detail about this is by having a personalized text suggestion. An Flickr doesn't so right now we're talking about collective knowledge. You can also think about generating a so called personal knowledge. Where you only in life your own text, the text of your Contacts, the people that you're friends with. For forever. Review and very short to say we found that using your friends that Cloud was a very bad idea. So the summary of that was what you have in common with your friends is not very good source to annotate your photos with the groups. However, that you participate in are very useful as annotations. So just to give you an indication so your friends actually do not have that much in common. As you might expect. However, you have a lot in common with the people that you expressed a common interest with. I'm sure it works for you. Our work to move in yesterday's lies is really also working for non famous small places. Random photos, not so sightseeing and so understand, yeah. If only become baloney, become better. So it's not working well, so we had when we were talking with this with people in product groups, the first thing they do that comes with a very weird tag that you've never heard about and it appears to be his hometown. And then of course your suggestions are immediately scrutinized, being relevant or not. Because and that's true, right? If you're the experts about what you know. So if you search for your hometown or things you judge the quality of things being very good or you're trying to find the edge is definitely there are problems there. Right? How many photos do you think sort of out of equality or pick type it to? This really is this trip to Barcelona because it was exciting and an intimate detail is the majority. It's a good fraction, because of course I I really appreciate it. Understand how. So this this this set of photos that we used, we actually pulled them at random just to give you the context, right? I'm not able to answer your question. I will say it up front. So what we did in this case is said we said OK, we had. I think like 55 assessors we asked each of these five assessors to give a topic of interest. An and based on those topical failing tricks we pulled at random. Photos that were related to this topic of interest. So I think of Iceland is a topic basketball. Whatever you can think of and then we ask those five assessors from this random pool of photos to judge whether the tags that were recommended were good. So we're not looking at ones own photos. If it was a random set of photos. Based on typical interest of a user, so we try to we try to factor in this. If we if we succeeded. I don't know. I hope we can say that we at least are reasonable that these numbers are a reasonable estimates. Look at my. The number of tax is growing that I get from my photos. Separation between or like a visual separation of these facts are recommended. Yeah, so I'm. Probably in in in half a year will do a demo on this. We're working on this. Actually. We're working on exactly this, so I suppose 1. One thing that we're working on so you can think of.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Something like this and where we and now we have to different modalities, personal tax, collective tax context tax based on visual analysis. So we're actually doing also visual analysis, geographic analysis. What are the text that we recommend and for all these different modalities were trying to see like OK how do we find these tags? So this is we're working on this and actually the next body of work about placing Flickr images on a map that refers approaches that would also be very useful in this context. But again, I think will never allow this as an application because it will simply jeopardize the social mechanism.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
I will never, but maybe you can actually build an API application on top of Flickr. Make it very popular and buy that doing that for slicker to actually start integrating this, I don't know. You're in control.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
OK. I hope if not, then you go somewhere else, right? That's that's a problem. So we need to satisfy the needs of users. So this is about resolving tech ambiguity. Some tags are ambiguous. There are many places called Barcelona. Even more places called San Francisco. I think there are about 72 places called San Francisco. If I type in. Elephants do I mean elephants in Asia or in Africa, right? So we need to. There's a need to disambiguate. Thanks and this is a body of work that relates on this and was published at a shelter.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
In 2008 so. We analyzing this problem. We found that there are basically two kinds of problems. Attacks, it has an ambiguous meaning, or it's not sufficiently specific. In that case, we would like to disambiguate the text set. And we found that there are three types of disambiguation. The first one is worth, since this simulation so Jaguar, it can be the animal, or it can be the car. Secondly, if you're if you have chosen already for Jaguar Zoo, then there is still the geographic specification. If it's Jaguar in a zoo, which you are we talking about because there are many zoos where they have Jaguars. On the other hand, if you have Jaguar car. We still have many different types of cars, right? So there are different levels of ambiguity when you have that accent, so this is the problem that we tried to.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
To address very shortly, so we we worked on a statistical approach using the same probabilistic framework that I discussed before, where we are able to predict. An suggest text thanks. Based on a set of tags. And we want to measure the ambiguity of attack set. How do we do this? We introduce a method to do pairwise disambiguation of text given a text set. We find related tags. And we try to measure which of the two related tax would best disambiguate this text set.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
So the intuition is is very simple. If you have the term Jaguar, adding zoo will largely disambiguate the topic of your query or the topic of the text set. And there are many such search applications such as Java. Some people might think of it as the programming languages. Some people might even associated with coffee. Or just as the location? Another example, spatial spacious example spatial example is Cambridge. We have two popular destinations, one in Massachusetts, the other in United Kingdom. So what I'm saying with this is that to resolve tech and big witty, you have to think about how you're going to resolve this, and ambiguity can live in different dimensions. It can be topical, it can be spatial. And I think there are there other ways it can be a social ambiguity. It can be based on time temporal, so there are many different things. A concert for instance can be given at many different places and time. And to really disambiguate it, you might actually need both spatial information and temporal information. So the way that we do it, and I'm not going to explain the details of this, but you can read it up in the paper is that we introduced a weighted KL divergent. Anne and.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
The motivation for that is the following. Suppose that we have the term. Cambridge. If we look at the distribution of tags. You will find that in this case there might be 2 bumps, one which is related to Massachusetts and the other two UK. Based on the fact that the distribution of the tanks is not uniform, it's not. It's not. It doesn't have one peak. We can consider this to be a ambiguous topics. If you now would add the term Massachusetts to Cambridge. We would eliminate the ambiguity. Right, and with that the KL divergent of the tax in which correspond to the query Cambridge, MA goes down. So Cal divergences difference measure the higher detailed aversions, the more different to detect distributions are. So, given that we have to take distributions one with Cambridge, UK, the other with Cambridge, MA. Adding Massachusetts to our original query eliminates the ambiguity. The same is true for UK, so that's the.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
The essence of this. And again, I'm not going to go in all of the details, but we found that we want to. We want actually like to explain the mechanism how good it is, and we found that we actually needed to go into different evaluations. So part of the disambiguation could be found in semantic disambiguation. The example of Java, where it can be a location or a programming language. Some of them are temporal only a small proportion of it, and a large proportion again as geographic ambiguity. OK.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Good, what time is it? Because I think we need to have a break soon now. 4.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
OK, 4 minutes. Will kiss. Find those properties. So we use the same approaches that we use for tech recommendation, so we use conditional probabilities and we can compute the conditional probability of attack given attack set exactly the same way as we were doing for for recommending text so. Purchase some kind of. They don't have to sum to one. They don't, and actually we're doing something else. We're proving that we don't, even because if you would like to compute the KL divergent over all possible texts corresponding to attack set. Then typically you will have a couple of million tags. Four and then you need to do the pairwise comparisons of each of these pairs. That's very expensive, so we actually found that we only have to look at the top 25 most likely tags that correspond, so we don't have to normalize this. Yeah. I.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
I'm going to skip this topic. So this is.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Something I would like you to explore. So if you go to techexplorer.sandbox.yahoo.com you will find this as an application and basically this is an application which allows you to browse for photos in Flickr. So basically starting with an initial tag clouds. Anne. With an initial tag cloud, you type in a query. In this case the queries Paris and we breakdown the text using the classification of text where I started talking about. At the same time we're using the tech recommendation framework for finding text which are related to Paris, and now you can actually start exploring Flickr using the tech recommendations and the breakdown of text using the classification. And the + in this case, which would refine your query while clicking on attack, actually generates a new query with that thing.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
So it's it's a fun thing, and it's mostly meant for people to actually spend a lot of time. People that have time. The same people that annotate videos, and the same people that do the SP game that would would actually enjoy browsing Flickr. Anne.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
OK, so finally before the break and I only have a few minutes. I understand for this. Thank you for moderating me is a body of work on that was published at Cigar in in 2009, which is about placing Flickr images on a map. And also Pavel was Co. Author of this work.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
This is in the room and can answer questions if you have. If you're going to make it difficult for me. So many of the photos that we have now get geotext because we have the nice equipment to actually geotech or photos using technology or. When people Simply put it on the map by hand. So this is an example of a photo which was Geo Tech. In in Boston and the photo was taken and now we have the geotech information.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
The question is, what can we do with this? So there are a large number of sites that actually support this. Flicker is one of them. I think a Panorama, a panoramio is the is the other one and it allows you to actually plot. The images on the map and then you can actually spatially explore photos.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
I'm going to skip this because it's it's very trivial thing. The fun part is that we now have many geotech photos and then we can start exploring locations like this. Sometimes it's really good, sometimes it's really bad if you take a geotech photo from your airplane. It doesn't really say anything about location. Sometimes the Geo tagging the either the users putting it in the wrong location or the devices is not accurate enough. So you find that this Jaguar is sleeping in the middle of the.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
See. And sometimes you can actually put it manually on a map. I'm going to skip this part because. It's pretty obvious you go. You go to Flickr and you. You actually find the region and say OK, this is where I took the photo. The accuracy of those kind of photos.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
Actually, we go down for the task is actually very simple. Can we help users map photos? On a map using only their tags. Again, the same applies as we talked about in tech recommendation. You can use visual content or the stream of photos to actually make it more accurate. In this case we only investigate it text the text themselves. Right now we have more than 100 million of Geo tech photos. This gives us a very nice text corpus to work with and start trying to predict where the photos are. Guess it, tears spatial ontologies. They're very nice. Work very good, but they're not always complete.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
So what we do? In this cases we take the. Longitude latitude coordinates put it on the map. And then. You can actually define arrester with a certain dimension in the order of kilometer, 10 kilometers, 100 kilometers around a certain region. And you can aggregate the photos that have been placed on that have been geotagged within a region which gives you a reason, a way to think about attack distribution within a certain cell. So now every cell becomes a location by itself and the trick now is.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
No, let me do this too. So the idea is now that we can use the entire text at the Jews have been giving to actually disambiguate, so in this case Peters Burg. Why might occur in against a tear, but we're actually looking at a very specific place within the guess it here, and we have additional context. In this case, the church me Taj. And Eva and it is sticking in the winter, which would actually pinpoint the exact location of this, and using that additional context that we get from text, we can do a better job in predicting the actual point where this photo was taken.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
So how does it work? Basically we have. We have all our locations which are the cells that we have been talking, which are documents we have. The text sets which will be our queries. Anne. Then the query terms are the text within the photo TI and for each of the terms in photo we can actually start predicting what would have been the most likely position where this photo was taken. The most likely sell where this was taken again, we want to do this for a complete text set, so we're going to take the product of all recommendations, apply Bayesian rule again, and in this case we smooth our prediction with the prediction of attack being specific for the location versus. The distribution, the spatial distribution of the tank.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
There are many more nice things with this and I.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
I'm going to skip it. To actually give some time for. Four for the break.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
Just to consider some some some problems and I think this is also related to the question that Suzanne was asking. Suppose that you have some very rarely fested locations. How well can we do in those cases? So it depends really on the richness of your data set. 100 million photos really sounds nice. Still, it's peanuts, especially if you're going to talk about rare locations. Which do not have.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
Love of geotag photos, or sometimes in this case we have photo of a cat and a dog, which can actually take place everywhere everywhere we have get some docs, so some photos. Actually we should not try to put on a map. Some call photos do have some some spatial information, but in this case this could. This picture could be taken anywhere where we have a beach and coast and rocks and I will assume we have lovers all over the world so it really doesn't help us to actually do any update or to predict the location of this photo.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
Sometimes it can be misleading, so if this one is stacked Italy, Australia. It has two very clear locations. But it is not irrelevant to the context of the picture, right? So that's also one of the problems that we have.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
Sometimes Russia and refering beer is the location is very large where it might apply to. So in this case it's very hard to narrow down where in Russia this picture would have been taken. Still we might be able to use to help the user by presenting the user with a map. In this case only showing Russia. Sometimes you might have several multiple locations which might be relevant, so you actually want to pinpoint the different locations where they might be interested in, and you leave it up to the user to choose one of those locations. Final words on this. I learned about this this yesterday and also powerful. This is part of this is that there is a special trick going on where the task is to put Flickr images on a map and this is part of medieval and it's going to start. Now. OK, so if you're really intrigued by this research, I would also encourage you to take up and get some get the collection that they will provide and come with your own ideas and make this better. And I think that's it for the break. So you get in 10 minutes. OK, 15 minutes.
