I'll cover the first lesson on generative models. There's another kind of tractable density model that uses a very different principle to set up the way of making the probability distribution tractable, and that's to use a change of variables formula. An invertible transformation between those two spaces. This basic strategy of using nonlinear ICA I just any kind of model where you have a nonlinear G function and then an independent distribution of the latent variables that dates back to the work of APO hyvarinen in the 1990s, and I think maybe even back to the 1980s. That basically concludes my description of the tractable density models. So we're still looking at the subtree of generative models that focuses on explicit density functions, where you can actually write down P submodel of X given Theta. So probably the most popular version of an approximate density model today is the variational auto income. The basic idea behind variational learning in general is you have a set of latent variables that will call Z and these are variables that more or less explain what's going to be in the input. You're not necessarily going to find the maximum possible value of P model of X, but you'll find a value that's pretty good. So the idea behind the variational bound is we introduce a new distribution over the latent variables that we're going to call queue of Z, and it turns out that the variational bound could be written as the log probability of X minus the KL divergent between our new distribution QZ and the true posterior distribution P of Z given X. If you can make them be identical. Basically, this means we want to try to find a way of pushing Q to be as close to zero as possible. Is that you can actually define a neural network that predicts the parameters of Q, so you can actually think of the neural network is being like an optimization algorithm where instead of explicitly taking several steps to solve for the Q that will match P of Z given X as closely as possible, the neural net predicts the value of Q. And the right I showed some samples from the cifar 10 data set that were generated from a state of the art variational autoencoder in 2016. The basic idea of Boltzmann machines is that they define a Markov chain where you can draw samples from the model by updating previous samples. And now we're moving to the last branch of the taxonomy of generative models that will show today. Instead we make a generative machine that generates samples from that distribution and being able to generate those samples is the only way that we actually interact with that representation of the distribution that we're learning. So the main example of this part of the branch is generative stochastic networks that yahshua invented in 2013. And the way that they do that is they have a generator function G which is just a differentiable function mapping from latent variable Z to X. We run it through the differentiable function G and we get a value of X that sampled from the model like the face that I show in the right and I've tried to show kind of a low quality image of a face that I just messed up a little bit in photo shop to illustrate conceptually the idea that the generator is not going to be perfect. This value indicates the probability that the input is real rather than fake, so when the discriminator looks at fake samples coming from the generator, it tries to say that they have very low probability of being real. This is called adversarial variational Bayes, but it's building on top of several models that came earlier, including adversarial autoencoders. So one thing that you can do with generative models is you can create simulated environments and training data. Another thing that you can do with generative models is you can handle missing data. Not all of them are used to approximate maximum likelihood by default. So does anybody have a guess of what this image is? So if you have a labeled image of a cat, you train the discriminator. So another thing that you can do with generative models besides semi supervised learning is you can actually train the model to know that there are multiple correct answers and you can tell it that we want to get one of these correct answers. If we pretend that all of these different generative models use maximum likelihood, then we can build a taxonomy that basically looks at whether they use an explicit density function or an implicit density function, and what kinds of approximations they need to use there. Blue says we want there to be cars and so on, and then an image to image translation model can actually generate. And you can think of you know very difficult situations where those cars boxing you in that might not occur very often in real training data and so you can exercise the model on more difficult scenarios. Just like earlier I showed you how the rotating head would become blurry if we try to use mean squared error to guess what the next rotating head would look like. You can see how there's two different columns of photos here. Both the ground truth and the real output. It's green, but it's made it leather. So we can kind of by Association learn to simulate almost by muscle memory, and it can be computationally much cheaper and save millions of dollars of CPU time to do these predictive experiments, rather than doing the Monte Carlo ones. It turns out that generative models can also learn embeddings for images, and presumably for other kinds of data that you could you could generate in this example from the DC Gan paper by Alec Redford and his collaborators, we see what happens if we take a latent space vector representing the concept of a man with glasses. So I represent the vector with the image that it decodes to here. You can then subtract off the vector representing the concept of a man, which I've also shown the decoded image of the man here and then you can add a vector representing the concept of a woman and you get a new vector that if you decode several noisy versions of that vector, you get several images of women with glasses, so you're actually able to do arithmetic in latent vector space, and this could enable lots of different things like. It starts with all the different generative models that can be coerced into doing maximum likelihood in one way or another. They actually have a P model of X given Theta that you can write down and maximize. So one of the most exciting recent developments in generative models is a paper called Plug and Play Generative Networks. It uses adverse aerial training like we used for guns. The basic idea is that you have a. Lunch event sampling is a special version of this that follows the gradient of the log density with some extra noise and the way that this paper works that's different from previous approaches is that it uses denoising autoencoders to estimate that gradient instead of. Explicitly computing that gradient exactly, and the denoising autoencoder has been trained with several different losses that do things like activate different features in a pre trained Imagenet classifier which helps to get these real. You can actually regard any vector valued piece of data as being a sequence, so you have some vector X with elements X one through XN. So you have P model of X 1 * P model of X2 given X one and so on until you have P model of XN. The first time this was done, it was called fully visible belief Nets by Brendan Frey and his collaborators, and basically each of these conditional distributions was something like a logistic regression model, but you can really fill in any kind of model that you want, and this chain rule will still make sure that you're able to get a tractable model over the whole vector. These models usually don't come with a latent code that describes the entire image or the entire vector. The more recent years after Brendan Fraser original work on the chain rule for building generative models, the modern version of these are mostly called autoregressive models.