To speed up drug discovery, so drug discovery is a really challenging field in engineering and science and unfortunately or well. Are mostly based on a piece of paper an opinion, so they draw chemical structure in there and then they test and it's a well you know the trial and error process. So at intelligent from now we have two quite different business lines. If we may have a really good culture, tools, or really good machine learning tools to be able to solve kushar problems properly, we could save millions to the industry and probably drugs would be designing more, faster, faster, cheaper and without so many risks. So in addition, well, as you can imagine, crucial computers can can. But then when you start to grow up and you start to experiment with dogs or monkeys, whatever rules are sometimes quite different, so would be perfect to have a mathematical tool that avoids using all these animals and we could save not only millions for industry, but also we could be more effic in performing less animal experiments if we would have more accurated mathematical models. Is a physical chemical property that may be used to describe a compound right. For instance, charge and molecular weight and things like that. Attributes more than. To achieve this, the first challenge is to. Sample different confirmations of the compounds to sample different angles and and then to measure all the internal energy for every confirmation. Estimate the probability density function and and this is done with Bushman distribution. Please ask so with those tools and making some mathematical manipulations at the end of the day, what we get is something like this. Infinite function space we want to translate that into a set of orthogonal basis functions. Obviously, several kernel functions know typical polynomial radial basis. What happened using the constant descriptor plus the mean values of the functional descriptors and obviously constant descriptors. The mean functional of descriptors and all the full functions that describe the behavior of all the properties. Well, the vision of the company is to be the leader in drug discovering, soaring computational drug discovery in Europe for the next three years. Now we are the leaders in Spain an all the Spanish pharmaceutical companies, and some of the European are our clients. So well, the first technical conclusion is that the annual polynomial kernel is the best one that we have 95. Obviously experiments were all the functional information was taken into account. Draw to better results. So just to finish with the company we we can make almost everything related with drug discovery. We can help our clients to identify new drugs to optimize drugs, we can discover new uses of all drugs we can determine. An almost nothing is known about about the lives organisms. The full process process cost around a billion using the build Barcelona of designer new drug. Is to find ahead ahead is a compound that works. So or usually when we have identified ahead what we need is a lead and all it is a compound that is doing what it must do, which could be for instance calling the flow or or removing the pain or whatever. We're working in several areas of the drug discovery process, but today I'm going to focus only in this in this part. For instance, molecular weight, number of rings, whatever. As you know, machine learning tools using toy problems are really good nowadays. This is reality and this is the reason why.