[0.0s - 29.0s]
Well, we've turned everybody. A well as's introduction said I mean as well done this year of the company Teligent Pharma, which is a company that is based in Barcelona. So the first thing that I should say to you is welcome to Barcelona. But having in mind that today is the last day what they should really say is, well, I hope that you spent a wonderful time in Barcelona and I hope to see you soon in the city. So well. But what did you do in in my presentation is first of all, explain a little bit my company intelligent forma an to talk in a general way about drug discovery, then to to be able to fully understand the solution and project that I'm going to explain how we would talk a lot about the problem on on on. How do you do you want to solve an Ant approach? The solution of that problem and how we could save millions of euros in discovering new drugs. By providing a good solution and finally I would. I will explain how we proceed on an Witcher dissolves and so on. So before starting, let me tell it two more disclaimers. The first thing is that I I I asked my colleagues in the company to make the presentation and unfortunately when I see the presentation to this I will. I show that there were like versions of equations. I'm intelligent one. So I remove all of them. Can I manage to to put only two equations? So forgive me if I'm not very precise in the in the presentation of the projects, but of course intermine anytime you want to ask something an if I don't if I don't know the question well, I would try to put in contact to the writer who is the expert in this field. The other disclaimer is that I, as you can imagine, I'm no mathematician and computer scientist, and in addition, English is not my mother tongue, so forgive me if I don't use the right mathematician term for in a given specifics.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
In France, right? Soil. Hyena spend these five minutes giving disclaimers. I will start with the presentation. Intelligence firm is a company that was founded by me 3 1/2 years ago and is located here in Barcelona. We are opening our offices through Europe and we opened our first international office six months ago in Germany and next month we will open our second National office in UK. And he's a company that is devoted to providing computational solutions. To speed up drug discovery, so drug discovery is a really challenging field in engineering and science and unfortunately or well. Fortunately for me, computer science and mathematics are is not really well introducing in this field, so methods that traditional pharmaceutical companies use to discover new drugs. Are mostly based on a piece of paper an opinion, so they draw chemical structure in there and then they test and it's a well you know the trial and error process. So at intelligent from now we have two quite different business lines. The first business line is about science is drug discovery. So we develop really cutting edge technologies to help our clients to be more efficient, more competitive in discovering new drugs. And the second is no so scientific, but is to provide computational technologies to be able to talk to our clients. To be more, you know, to deal with big databases with big number of compounds to join in a secure way, different R&D centers and so on. So it's more a technic part. So now I'm will be completely focusing in our scientific.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Park part. So. Well, the vision of the company is to be the leader in drug discovering, soaring computational drug discovery in Europe for the next three years. Now we are the leaders in Spain an all the Spanish pharmaceutical companies, and some of the European are our clients. So the goal is to be the European leader in this field. So as it will be for our mission is to help our clients to be more efficient in discovering more drugs, new direction. So that means. Do to help Tori claims to be more. To discover drugs with lower cost, more quick and with less risks. As you may know, discovering a new drug is a really expensive thing. The average is 1 billion dollars to discover new drug. The amount of money that you must expand. You normally take like 12 years for every new drug and only one among 15 drugs that enter into into clinical trials are able to arrive finally to the market. So he's a really slow, expensive and high risk field, and this is the reason why using compositional and artificial intelligent techniques we can.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
8 to our clients. So just to finish with the company we we can make almost everything related with drug discovery. We can help our clients to identify new drugs to optimize drugs, we can discover new uses of all drugs we can determine. I don't know hitters discovering new mechanism functions. We can make predictions about toxicology. I mean is a really wide set of services that we provide to our clients.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So to be able to achieve all these services, we have a strong guarantee Department, intelligent pharma. And now in the company we are 20 people an I would say 80% of them are doctors so we. Carry out plenty of R&D in in in these four fields which are artificial intelligent procedures. Visual screen technologies, which is correlated to chemistry quetion mythologise that's what I'm going to talk about today and finally, technologies to distribute the calculations in parallel. Computing cloud computing. All these kind of things.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Toilet now I presented you the company and I'm going to introduce the problem, but I think that the best thing to talk about the problem is to explain the full context to have a good picture of what was going on in there. As I told you, making a new drug is a really expensive flow and risky task an and the main the main reason from a mathematician POV we want to sit like this is that really few things are not are known about the system I mean. To to to outsiders. Maybe life Sciences is a is a science that that is not from from plenty of years ago, but from insiders is a really mysterious thing. You never know what's going inside the life Organism. You sometimes touch one one point over over over Cascade and then The thing is over regulated by another side. So it's really complex systems. An almost nothing is known about about the lives organisms. So for us is like a black box, so using mathematician tools us as data mining or or mathematical models to model this black box is a good tool to try to work with that. Another important things are concerns so concerns unfortunately are very usual. I mean, you cannot treat whatever the flu. If then you are going to destroy the liver right? Because it doesn't. It doesn't make an equilibrium. Maybe you can treat a cancer and you are allowed to destroy your liver, but you must be very aware of you what you're doing because you are treating with lives on people. So constraints are usually quite diffuse and envision nobody has concrete or specific rules about those constraints, which makes that even difficult. The first thing is noise. Noise is a really, really problem in this field because sometimes you you have find you think that you have found something really interesting. A drug that is quitting whatever and then you test it again and it doesn't works. So that's nice. Sometimes that day was sunny and the sun draw the atmosphere of the lower story, so that provoked that sale was having a different behavior. And then you thought that your compound, your molecule, that you were testing was successful, but that was noise. So doing experiments in different laboratory, different conditions, different hours of the day. Brings us to different results. ANAN is also very hard to deal with this kind of of noise that we even don't know if it's Gaussian noise or whatever, but. And the third thing, surely the first thing is that, of course we are dealing with challenging problems related with multidimensional optimization. There normally thousands of dimensions where when we have to optimize the drug, there are plenty of different things and what I normally say is that the number of dimensions to work with is normally higher than the atoms of the universe. As you can imagine, we have to do something to work in this in this space. Well, I'm finally. The thing is, is is really really challenging, but in addition. The full process process cost around a billion using the build Barcelona of designer new drug. So normally people think that pharmaceutical companies are big entities that earn a lot of money, but they are. The reality is that this is a really. Challenging business with plenty of risks and the inversions that must be done are really, really huge.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So well. Which which is the typical initial process when designing a new track. The first thing to do? Is to find ahead ahead is a compound that works. It doesn't matter if if it cures the flu and then destroys the liver, doesn't matter, but it's clearing the floor so that's a hit. A compound that is doing what has to do without having them without taking into account order, toxic effects or other side effects. So that's the first part and that normally takes. 1 two years on and two $1,000,000. So or usually when we have identified ahead what we need is a lead and all it is a compound that is doing what it must do, which could be for instance calling the flow or or removing the pain or whatever. But in addition is not toxic, it can be illuminated easily from the body. It has not important side effects whatever, so that may take like 4 five years on the average cost of this stage. Is between 10 and and and short between 5:00 and $10,000,000. But before doing this second stage of trying to optimize your head to remove all the toxic effects, the thing that you must do in between is to try to optimize your head to be really sure that the heat that you have found is the best compound to enter into the lead optimization. So these states, which is outlining here it takes like. Two years and between 2 and 5 million unused. What is called in the infield hit optimization?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So. In this particular point of heat potentiation is where we have been working in this in this project and intelligent farmer. We're working in several areas of the drug discovery process, but today I'm going to focus only in this in this part. So he took him in his optimization. Machine learning is important. Why? Because we have a database of compounds that they may perform well or bad, but we know which is the activity of those compounds. We then can make a mathematical model that is modeling those compounds depending on the physical chemical properties of the molecules. Show once we have this model, the obvious thing that we can do with that is to make predictions so we can take a new compound that we have not synthesized and we don't have tested with animals. We can pass the molecule through the model and then we can predict the properties to see if that may be an even better hit or not than the previously identified hates so. This.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Step is what is known as crucial that stands for the English words of quantitative structure, activity, relationship. So a compound or a molecular which I normally use towards to refer to the same concept is something like this. These are typical different representations that I took from Wikipedia about a compound. So normally when people carry out. Future strategies the usual thing is to describe that compound with different physiochemical properties. For instance, molecular weight, number of rings, whatever. It charge whatever to do to make what we call in data mining or machine learning as the attributes, right? So they're moving around on spinning and some properties are changing continuously, so to achieve or to model such properties such flexible properties people have traditionally used what we call sell those three dimensional descriptors which at the end of the day are very simple and stupid things like. They have this grouping here. Yes, not they have this group here. He is not. Do we have these kind of rings? Yes no. So with this we can build thousands of descriptors an you know this is like the courage of the multi multi dimensionality right there. People used to think that introducing more information in the system will will allow us to make better, better or best models. But the reality is that since we are intuition more dimensions in the system and the number of. Of entities or samples is exactly the same that before then we don't have another information to make a proper.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So. As you know, machine learning tools using toy problems are really good nowadays. I'm tired of seeing an papers that are working with Iris and all these kind of you see problems that they perform really really good prediction rates. But the real situation in culture is that. Seldom we get higher rates of more than 70% and believe me, 70% is a really crucial are really good kisser model the usual thing is 50% which if we're measuring for instance, toxicity if we want to predict if a compound is toxic or not, having a 50% of your rate is exactly same that throwing a coin and then saying, well, toxic toxic so Keuchel is not working. This is reality and this is the reason why. Pharmaceutical companies and biotech companies that are designing new drugs. They seldom disclosure.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Nevertheless, you can imagine that. If we may have a really good culture, tools, or really good machine learning tools to be able to solve kushar problems properly, we could save millions to the industry and probably drugs would be designing more, faster, faster, cheaper and without so many risks. So in addition, well, as you can imagine, crucial computers can can. You should consider all stages not only to pass from hit delete. I mean to generate several compounds and to see if they are better than the previous one. But we can. We can try to predict if in the future we will see toxicity in humans or or in higher order living Organism which is are really complex task because normally when we used when you start your research you start working with flies or or small money first. Like a mouse and things like this. But then when you start to grow up and you start to experiment with dogs or monkeys, whatever rules are sometimes quite different, so would be perfect to have a mathematical tool that avoids using all these animals and we could save not only millions for industry, but also we could be more effic in performing less animal experiments if we would have more accurated mathematical models. So all the reasons are are the reasons that have led to intelligent Pharma to research very in every intensive manner in this field.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Well which which are working hypothesis in in this in this field, in this particular case of queues are the hypothesis are that. Q shirt is not good enough nowadays, mainly because people is using constant attributes. What for me what are constantly would for me? Sorry I'm talking before that. I will. I should define what is an attribute and what is an instance, which is quite obvious, I mean. Is a physical chemical property that may be used to describe a compound right. An instance is is one of the compound one molecule. So having this definition in mind. For me, the biggest problem nowadays in culture is that attributes that people used to use our planner or uni dimensional attributes. For instance, charge and molecular weight and things like that. So I didn't before molecules are promotional entities and addition. They are flexible, so there's some attributes which are really important from my point of view that they are continually changing on on these things nowadays are not taken into account in normal queues are campaigns, so a typical descriptor that is never used and I think it's very important is volume right? Imagine that you have a molecule. Only this and then you can measure the size of the molecule by its molecular weight weight, but. At the end of the day, the gravity doesn't affect to that compound to save that compound is toxic or not, but. What what people and scientists are doing is to use molecular weight to as as as a sign of the dimension of the of the compound. So what we pretend to do or what we're trying to do is to use other, more accurate descriptors. For instance volume. But the problem with volume is that if the compound is spinning and turning around, then the volume may change. So first of all we need machine learning tools that are able to deal with functional. Attributes more than. One point attributes right. So in the future the accurate question from my point of view will be based on tools that are able to treat in a proper way functions as a descriptors of the instances, and this is the field where we are researching.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Show well. Our compound is is something like this simplifying a lot, right? On and this may have a given volume, but the point is that here this angle can change, so if that change the volume is different, right? But? In addition, there are some confirmation, I mean some angles that they probably to be like. This is almost zero. For instance, in this case we have a positive charge in here a positive charge in here and Alpha being equal to 0 is the probability of that is almost zero on. On the other hand, the probability of Alpha being like 180 degrees, the priority is for sure more than 90%. So all these kind of things must be taken into account when we design the functions that describe things like. Volume right?

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So. To achieve this, the first challenge is to. Sample different confirmations of the compounds to sample different angles and and then to measure all the internal energy for every confirmation. Once we know the internal energy, then we calculate several properties that are changing on our dynamic properties depending on the confirmation of the compounds. So we in this first stage we're only measuring these five properties.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
In addition, of course we measure the other classical properties which are planner like number of rotable bounds, number of rings, number of accepted regional projects.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Right? So what we can do is to use all these samples and this energy too. Estimate the probability density function and and this is done with Bushman distribution. Function. In combination with the rule of bias, you know conditional probability. I won't extend too much about that, but obviously you want to ask.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Please ask so with those tools and making some mathematical manipulations at the end of the day, what we get is something like this. For every compound we get the property, for instance volume and the frequency so the frequency is is driven by the energy that had that that information. So using some more mathematical manipulations we can smooth those functions using Gaussian additions. We remove noise from here. We normalized the range of values and some other things, so then we can compare and analyze different different functional information.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Coming from here. So the second challenge at this point is to translate these functions, which are represented fruit, and this is difficult to prove to me. Infinite function space we want to translate that into a set of orthogonal basis functions. So to achieve this point we have test several several approaches. The first one are based on principal component analysis. Also, we use the Chebyshev basis to be able to deal with that, and we also deal with with wavelet.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So why do we have translated don't previous function that I showed you into an orthogonal basis function? What we do is by doing the classical term Focalization says we use supervector machines to try to see if now we are able to make good or better predictions having in mind not only this constant information about compounds, but also the functional information. So we tested with. Obviously, several kernel functions know typical polynomial radial basis.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Cetera. And then we launched several experiments comparing what happened with the classical culture using only the constant descriptors. What happened using the constant descriptor plus the mean values of the functional descriptors and obviously constant descriptors. The mean functional of descriptors and all the full functions that describe the behavior of all the properties. So we did that in several scenarios, will until the experiments and. At the end we withdraw the can.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So well, the first technical conclusion is that the annual polynomial kernel is the best one that we have 95. The second conclusion is that. Experiments. Obviously experiments were all the functional information was taken into account. Draw to better results. And the those results were of 0.16 prediction error versus 0.21 that was obtained when we only use the mean of the functional descriptor.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So I know why I passed it quite fast through the results on the conclusions, but well, I just want to be sure to explain in a proper manner the problem. So thank you very much for your attention please. I'm open to questions.
