It is incrementally the developments until we were able to analyze PPI networks and then we give some recent works about networks as probability distribution. Chipper polytope this is important becausw the Bonnyman theorem says that every doubly stochastic matrix can be expressed as a convex combination. However, the. Maximum entropy this composition is not unique. What is important here? OK, this is the Taylor expansion of the heat kernel is good cause I had hit conservation. OK. For when I am close to 0, this is dominated by by the Laplacian. OK, so given a hit kernel for a given time and the coefficients. OK, so we did initial experiments. So OK, we we try to relate the the diffusion of dynamics with the computer, not a permanent because the permanent is consistent with the loss of perfect machines from zero. Yeah, I know, but the order is end 2523. Flow maximality occurs or happens at face decision point, as well as entropy maximality. Given a note expansion produces an extensive sequence of subgraphs until you reach the graph. I had to do that for every connected component of the network. Have the notion of use Bregman balls to capture all the profiles of the flow profiles of every history and to capture the variability. And these are this snapshot of what is the thermodynamic depth sandwich hit OK for each note for note one I have. OK, so when I going to apply to the analysis of PP eyes so I focus on is stinky necessary cause they are proteins involved in signal transduction and this I said before this is related. The Volvo period of course told to refine and make more complex satisfaction, but I had to quantify more. 5 minutes so I can say this qualitatively, but I have to measure in terms of complexity. So finally have this kind of network, so there are examples. So for instance, if rap information theoretic perspective you use the MDM principle in generative models. To control or to quantify the dynamics of a complex systems in ecosystem. Or the evolution of the function of proteins. A set of. So these are going to be shown that pay attention to irregularities beyond randomness itself. OK, so if we go to randomness complexity we will OK. One is the coordinate graph entropy and the current graph entropy is minimal contribution to the probability distribution associated to the vertices. And vertex baking polytope autograph so difficult to measure. So do you have the one human entropy, which is very easy to compute? Gorgeous difference in degree or related functions. Between connected vertices it can be expressed like the like quadratic form. As you used usually exploit the disease, let something so that like that and it in practice work very, very well. OK, you have another approach which is thermodynamic depth. When you're looking at your looking things that are more related with the process itself, the process of building the graph, the process of, or the notion of each node has for the complete. Is going to be very different from the history of another note, so good idea maybe to measure the variability of these histories. A few words is OK. We have information flow. So for our Protobuf complex complex network, impose constraints on the flow of information, for instance heat. So is there no constraints? Be hopefully talks are the comics call of the double stochastic matrices, so you know that. Why in the center of the polytope is there under the mattress, which is a matrix?