The same parts of our brain is activated as if we looked at a real human face. Did any study about what sentiment and so on, so I will tell you just a brief introduction how this opinion, mining and sentiment analysis work. OK, what does opinion, mining, mining or sentiment analysis is? The computational study of peoples opinions, sentiments, emotions and attitudes. There are least words associated with some scores about the sentiment, so there are plenty. One of the most center most famous and most used is the Santee Worknet, which assigns to each synset from word net three sentiments a score for her positive, neutral and negative award is so we have here. No, and we've tried to translate the dictionary but lost in translation. Usually it represents the sentiment of the whole message. And some studies show that the sentiment conveyed by emoticons is domain independent and also language independent. It's a data set of over 1.6 million tweets, manually annotated. So this which were collected from 2013 to 2015. Is it representative? Spooky appeared in three negative emoji, quits, 17 neutral tweets and 7540 tweets, 95 occurrences altogether. At the end we want to assign sentiment score. Zero is no sentiment. Gas filling with to estimate this discrete probability distribution, we don't use simple frequencies, but we use Laplace estimate. And to calculate the sentiment score, the sentiment score is actually the mean of the discrete probability distribution and with some math it turns out that you just subtract the probability of positive minus the probability of negative indicator. Start from the beginning, not from emerges, but from emoticons, so emoticons are facial expression composed from keyboard characters. Chrome comes from into English words. These are pictographs, so pictorial symbols of things, emotions, activities, divine events, sports, food, you name it. They are usually presented in a colorful form, even though they are also defined in as black and white characters. The sentiment score is black like this. So to see if these altogether merge and water sentiment lexicon is language independent, we created a separate emoji lexicon for each language. The Pearson Correlation Experiment, right collaboration, and what we found out that the correlations are relatively high and significant for all the languages except for Albania, which is listed plus. So then we look at the merger occurrence and sentiment. So we first look at the sentiment. We make two groups. The other question is annotator agreement. We showed human annotators, this tweets and they have to annotate positive, negative, neutral. So if there is an emoji into tweet, do this annotators agree any better? So from this account, conclude that the presence of emojis has a positive impact in the emotional perception of the tweets. Is where in the tweets do emojis appear? Is the end of the tweet. Oh our main focus was the applications in opinion mining and sentiment analysis. Most of the most frequently used emojis are positive, so as long as people put in or just inside, usually on the safe safe side, no. We are shows that emotionally loaded emojis tend to appear at the end of that week. So we're more just so much that Oxford Dictionaries named Face with tears of Joy is 2015 word of the year.