Feel free to interrupt me whenever because we have a lot of time. I'm working in research group on complex event processing in carlsruhe and complex event processing as you'll see is about real time streaming data. It is an occurrence within a particular system or domain, so this is a very very generic description, so that event processing will be able to deal with stock ticks. Someone saying something on Twitter, heart rate monitoring in your hospital. Event processing is a form of computing that operates on these events. An CP complex event processing is this enabling technology that supports that on the fly? T to be pulled out of this event processing in an implicit fashion has been done along time ago from discrete event simulation network development where you want to run intrusion detection to your ping monitoring. Pattern detection is the most notable function if you will is kind of the most interesting part of event processing, so the rough system overview looks like that you have event sources which provide you with streams of real time data on the fly, so you don't ask for this data, but it's being pushed to you like Twitter. And we actually don't want to react to single events, so we want to be really useful in this event processing step, which decouples senders from receivers. To get something useful out of these systems here, you can look at the decision making process perspective on event processing. Now why this tutorial real time is for many applications crucial today data is oftentimes on the move. And now we also like to talk about flowing data that we need to process on the fly. We want to process this data while it's moving and possibly be able to throw this data away to deal with large volumes very large volumes. Anschel, here's an old copy of the Gartner Hype Cycle that you probably know about. For example, the real time web growing, number of resources even on the web, move away from this traditional request response system where a website will just sit there and wait until you call it. Twitter has an API which pushes data and so on and so on. So RSS traditionally is again a request response paradigm, but these people changed it into a real push system. So there is supposed to be a great outlook for complex event processing. If anyone wants to form a company, the vendor market is very turbulent though, but application potential is there and mainly improving this real time awareness. Is essential for a lot that we're doing, and it's been around for quite awhile now. This is really old use cases if my luggage is not on board of my plane when it's about to start. I don't want to find this out later by posting a query, but I want to informed when this happens or when two friends of mine this is a social media application are sitting in the cafe close to me. And inform me immediately after it becomes very lightly that there will be a jam on my Rd, so even predicting future events is possible if you have learned and trained your system about histories, histories of events, you'll be able to predict with a certain likeliness of what events will follow us. So the grand challenge in event processing. This is from the research community, an event processing from their conference and grand challenges to identify a single broad challenge to impact society and to measure the progress of this community. 11 So the very high goals here are that they want distributed ownership and reach for this real time. You would like to share like on the web today in a real time push fashion so everything is organized in streams and sent as events and they want an adaptive nature of complex adaptive systems so that you can exchange these patterns and subscriptions at runtime. This fabric is supposed to be the highway of real time data and enabler for. Are from from detecting earthquakes by using people's gyro sensors in mobile phones to warning of schedule changes in daily commutes or airplanes as I talked about. There will be thousands millions of different sources of events, so it will be a problem of decentralized organization of finding these event sources and of dealing with the event load from across the globe and then doing meaningful processing on these. In a secure and anonymous way, so we need to think about the people and about lawmaking problems across geographic and administrative domains and in a timely way and utilizing the most appropriate channels of communication. With the Internet useful, but not the only way to connect. Data so the events coming in might be noisy from cheap sensors and cameras and actions, there's always a reaction to an event might be to take shelter, put infrastructure in safe mode like the Californian people who created this tutorial with us said that it's very important if you have an early warning for an earthquake just one minute before it is very useful to slow down trains and to open. Again noisy. So if I want to do this for the web. And I need this event pattern language which matches the event format. This sort of on the fly processing Twitter world record was 8800 tweets per second on the singer Beyoncé's pregnancy in when was that on August 2011? We don't want to put the tweets in a database and see at the end of the month what happened, but we want to be informed that something meaningful just happened. OK, again an event is something that happened or is being contemplated as happening and we want these as first class citizens in our in our system so that in event is a fundamental information unit which can be stored, queried, merged with other events processed. So an event is really an object which I can hand from one function to the next and from one system to the next. In many real life systems, this domain of occurrences that can possibly happen is so large and cannot be modeled at design time, so we model explicitly the known relationships. And RDF the W 3C standard comes in because it allows open world assumption modeling so that everybody can add new types and new subtypes to this large system. We've heard in John Paul's talk about the Dulcer top level Ontology, which defines Endurant and occurrent, where endurant is something that is always true or static fact and a current which is an event, so we can inherit from this data type and use this in our model. Where happy to use Link data for several purposes, one is to get static context for events so that additional information is being able to be retrieved. I'm working with a colleague from my FB from our Institute to create a paper on that on how to publish event streams as linked data where we tried to honor all these link data principles that you heard about yesterday. I talked a little about event type hierarchy you can see here that ontology reuse is being done. What is important here is that an event ontology taxonomy of types is used where average temperature event is inheriting from upper class of events, which gives us the timestamps for example and which can be specialized. But this event should be modeled over the last 10 minutes because if this event is again going into computation in another event pattern, I need to take care of that. So This is why these interval based events are useful way of fixing your notion of what's a sequence which two events are strictly in sequence and which are not. The query language would obviously fit the RDF data model and we want to query real time and historic events like also supported by this paper on the event Processing conference this year, and we want to support typical temporal operators because events are always about timestamps about happening when and. Event processing and semantic technologies can be combined in a meaningful way to deal with this high load of data and we'll talk about higher level concepts without going into too many details, but I'll have something on event processing sparkle which fits nicely with the talks that we had before yesterday and which will show you web application of streaming queries, how I can formulate these standing queries which will give me incremental results whenever there is new data? So this is where event processing sparkle comes in. By these temporal operators such as sequence or temporal overlap, which is called equals and time windows like a number of events inside range of 10 minutes. For example, this was first discussed in that paper, and we extend it to support more expressive events, which I'll go into detail and to use the useful functions from X path. Multitenancy, where several people are publishing their streams, and you don't necessarily want all streams to be public, so you have a Federated environment with distributed services, and you want to utilize resource is better. Unfortunately, cloud computing today, if you look at Hadoop and MapReduce is focused on these throughput oriented, data intensive computing, there's not much on time guarantees today. The last requirement is this event marketplace. So just as we have services, exchange and. These events are needed to do as input for services, and we want the events to be tradeable and we want to bring suppliers and consumers together so it would be nice if there would be a big search engine providing visibility to these distributed sources such as Google is the place to go for static web pages you need like a directory of event streams if you want to build a meaningful streaming application, so this is not there today like like a Yellow Pages for. We want to detect and predict these situations of interest, and this creates a responsive sense and sense and response system. If you buy a streaming engine, or if you use the open source S for engine, which is very nice for prototyping, but which is just a building block of this whole life cycle, is that the process is kind of missing and the engines are usually focused only on the event detection. So the event patterns should not be treated just as another data, but we should really capitalize on this knowledge that these events and event patterns are related. We are oftentimes only matching numbers and strings, so this can be more meaningful. So that I need streaming data, continuous updates and that it's important to have sort of an event management or processing system to deal with real time data processing, like a database management system is a very well understood thing today for 30 years of research and there is a roll of semantics. This is the cycle of an event processing system starting with modeling of these situations of interest. And there is semantic modeling. This is about the product based inference engine, so we're doing rule based complex event processing with on the fly reasoning. This is a bit of details on logic based event processing and we support sliding windows in this engine and aggregations to do maximum count to get heartbeat maximum as we talked about reasoning, overtime, space and contextual knowledge so I can group events by if they follow each other or not. For this, the end of the talk is, I'll give you an introduction to event processing. And then I'll talk more specifically about the role of semantic technology. For example, if you're the call center owner, you want to know how many people are connected to the call center, how many are waiting. Exchange and adapt all these aspects of the query like the time window and actually switch on and off complex event patterns and what this does in the background is this updates the detection phase of event processing, trying to switch on and off different patterns to create complex events or not. High throughput of events is also helpful, so thinking you have streams which are.