So of course when we go to see the East Pathology, we observe that they made this massive nip treating do 20 days starting after paralysis sunset. And also they prevent the transition definitively transition and the appearance of these afferent glial cells in culture conditions. To the motor, noon from from the spinal cord to the neuromuscular junctions. Never very narrow. Glial cells arising in the rat model. There are very few mast cells. Completely not only for my cell number, but also for the granulated mast cell number and also for what we call macros. There are two markers for two subtypes of Schwann cells. Of course, if you go to the sciatic nerve, you see almost the same picture, increased number of muscles during the symptomatic phase, large number of muscles that are Dick regulating large macrophage infiltration and everything is cleared by massive nip is improved. Yesterday we have a full session presented by Doctor Issues Maura about the clinical findings with city names. And this can be summarized in this slide, but in in summer in summer this study involving hundreds of patients showed that positive clinical findings are has been found in patients, and I will show that this this result are supported by preclinical data that we produce years before an in fact has been. Neurotoxic, cellular microenvironment, associated to rapid paralysis, probation in both CNS and PNS. They target microbial cells, macrophages, mast cells expresses the two receptors CCCCCCF, one unsecured receptor an. An I think that will be published if we're lucky enough. In the next few months, so the question remains here. So why post paralysis tyrosine kinase inhibition in LS? Although there are some other inflammatory disease and can be also treated with this, this drugs an as I told you yesterday in my presentation will be cancelled with this finding made in 2011. They express Ki 67, which is a proliferative marker as well as different. What is driving the paralysis in this model, and we observed that these cells were the ones. You establish primary culture from the spinal cord. An which is relevant is that these cells are the most toxic cells yet described it as toxicity for embryonic motor neurons in cell cultures, and this prompted us to study whether killing these cells could could risk you paralysis. This is high magnifications in the spinal cord. Six circuit receptor that is mostly driving the differentiation and proliferation of muscles as you see here having as agonist stem cell factor. Mainly having an anti neoplastic indication. But currently is in trials for LS, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis. One after paralysis answered you see there is a shift in increase survival and when you do the same starting seven days after paralysis onset which is already very advanced, you still obtain a significant protection.