I'm I'm falling from also front instead of high performance computing, so I was. So these are typical like properties of this kind of social online social media. So yeah, in from this. If you run a simulation 20 times, each time you get a number of people who has written message in the end. So of course in practice will not have Infinity number of nodes. Right, it's the same pic, right? US when you pick the largest nodes. You really won't affect the giant component size, or you won't affect how many people you can reach. You won't affect the position of of these two histograms. The information will always spread to a lot of people and it won't spread locally. So again we use only five signals, So what is the only difference thing here is just the network structure right? And all the rest remain largely the same. Is more interesting than the threshold required, so there is always chance. I've gotta pick. And also another point is I was talking about the first 10 nodes that spread it right. 300 million dollars an I mean, some research shows that BlackBerry Messenger, which is also kind of online social media. Yeah, and the most popular messages, which means the message be shared most number of times is 1/4 of a million. So this is the positive influence of social media compared to the previous one, so it's a promoting power of online social media. How many people we can influence on the network? So one way to define it you can see is defined as the expected number of people you can influence. An among 1234567 people that following him or her, three of them decided to re shared or shared shared message or in terms of Twitter, which means Twitter message. In the whole network, eight people have shared it from him, so his influence in this in this case is effectively 8. The. Yeah, in the end how many people have treated the message? Of course you can also define it instead of instead of a single person as a seat node. Despressed started to spread the message and also defined as a set of nodes like a set V of nodes.