So the general approach to designing algorithms that work for learning is like you have. The problem is easy, you just want to find a consistent classifier. If you can find that, then you're done in agnostic learning. In reliable learning you would. So if you could find some classifier like this then it would. This is sufficient for PAC learning, so you can now just solve the problem by linear programming. So I find a polynomial that says that PXIY is always positive and this technique actually gives some of the best known algorithms for PAC learning. It's also fine today, so the degree of the polynomial will control the running time of this and the sample complexity is related to the weight of this polynomial and I'll come back to this point, maybe in a bit. Is that this actually gives you agnostic learning algorithms, not just back learning algorithms that they showed that if you just do L1 regression once you have such polynomial approximations, then that will automatically give you. Distribution independent agnostic learning. And again, the point is that 1 sided approximate degree can be much lower than approximate degree and this notion was actually introduced fairly recently, just last year to prove lower bounds in complexity theory. What we show is there any class function after functions if that has positive 1 sided polynomial approximations of degree D, an weight W. So the weight of a polynomial is going to be defined as they want all the coefficients to be integers and the weight is just the sum of absolute values of the coefficients. And so then you can learn a positive reliably this class in time that send to the authority and the sample complexity is polynomial in NWN one over epsilon. And you can have an analogous result for negative reliable learning just by flipping the approximation. And so we look at the class of. It can be shown that the the degree the 1 sided approximation degree of this is square root of the weight. So the proof of this is just using Chebyshev polynomials that uses standard techniques, but we know that if it's just looking at approximate degree where we want the pointwise approximation, even the majority function requires degree that's linear in N. So what this shows is that the class of majorities can actually be done in positive, reliable, negatively and also fully reliable setting in time that's two to the order square root of N. So which is the best known agnostic learning algorithm which uses this point? I also want one of the things is a composition results if a class of functions can be has these positive 1 sided polynomial approximations of degree D, then if you look at disjunctions from this class it also has polynomial approximation of degree D and wait. What can be said about general half spaces. False positives can be much worse than false negatives as far as learning is concerned. Let's say if you're trying to detect failures in some electrical network or something. Maybe you can allow your classifier to say, don't know, and you want to go and do another test. But the question that we are interested in, what is the computational complexity of finding these kinds of classifiers so these last functions are almost never going to be convex? So before I talk about diagnostic learning framework, let me quickly go over the PAC Learning framework which was introduced by Les Valiant and I'll be quick here. And when we want the learning algorithm to succeed for all distributions in this talk, I'm going to look for algorithms that have to work for all distributions. But let's say we've picked some class F and we now we look at classifiers that of the following form. And this captures examples like spam classification, where you really don't want to make false positives. So in this paper what we showed was that if a class of functions is agnostically learnable, then it's also positive and negative, reliably learnable. Since that reliable learning is in some sense stop harder than agnostic learning, and in fact also gave some evidence that positive and negative reliable learning might be a bit easier.