Well, RDF is the prominent. The predominant language for publishing data in the linked open data clouds. So access control is crucial to ensure the selective exposure exposure of information to different classes of users when sensitive data is concerned. Now, so these are my concrete policies. There are concrete, the sorry, the abstract tokens to the concrete values true and false, and I can assign my inference operator to the logical conjunction. Now, in the case of changes, I just need for instance, if the operator Maps to logical disjunction, I just need to compute the value of the expression. What are the pros and pros and the cons of the abstracts access control models? Well, first of all, the same application we can experiment with different access control policies over the same data set. For instance, for a user I want to have a liberal policy, whereas I need to have a conservative conservative one for a different class of users. The same thing holds for different applications, since they can experiment with different concrete policies and for the same data. We are proposing a fine grained access control model for RDF data. You have classes you have subclass relations and from there you can you want to infer. And you knew data new knowledge. Declaring it as accessible or not accessible, and I will give you examples in the following to show what we are doing. So access control comes with annotations and the standard access control models actually associated concrete access label to a triple. When I have schema information that is represented in the form of the triple that the student is a subclass of person and this schema information is denied. When updates occur frequently, and this this is the case of. So the conclusion about annotation models is that they are easy to handle but are not amenable to changes. Because I have no idea, no knowledge of how the label or the triple came from, how I produce the label. So from the night it goes to allowed for instance. If a triple is deleted, modified or added to my data set. So in our work, we propose an abstract access control model that encodes how the label of an implied triple was computed. So this means so in our model also triples are assigned abstract tokens and not concrete values. So the triples initially are assigned labels to authorization queries. So in the left part of my left part in your right part of the figure you can see what we call authorizations, which are actually sparkle. How do we decide that in order to do that we need to have a concrete policy that is specified by a set of concrete tokens and the mapping between abstract to concrete tokens and a set of concrete operators that implement the abstract ones before I just had a symbol. To say what this what is the operation that implements this symbol, I also need the conflict resolution operator since I can have the same triple having different levels because it comes from assigned labels by different authorizations.