Are there interpretability is there because there's one information provided. Then we therefore we reach a relatively high level of completeness. So how enterprise is changing is that we have knowledge assets which is information, experience and skills. This is what we deal with, which there are people. What he has to do is he has to rely on his workers so the workers are technology savvy. They know their processes well, better than sometimes the management and therefore they use Wikipedia or video lectures and so on to tap into certain technologies. So CIO has to more rely or enable the knowledge workers and get the data and get the. So we basically deal with business process information system flexi services or services. So there is an intrinsic value of it and then there is an extrinsic value. FIR is the Research Institute for Industrial Management or Operations management. This is the time model by Andrew McAfee. Basically, the difference which I wanted to mention was that workflow is set of parallel activities triggered by events. We have active node Dom nodes and external nodes. For example, manufacturing engineers. Basically the aim behind it is support them to identify quickly, identify the experts and to bring them in front and try to support them. Then Dom nodes are basically are also important, But these are the decision makers or the paper pushers as well we call him, but this is more management role which doesn't bring to the core innovation of the company. Quite often they are very standardized, and that's how we deal with it. So and informal process our events and actions, we have system conventional system which are ERP CRM which support formal aspect and informal ones are not supported or said OK, we don't record them or there was no possibility for that. We have standard flow diagrams. Oh are standard processes formal? Once we have several form which is dynamic flow diagrams where we do most of the planning and events and actions where are still informal ones, but we have tools now to manage each one of them. We do not want. The CEO, the executive director of the Institute, is divided into 3 separate categories, Information Management, Service Management and production management. We have smart objects. ERP Innovation Lab where we are working with different ERP systems and integrating them. OK, now within the scope that I was working on, I considered six factors, which means that the skill which is required, the knowledge which requires frequency of execution and so on. If the task is more informal, you'll see that the knowledge required is quite high and here the skill is there which is not an innovative. They say, OK, this is our process and we managed with that, but if you look into a bit more detail because of the segregation, we know that there is 30% and 10%, so 30% of our in this case this is just a sample is the semi formal aspect. As an example, in informal one there is a cut off point. They started with another stream, so formal task. That's where there's a dip and submitting the proposal is a very standard process. So this is I notice the sketching. In this case, OK in value estimation we usually look into the quantitative things which are anything associated with money. But many times the qualitative aspects are left out in the active project. We looked into the satisfaction, adoption, innovation, rate, privacy, autonomy, privacy, not that much, but still that was considered factor. That visionary leaders often override the ideas of brilliant people. Changing now changing the culture by facilitating the use of use and adoption of technology. Very complicated size of the company. Different leadership styles. We look into average knowledge workers age and education level. Deadline driven workflow and teams. Adoption of current and future IT infrastructure. The rollout of incentive mechanisms, and planned ahead for revisions. Moderate and governance through management. Encourage users to tailor their functionality. Take account of domain and context of use. These are just some statistics and it straight into small sub best organizational incentive is a good running system. Best individual incentive that you can provide is again a good running system, so remove the bugs or be interactive about it. If you want to participate, we have the conference on concurrent Engineering or I concurrent enterprising bit extension of concurrent engineering in a way you have EMBA programs and then we have got scientific industrial forums. OK, now we move onto active, so you'll see that knowledge powered enterprise and knowledge activated enterprise, so these are the two phrases that we usually use because we are enriching. So basically we have a target group within what we call as enterprise, which is organizational structure that we look into will look into operational structures. So and what he has to work with are the business processes, ICT infrastructure, an enterprise knowledge structures and this is all the technologies that anymore that he deals with the aim behind it was to identify.