[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thanks for the introduction and welcome to being here for this talk about travel and entitled desperately searching for travel Office, formulate better queries with some help from Link data. My name is true. I'm a first year PhD student in the University, Paris. Albin and I do research for a company named Seepage and in this company we use Semantic web technologies to build digital marketing solutions for ecommerce websites. So this is a joint work with my boss. Milan Stankovic and my supervisor Philip Rollerblade.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
This is the outline of my talk. I will start by giving the background of this work, then the motivation. After that I will present the re one system. Then I will talk about how we did the evaluation and then I will conclude the talk.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So the E tourism field is today a very important field of equal mass. According to the report Google 2013 Traveler, about 80% of people do travel planning online.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And the search is the primary entry point to travel related relation in travel related information online, about 60% of travelers always start their travel booking and planning process with search.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So in today's travel websites we can find some different kind of search tools like the search form, the search slider and the traditional search bar.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
But travelers do not only use these search tools, they also use other search engines like Google, Yahoo and Bing.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
According to a study conducted by Expedia, Media Solution named the Travelers Path to purchase. So in this step in this study, there is a sample session. In this sample session, the user went to all these websites and some others and I cannot put every logo on my slide so we can see that this user went to different kinds of websites like travel websites, social media, websites, tourism, office, website, map website and hotel website flight website. Etc.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
The reason why this user went to so many different websites may be this because travelers are undecided people. About 68% of people start searching without having a clear travel destination in mind. They don't know where to go. They don't know what to search and how to search.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So during a lot of time travelers are conducting, are doing something that we can call inspirational search or average travelers spent 45 days and contact the 38 visits to travel websites before purchasing.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So travelers are really spending too much time doing a lot of browsing and searching. They gather information and do manual verifications on multiple websites there. So all the travel websites. There's no no efficient facility to support users in expressing their knees and helping them find what they want.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Our motivation is to develop an efficient search system to facilitate the travel offer. Finding task on travel websites. We would like to realize this by helping users formulate reach. An explicit search queries I will give you a concrete example so we would like to help users formulate queries like in France at the seaside where there is Art Museum and we want to. And given this query, we will find travel office which correspond to this search query.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
The presentation of the reward system will consist of five parts travel destination centered semantic data, graph data graph verbalization, travel offer, catalog, annotation query, auto completion. Search results for ranking.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Travel destinations are very important in travel office, but in April, in reality they're not always well described in the office presentations. Well, Fortunately link data can help. We construct it a travel destination centered semantic data graph gathering sources from DB pedia. Foursquare, Bing Maps, an world weather online.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
This is a sample of our semantic data graph. In the center is the resource DB pedia. Nice is the incentive system. Yes is the city of Nice and we can find some familiar properties from DB pedia like POWL country, DC term subject, DB, pedia, OWO location, our DFS label, etc. And we can find some new properties like has poi. Has time to Sept East coastal. Let me explain. Has polyamines has point of interest? We retrieved from the website of Foursquare from their API big amount of points of interest which are situated in our travel destinations. Anne has time to Sept means has temperature September. We retrieve this information from world Weather Online API. We downloaded all the average average average temperature of each month for every two for each level destination in our in our data graph. East Coast to mean has a Boolean value. If true if the value is true, it means that the city is at the seaside. If the value is false, it means that the city is not as a seaside. We if we retrieve this information from Bing Maps.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
After that we used a pattern based method to verbalize the property object, how couples of the tree pose in the data graph. Let's take a look at these transformation table. For example, DPW country Country becomes in plus countries label location, place becomes where it's located plus place label label label Value becomes in plus this value subject concept becomes concept label has time Sept value become where it is hard moderate code in September. For the moment we have some simple rules if the temperature is higher than 20 it is hard. Between 10 and 20 is moderate. Less than 10 is, code has polyploid become where this plus poise category is coastal value. If it is at the sea star, it is true. If it is true we will say at the seaside. If not we will put nothing.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So let's look at this example. The same example of the CTF needs. So after the verbalization process each travel destination, it's associated with a certain number of semantic tags written in the controlled language. So for for the city of needs, some semantic tags are in nice at the seaside where it's located music market Chagall. Where's Mark, where there is farmers market. Enough Ultimate Team in France where it is hard in September.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So in our company, our main our our clients are usually online travel agencies, so when they give us, uh, uh, so indeed. So they only. They usually have a travel catalog so when they give their travel catalog we will contact. We will conduct a notation task. We're in the travel catalog. Two things are considered and analyzed. The travel destinations and the URL of the if this offer. For the travel destinations, we will simply assign all the semantic tags that were generated previously to this author an for the URL we used a named entity extractor named Dan DeLeon. To extract DB pedia concepts and we will take this concepts label. So all the assigned semantic tags and the extracted DB Pedia concepts label constitute together all the indexes for each author.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Query auto completion in Google search versus Re one travel search engine. So in Google the query auto completion is usually based on how often past users have searched for a term, but in re one it is based on how a criterion is relevant to find office corresponding to it.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So we define a criterion as an attribute of an author, allowing direct a verification whether the author has it or not. So the indexes that are generated previously can be considered as criteria in our system, the criteria are ranked by the probability of finding an author with them at the beginning of the session. The users are suggested 8 criteria. Which are best ranked of each type?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
In this screenshot, our system is configured with our experiments. Cap travel catalog. So for this catalog the suggestions are in France, at the seaside capitals in Asia. In New Delhi Mount and why it is hot in August, where there's church waste located Center for science and environment.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
The prototype was implemented in Java and we used a JavaScript library, jQuery talking input and the interaction between the user and the system is controlled. The user can only type the criteria which are known by the system and the user has to validate a criterion before typing another one. There are two two different modes and our system. Reacts differently. The first emote is is active when the user is typing a criterion. So in this case the suggestions are calculated too. To the highest string similarity and the second mode is active when one or several criteria are validated and the user is idle. In this case, the system suggests additional criteria to be added to the current query. And the ranking of suggestions of the suggestions is performed in a way that maximizes their probability of performing a successful query, and that favors the diversity of the proposed criteria types.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
In this work we did not develop a particular search result ranking method because it was not the focus of our work and all. It is also because that or retrieve the results are of the same importance. I will give you example for the query in Slovenia. At the seaside there are only there are two criteria in Slovenia at the seaside, so normally all the found travel offers correspond to. These two queries due to carbon studies two criteria, so there are the same importance.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
For the valuation. We experiment data was a travel catalog of a French tour operator, and this catalog contains 956 office and it covers more than 150 countries. The baseline system that we compared to the Google Custom search already installed on this French tour operators website. So since the Google search is only performed in French on this website. We developed a French version of Re One. We so the vocabularies and patterns work were translated and adapted to French language. We did a user study with 34 participants aged from 23 to 35 who are used to do travel search on the web.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
In this evaluation, we focus on query auto completion mechanism. We used several metrics. We used average number of words per query. Why? Because our clients often told us about the limits that encounter with the short with the short search queries in terms of providing personalized an optimal user experience. But we are conscious that this metric. Is not sufficient for to have is not sufficient because there's two systems can suggest criteria in different forms with longer or shorter texts, and This is why we also used the average number of criteria per query, so the so the results of this metric should not be influenced by the form of the suggestions, but only by the capacity of the two system. Out of the two systems to suggest criteria that the user would actually consider adding to his query. In addition to these two metrics, we were also interested in the provenance of criteria. I apply this term. I mean, we would like we would like to know if the criteria the criteria were thought by the user they already had it or they typed in this criteria due to the the system intelligence. We establish A5 level provenance scale. I will only read two of them, so one it is a criterion that I already had in mind and it was not in the suggestions. So five it it is the IT is a criterion that I did not have in mind. Some suggestions inspired me and helped me find this suggestion this criterion.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
In this in the experiment, in the experiments travel catalog, the duration of the office is varied from one day to 71 days, so people may behave differently and use different search queries. Is our search criteria such queries 242522 short trips and long trips? And so we divide it our participants into two groups. For the first group, we gave them the task. Of searching for a short trip, which means from one to four days for the second group we gave them, we gave them the task of searching for a long trip, which means 5 days and more.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
This is how we proceeded. First we asked our participants to put themselves in the scenario of searching for the next travel, and then they turn to the two search systems to conduct the two search queries. Once in each system. So in also to avoid bias due to the due to the use due to the order of use of the two systems, we made half the half of the user search first everyone, then the baseline and the other half. Search first in your baseline system and then re one system so when the two search queries were done we asked them to split queries into criteria. So to realize this talk this task we informed them of the definition of the criterion and we showed them some examples to teach them how to split and when this when it is was done we asked them to evaluate. Each criterion, according to the five Level Provenance scale well, we are conscious that the task of splitting queries into criteria can be a source of subjectivity or source of error, and This is why we conducted our conditional process. We ask the three independent reviewers to verify each query. 2 criterias pleat and only the splits that two or three reviewers. Approved were taking into consideration into further measurements and this proved this process eliminated to split two search queries.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And these are the results of the first experiment. And we can see that on average the the queries conducted in rewan are 4464% longer and 25% richer than those conducted in the baseline system.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So therefore the provenance we can observe that there we one system has more criteria which correspond to options 345 which are criteria that are attributable to the system suggestion to the Systems Intelligence. Let's take a look at some some examples. So in each row in this table in each line, now there are the two queries conducted by the same participant on the left side is 3, one on the right side. This is the baseline system. So in re one this person typed church new art and baseline church. Well I forget something. This queries for in French. So we translate for the presentation we translated. I'm literally in English. Northern Europe North Cape Europe cross country skiing coroico cross country skiing France volcanic island portal. Noble hebra front and island of Malta.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
For the second experiment, we can, we can observe similar advantage. Queries conducted in Rewan are 62% longer and 29% richer.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
For the provenance it is, we re one always outperforms the baseline. Well, so let's also take a look at some examples so seafood culture, Salvador Deli, seafood, summer aware. It is a historical site summary is called historical Southeast Asia Wash washing mean City Southeast Asia Travel Track in New Zealand and in Linguistics Day.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Rewind system outperforms the baseline in both experiments or average queries conducted in rewind are 63.4% longer and 27% are richer and the T test proves the consistency of the positive impact. And reward system is stronger to suggest the criteria of added value with regards to users own ideas which end up being accepted and constituting the final queries.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
To conclude the talk, I will give you only one takeaway that is linked data can help end users formulate petal queries in the context of inspirational search like travel, search and say Badge Company is working hard to industrialize and optimize this this prototype and will? It will become a real product soon. So this is my talk. And since I am at the early age of my PhD. And every question every feedback feedback is very up now. I appreciate that. Thank you, thank you. So you want to feedback on your PhD? What's your PhD? My point is this, is this related to your PhD? Yes, it is related to my PhD in my PhD topic, a semantic web and personalization. So, and how do you see this related to your PhD? Well, it can be apart since now we have this travel search engine. We will. We will have query logs and we will analyze query logs to end up to better understand the user and to provide more personal personalize the services. I I do see some value for personalization, but somewhat related is is there a reason or a specific reason except for time that you prefer to stick to certain refind sentence? Is that a user can compose rather than trying to analyze the true question the user has for the constraints for finding the constraints? So you posted a set of predefined sentences which you may pose, right? Yes, which is actually kind of similar to me. It seems. Then me formulating a query in something like Google. I'll just be forced to learn what things Google understand, what keywords people use. Yes, that is what we did. What is the reason not to use truly analyze the sentence is that future work or is it something? Well, I read some papers in the literature and the systems which accept full natural language queries. Can usually cannot do the query auto completion. This is their problem. For which we, because in travel search. As I said before, the problem is that the user the user does not know how to search and what you search, and we want to help them. Is this what they're searching for inspiration? So we need to develop this auto query auto completion mechanism to help them formulate to help them find what they want. What are in their mind? This is why we made. This is why we made this choice. Can I follow up on this question so if you you're assuming so in your test, you're assuming that the user already have at least something in mind that they are searching for. I mean, did you give them some kind of advice what they should be looking for? Or just you set them down and told them? Think about you want to go on vacation? Now look for a destination I'm I'm not clear about what's the motivation of the user to search in this moment. You mean the in the experiment in the experiment? Or maybe in the system in general? What type of users are you expecting? What types of users are expected? I would well, I would be in front of the system. I typically have a destination in mind. I already know what kind of holiday I want to do, what kind of travel. So for me it would be. I could specify much more precise search terms, so if in your experiments you would need to tell the user what kind of input mindset he is right? I mean I mean you are experienced user, you know what to search, where to go, but it is not just the case of for everybody. So there are people who don't know what to search, and so this this system is designed for them. OK, and so when you did the experiments, the users that you used for the experiments, they just. Well, So what are we OK? We saw in the experiment what we told the due to the user the participant in that we told them to peak in their agenda date for their next travel and they do travel. They do queries for this date. This is how we did in the experiment, and those were the only constraints you told them. The rest they could choose. Yes. In the experiment it was the only constraint this this question might come in question is kind of deriving from the previous question because I I really well I I'm the type of user just just like described previously. So when gets to traveling, you're investing money into your I mean experience the experience that you're getting through traveling. So when you actually step up to the computer, well, usually I mean to the any information system. Well, as a traveler is a frequent traveler, you're quite familiar with what you will be, what experience you you'll be getting out of out of traveling, so you see my rationale. So have you have you measured? I mean, what amount of users would be like me having quite a particular idea of where I want to go, what I want to experience? And the type of you know moonlight users that are quite you know out there not knowing where they are going and what they want to experience experience, I mean whether they going to Alaska or to the equator, you see what I'm saying. Yes, I see, you see what we're saying, but what is the question? What is just and you measure? Did you split the audience and how many percent of the users belong to my type and how many percent of the users belong to your type? Well, we did not. What would even conduct this study or the motivation to build this system is based on the study of Google and Expedia. So they say that people people start how much percentage? As 60 will know, it's a big percentage of protective of people start without having a travel destination in mind. So what they say is that maybe you you know you already know where to go. Yeah, it is good, but there are other people who are not like you like me like yeah so maybe let me formulate the question then this way so if. So in the end you want to make money with this. With this, yes we are company. We want to make money when exactly so did you ask the question in the end like to the user after using the system? Have you been inspired to actually book? A travel. That did the information that you get through the system, inspire you to really buy whatever flight. Yes, this is what we want to measure by the provenance scale. Actually wanted to know if well I have the paper here. In case because I cannot have them in mind. And. Well, I just read the 1st and 2nd and 5th. In the scale, so the other three, if we still have time, yes, so two is the criterion that we already had in mind, and it was also in the suggestions. Three. It is a criterion that I did not have in mind, though it was in the suggestions into. It's relevant, but I could have thought about it, for it is a criterion that I did not have in mind. It was in the suggestions into it is relevant. It is surprising and I could not have thought about it. Yeah, look at that look clear to me. If this makes people really buy a travel in the end like well, I. I mean if she wants to measure this, we should conduct a real AB test and we will do this for sure and this is we are now working on this commercial version so we will sell to customers and we will of course contact AP test and. Yeah, to prove that our system works with our system makes people too to find travel office and buy them OK. Can you enable slicing back if you look at the table? So my question is, it's quite strange you feel like if I look to the right to the baseline system, I see the only one word like Europe and then on the other side I see more rich. You know query. So it's really strange if I, if I want to go to some North Europe, some some other stuff I wouldn't, you know, give just a Europe keyword to the baseline system. I would never do that. I can answer a question well. The auto current auto query completion or query auto completion make this mechanism is different in the two systems. So in Google when Google Custom Search installed on the website. If the person starts by typing something that the system doesn't know well, the suggestion stops. And our system since there is this constraint, the person has to has to. We suggest we we suggest all the time. So yeah. I think there is a possibility that after the baseline system user came to your system and changed his mind because it happens OK and last question, did you try to measure how much time it took to find you know an offer through baseline system and through your system how much time much time it took for user to find the travel offer? From we need to we need to measure this in in a real AP testing. I'd like to support the isn't so there's so many questions about motivation, I'd like to support it because I'm both the kind of user that you guys are like when I'm going to a conference. Of course I know where to go. But I'm also the other type of user, like my wife and I we we one year they all. The only criterion that we had was that we wanted to be within roughly the same time zone so that we. Don't waste as much time an 1 one year. We ended up at Madagascar the other year. We ended up at small bar in the polar regions so so so it's and it's exactly what you're talking about. This really speaks to me because I had roughly the same of this. It's it's about. It's about like you want a romantic getaway for the weekend, so, but what does that mean? Well, current websites force you to choose a place first. You don't care. You want a romantic getaway for the weekend. It's totally irrelevant. Just give me some choices right? And so I'm I'm seeing you revolutionizing travel air. Really thank you for supporting me, yeah?
