The next three hours will be devoted to provide you an introductive. An introduction to this research field are in the battery condition, but also in the machine learning area, which is cooler, but he's only one of the names that people gave to this field, multiple classifier systems, and just before showing you the outline. Today we are going to speak of pattern matching, but pattern matching or when you have multiple data classes. I'm speaking about the performance on the test set, so if you combine by averaging you are you have a theoretical guarantee that. The performance is that you will obtain by combination heart higher than the performances of the worst classifier in then sample, so you are sure that you are going back out. Another motivation for the user of multiple classifier system is what I call the best case motivation, not the worst, a motivation, and that it's it's incredible. Combining a set of classifier can really goes better than the back, then the best individual classifier in assemble this is possible in some good cases when the classifier make different arrows. We have heard theoretical proof that this happens how only for special cases there are only special cases for which we can guarantee that combination really can outperform the best classifier. But under Sam spatial particular assumption, which unfortunately hard difficult to be satisfied in real application or I will speak in more detail about this later. Of eight classifier 2 speech classifier and six fish face classifiers which are based on different techniques. You cannot check that. Supporting the use of multiple classifier combination is what dominates which called the computational motivation. We know that there are many classification algorithm which are equipped with learning algorithm to train the classifier which she uses some optimization techniques. In this case, we know that. It can be very difficult to. Another motivation is what I personally called the Curse of pattern classifier design is probably a problem that you you you know well. Is what is a multiple classifier system the more straightforward detacher is shown in this slide, you have a set of classifier. And in fact this architecture which is cooler the parallel architecture because you are combining in the classifier are working in parallel and you combine them in parallel is the most user. Basic concept and a little bit of terminology. This can be characterized by that I the kind of architecture, also call it topology, the architecture, Apollo architecture or other kind of architecture, the classifier ensemble, which means the type and number of. The classifiers which that you are combining usually in the in this field people speak how Bayes classifier and use the word Bayes to to indicate the single classifier the individual member of the assembled. The categorization should be done in terms of the type of architecture that is used. The parallel architecture is the. We have a set of classifier which works in parallel and you combine the output or outputs of your classifier using a certain combination function a certain fuser. This is a serial combination mechanism. If the classifier is able to make a decision in a reliable way with a high confidence value. The base classifier user, the higher off then of the same type. For example, an example of decision trees or an example of multilayer perceptron neural network that is not. Which are different classifier using completely different computational mechanism? Which is the reason. The fuser there are two main classes of user user which are based on so-called integration function, which means that for each pattern hold the classifier contribute to the final decision. There is another type of combination function which are colored selection function. Mechanism for combination. A tutorial on multiple classifier systems. By researcher working in this in this area, there are really many other names which has been used more or less to to identify this. Just a quick remark so far. There are searching this field as focused on parallel architectures. Architecture most likely architecture, but it is as the state of the art you. You can find a lot of works on parallel architecture an anyway and the following we will focus mainly on parallel architecture simply because they are. It's printed pretty wing tweet if that combining classifier is useful only if the Bayes classifier. Are not the same. How should a diverse our classifier in order to be combined effectively? Suppose that you are using a majority voting combination scheme in which sense your classifier should be diverse, so should should do different errors. But the type of diversity error that you need is not a trivial problem, and it depends strictly on the type of combination function that you use. Amanda Sharkey try to categorize different type of hero diversity which can be exhibited by an example of classifier, and it's easy to see that depending on the type level, one diversity Level 2, Level 3 or level 4 level one, no more than one classifier is wrong for each pattern. The large majority of your classifier is always correct. Attenta classifier the same pattern correctly will exhibit values of this measure Q close to one and those which make different errors on different patterns will have negative value of Q, and it's better to have negative value because means that your classifiers are making hand correlated error. How are the diversity measures related to the accuracy of the assembled? High degree of diversity. You can focus about the design of a single classifier and the design of multiple classifier system. In a single classifier, you can model the design interest Apple, the selection of the feature feature design the classifier design, the choice, the model selection, what what is called the model, and then performance evaluation. So the design of the multiple classifier system required 2 main phases. The design the creation of the classifier and sample and the design of the future mechanism of the future. Multiple classifier systems are also called assemble, learning and so on and so forth. Except for the case where you have a perfect knowledge of the data distribution, you know exactly which is the data distribution of your data classes and so, for example, you know you are lucky and you know that are Goshen distribution and so you can use the proper and and so the optimal classifier in all the other cases there is also a famous theorem called the Free Lunch theorem which claims and in some sense. Approach used for designing a pattern classification algorithm that probably, you know is kolad iCal. Other people use the name cross validation. You cannot select the optimal theoretically optimal classifier you user. A set of data training set you train different classification or different version of a classification algorithm using your training data. Ann classifier and on the basis of the performance evaluation you decide you select and decide that the best classifier for your task is the class classifier which exhibit the minimum error rate of the. You are not able to select the best classifier for your test data. Generalization error and digitalization Arrow doesn't allow you to identify the best classifier. You could select the worst classifier. Depending on the training set that you use, often you are not able to identify which is the best face recognition algorithm between 2. You have Holly Harper into an operant performance evaluation which doesn't allow you to identify which is the best face recognition algorithm, and this is a probable well known and in fact in the Little Church in the face recognition later charge, people say that, well, it's not clear which is the best face recognition agony between PCA and LDA at it depends on the data in your hands. Motivation that I like to call the worst case motivation. It's it's pretty intuitive, but that you can avoid the selection of the worst classifier if you don't use just one. But if you combine. The performances of your classifier on a small set of training data. In this case, it's obvious that if your classifier on the training data exhibit just the same accuracy, you don't have any chance to select the best. Say a mental experiment again, thanking experiment is just a claim which was done by Tom DC in 2000 and is the motivation that I called the worst case motivation for the use of multiple classifier to avoid the selection of the worst classifier. But depending on the training set that you use too. The worst face recognition algorithm if you combine the two classifier so you don't select the method which appear the best, but you combine the two method. Let me be clear, you avoid this selection of the worst, but you don't have any guarantee that the combination will provide performances which are better than there.