So we're going to be based like many other methods based on face detection. If the face projects near the poles. Vector, So what we're doing is that we sent to rotate the sphere in place so that the face will project always on the equator of the sphere, and therefore the spherical rotations are going to be minimized. We created the data set annotated with ground truth. This is a mannequin's head rotating on a tripod with marked rotational grading so that we know exactly where the had occurred and we sampled the hemisphere of poses. Our estimations with ground truth is that we have another juror of about 3 degrees. We improve state of the art accuracy about 8 to 10 degrees depending on the method. And we also find out by doing a detailed error analysis that you can find in the paper that the accuracy of the method gracefully degrades with lack of coverage. Mainly focused in single view approaches, where the subject is imaged in a relatively high resolution so you can track rigid formation of landmarks. About five that use multiple cameras and what they do is that they basically perform a single view pose estimation in each image, and in its view, and then they fuse the results, attempting for a higher accuracy. Basically we want to study and apply robust tracking framework and see which is the most appropriate framework for our case to do tracking and have a prediction. So in a nutshell, what we're going to do is that we're going to use the visual Hull of the subject to assist face detection. We are going to use a hypothetical sphere around the head where we are going to unfold the texture of the head on this fear, and we're going to perform face detection in this spherical image. Very well, but what we're doing is that for each view we use as Ed buffer in order to compute visibility and reason which triangle of the visual Hull is visible to which camera or cameras. In order to do this, we are using a 3D variant of the mean shift algorithm. This operation basically by using the location estimate of the head in the premium in the previous frame and for the 1st frame. We have this spherical Cornell around the head and we project it to all images. What we have now is a sphere around the head. In this image we can find posts of the whole head becausw the center of the face. The faces occurs frontali in this image is we are OK by just using a generic plane frontal face detector. So we evaluate all poses and get of course multiple detections we get sometimes spurious detections, but there are very few of the main corpus of detections is clustered around the true face. We find the centroid.