Where does the data come from? So we're going to take the N agents and cluster them into K clusters, where K is much smaller than N and the assumptions that our approximation makes our that agents in the same cluster receive the same pay offs when they play the same strategies. Agents in the same cluster have the same influences on other agents, and the payoff that an agent in the cluster gets depends only on the proportion of agents in each cluster playing in each strategy. We have one equation for every cluster and every pure strategy which specifies the payoff that an agent in that cluster receives. And it depends on the number of agents in each cluster, or the proportion of agents in each cluster. Playing left that is multiplied by the proportion of agents in cluster A who play left times the proportion of agents in cluster B who play left. In particular, let's assume we were given a clustering. Then each agents payoff in around that we observe gives us festival of the cluster of the agent. The strategy that the agent played, the proportion of agents in each cluster playing in each strategy, and the payoff that that agent received. Up to now, I've assumed the clustering was given, but in fact we don't assume that the clusters are known in advance. We learn the clusters from data and we use a very simple approach. We use K means clustering, in which the features are the average pay offs that the agents receive for different strategies. One approach that has been used in EU AI community and elsewhere is to assume that there is some underlying structure to the game that makes the representation and solution of the game tractable. An example of this approach is graphical games. We estimate the payoff of that game using the regression equations. We solve that game to obtain a Nash equilibrium, and we instruct all agents in that in a cluster to play that clusters equally. So we're going to tell all the agents in the cluster to play left, but it may be the case that if all the agents are playing left, then a particular agent want to play right. For example, if all the drinks vendors are told to go to one location in the stadium, then a lemonade vendor might say I want to go to a different location, so. We say that the representation is not individually responsive, meaning it doesn't respond to the interests of India. So what we do instead is we construct a 2K player game where every player where every cluster is represented by two identical twin players. They have symmetric payoff functions, and they have the same. There are various ways to interpret these Twins from the point of view of 1 twin, let's say CC itself represents a single agent in the cluster C, Whereas its twin C prime represents cluster see in aggregate. See primed itself represents a single agent in cluster C, whereas it's Twins see represents the clustering aggregate and from the view of a player corresponding to a different cluster CNC prime between them Rep. Profile a plays left a prime, plays right, B plays left and be prime plays. So the payoff to Player B is the payoff to an agent in cluster before playing left when cluster B is a whole plays left and half of cluster A plays left and the other half plays right. We don't assume that the game itself has structure. The approximation does have structure and hopefully our approximation will capture enough of the detail of the actual game that the strategies that we obtained from the approximation would be good strategies for the actual game and the other thing we do is since the game itself is too large to represent, we don't have access to the full representation of the game. Now when we assign the strategies of Twins to corresponding clusters, what we want is Nash equilibrium of the Twins game in which the twin players are playing identical mixed strategies and we call such equilibrium twin symmetric Nash equilibrium there Gary. This is because, in a Nash equilibrium of the Twins game, player C is playing the best response to the other players, including its twin C prime by construction of the Twins game, the payoff that see gets is the payoff to an individual agent in cluster. C prime does. See prime. We assign strategies to agents. We have them play a number of rounds, and then we compute the average regret of the agents, the regret of an agent is how much better the agent could have done if it had chosen optimally up your strategy and stuck to it. We compared our 2K player Twins game. We also looked at a model free approach in which an agent simply chooses a strategy that would have maximized this rewards in the past. After and the results for the vendor game. And we found similar results to this graph under a variety of different conditions, and one of the things we observed is that our learning actually works quite well even with a small number of observations. And also we found that our method scales up well to many agents. In this domain there is a number N of agents who have to decide whether or not to go to a bar. The bar has a certain capacity and if the bar is not full, agents prefer to go to the bar. If the bar is full, agents prefer to stay home. Our method produces only symmetric Nash equilibrium. Two clusters is a direct comparison because that also requires solving the two player game. And what we found is the following when the bar capacity is an exact multiple of the cluster size then. The idea behind our approximation is simple. In many games we have situations where different agents have what we call a similar strategic view of the game. We presented a method that learns an approximate representation of a many players gain from data of play of the game. Our method works by clustering the agents into K clusters and then estimating the payoff spy linear regression. There are also individual vendors who are further differentiated. Vendors and these relationships hold in a general way across categories, but there is variation between individual vendors within categories. From that clustered representation, we construct what we call the Twins game. We assume that every agent has the same set of pure strategies and every agent has a payoff function that Maps strategy profiles of all the agents to utility's for that agent.