Use a variance estimation in the Northland problem. It is when you are at time T it is just a number of times you have drawn ARM K. So you use the bound. Non empty more arms only at most UK times where UK is the smallest integer satisfying this inequality. Then we have typically the same kind of bound. Here you have instead, so the expected regret, which is which could be much smaller than one. So the main drawback of this policy is that that you need to know the number of plays. Well, you have a standard trick, which is the doubling trick to come over this program. You assume that you are in front of the machine which have many arms and at each time step you have to draw an arm and disarm will provide you a reward and your goal is just to maximize your competitive rewards reward. And the key assumptions. Through its distribution through its reward distribution. Before we have this bitter S which was just depending on the number of plays of ARM K, so it was independent of the time at which you were the time T. And here you put instead something which so your confidence level. So brief view of the proof. OK, so to conclude what we propose, its first UCB algorithm which satisfies with high probability that with high probability, the secretive regret after N places is bounded by some constant which has the nice property to be independent from N, and we prove a logarithmic bound and the expected regret of a variant of UCB tune that takes into account variance estimates. So first the number of arms arms will be capital K. So and X Katie is not the reward of RK at time T. It is the reward of RMK when drone for that if time. And well, since we have assumed that the rewards are bounded, you without loss of generality, you can say that the bound to zero and one. And the distribution of the reward of MK is characterized by its expectation. OK. Deltacare is expected regret of K, so it is the difference between the optimal. Is there empirical variance is noted the key KT and policy is just a way of choosing the next arm. And then I did not I see the the unplayed by the policy at time T an maybe an important notation is this one TKT which is the number of times K is chosen by the policy during the first place. Well, could we stay a long time drawing wrong?