The active entity of the of the scenario. For example, sending an invoice, sending a purchase order. And we also have some complimentary. In addition, we developed the methodology so that these are stepwise approach that starts from terminological annotation. So first we try it with into Fi correspondence between just terms from the ontology and the the schema of the document. And then we will use the structure of the of the resources of the ontology and the schema to build more complex expression. OK, this is an example of our Permian logical annotation. A schema document that we want to annotate and it is the scheme of the reference ontology in the terminology notation we we discovered completely the structure, so we missed computer structure and we can think about the the. This scheme out the document, we just consider the terms that appear in it, so we discard the structure and the objective is 225 for each term from the from the document, a set of terms from the ontology that best characterize it. And so why be cause the semantic annotation is most declarative specification, while we need some really operational and for this reason we build transformation transformation rules. They re concession platform is based on the Gina to suite that is an open source reasoning platform built by the HP Lab there also so the rules are written in accordance with this. Guided by the document schema, the semantic annotation that is has been done previously. Then the reference ontology and then a set of root templates, for example that are able to solve the. Sleep template and so on. And then the two this payload, the forward transformation rules of a will be applied and then we will get an ontology, represent intermediate ontology representation of the document, and then we'll apply the backward transformation of the of the application of the destination to this intermediate representation in order to get the final result. In the format of the B. Ability, essentially we would like to address some weakness of this platform that are mainly regards the fact that both the semantic annotation and building on transformation rules are manual activities. The forward and backward transformation when we want to transfer information from one to another. For the semantic declarative mapping discovery, as I said before, so the objective is to support in a semi automatic way the the the semantic annotation and we organize. We will organize it in three incremental steps according to the. So the news is the fact that now we want to achieve these results in an automatic way. Service the second sentence is the generation of semantic operational mapping. So as a support for the automatic support for the definition of transformation roots and so the idea is to pass from the declarative to the operational mapping. The objective is to fuse, fuse the senders forward and receivers backward real rules in order to improve the actual document exchange. Because the. And this is a final picture representing the organization of the surface is so starting from the document schemata reference ontology by using a sterner resources like word and mismatched patterns, we want to achieve the declarative mapping discovery service and then the generation of operational mapping. So the transformation rules the Fusion of the afterwards. And finally the generation of executable. Essentially, the objective of this knowledge, interpreting services to balance and harmonize the. And of course ontologies to modeling what we called the enterprise semantic profile. That means to characterize the. So finally the idea is to have an ontology that describes competency and skills of the cluster and to describe each part of the partners of the of the cluster in term in terms of the of the reference ontology. The needs of the needs of the of the of the cluster and to this end we developed two set of two classes of service. So the SSS semantic supporting a service will be necessary for the for the 2nd. So essentially, a first important step is that we would like to achieve a unified method to model enterprise capabilities. And the idea is to. That means to extract the computing skills from the. For example different terminology, different that, again, station different data structure for example. The fact to reason about this enterprise semantic profile, so to compare the profiles of two or more enterprises you know and also compare also the semantic provider or single enterprise against the profile of the entire cluster. In order to identify gaps and overlapping among. For this reason, as I said before, we want to develop this two classes, sub services, their semantic supporting service that are divided into mass ontology building service. Let's say several several path and also we need in order to build an ontology that is able to cover the entire class that we need. So the service that will allow us to be the semantic profile of each enterprise within the cluster and then the third supporting services will be the one that we allow us to compare the profiles. And it will be the enterprise semantic matchmaking. So for the mass ontology building we would like to start from the set of documents. From the path are within the collaborative network, so to extract the. So trying to extract from these documents the terms that represent the competing skills software. Each single enterprise and then. Once we have the target ontology, so they'd be alone teologi from the of the collaborative network Dbas to characterize the the semantic enterprise. To map the ontology of the single enterprise against don't charge of the entire of the entire cluster, and the result will be. Of different enterprises, that is to have a semantic matchmaking service able to compare this profiles and then able to support the knowledge internally service that we that we saw before. Packages and they are about reconciliation of business documents for allowing documents change between enter a genius software applications and the other is about the management of enterprise computing skills for their motivation of collaborative networks. The problem is that there is a geometric growth explosion in terms of the number of players, because for each player an. The other problem is also if someone of these applications changed his internal data structure organization so all the other. So definition of a semantic annotation plus the definition of transformation. Rules, then we will see later better this things. Into the application specific format, and this is the. Orange boxes are the components that we developed so the other Scientology management system for managing the reference ontology. Then the semantic annotation tool for performing the first step step up the mapping and then the Argos tool for the second step of the mapping. We addressed in the in that face was identification of some semantic mismatch patterns. Essentially, the situation that we were able to solve, and essentially we divided them into different classes so that we identified as lossless mismatches and the loss seems matches the first one as our categories of problems of mismatches that. OK, in order to describe the in a detailed way more detailed way that the approach that will be at the base of the development of the innovative services in coin, we will refer to any procurement scenario that is inspired by. The buyer sends a request for quotation that is processed by the supplier. There will be a problem in the communicating the content of the purchase of the of the order from the buyer to the supplier, and so this is the scenario sensor that we are going to address in this presentation.