The problem of bursae taxine is to monitor occurrences of topics in streams and to identify period of elevated occurrences of events. No as birds. To identify when our topic becomes hard and then to identify emerging research aerials or change our focus so birth detection is critical for resource allocation and grant investment from funding agencies, research labs, institutions and corporations. Once we have the physical notions, we can model our birds in terms of increasing momentum. If weighted by math, then the derivative of momentum is the same as force. If not weighted by math, then the derivative of momentum is the same as acceleration. So in stock market analogy, the trends for the terms in biomedical publication can be visualized using charts that are highly reminiscent of the stock market and position can be considered like stock price. Anyway, we have, yeah, may exponential moving average, which you've defined. We also have MFI D. The movie average convert convergence and Divergent, which is defined as the differences between two MA and this is an estimate of the derivative of X, which is a position. According to the definition of velocity. Remember, velocity is the derivative of position. So it is an estimate of the second derivative of XT the position, so it is an estimate of acceleration in stock market analysis. Also, msad MFT histogram DMA with parameters 12:26 and 9:00. With positive with generation and we also we just to show that ethnicity histogram value is an estimate of acceleration. So we define birth. Is time interval over which the MSIT histogram value is positive. So all the citations in Pub, Med and Medline are labeled already or annotated with this match topics or terms by experts. We aggregate term frequency counts over annual time window from 20,000,000 biomedical publications citations and our analysis is again an annual number of publications. Let's first to say some examples of birth or elevated occurrences of topics. Into history know when were started in year 1963 and added in 1975, which is showing this time window. Again, according to history from the start of the Human Genome Project in 1992, the cloning of Dolly. There are several well known person models. I'm not going to details for them, but generally speaking we have John Kleinberg's model. We also have such as Model 2003 KDD. We observed that client works model focuses on identification of birds in a stream of mixed topics, where is assumed term independence. Have higher rates than the children terms, so the client breaks model might be biased towards the parent terms. Wells observed at Columbus model can be more reluctant to claim the start of a burst because the cost is associated with the burst state transition and his model can be more reluctant to terminate our birth as long as the frequency of the topic is relatively high compared with the frequencies of other topics in the stream. Want to compare Kleinberg burst interval and our burst intervals on the paper titles from the database, conferences, Sigma and well DB. We also want anyway you valuate the fact of birth detection with different MFD histogram parameters. So again, we do the experiment with paper titles from database conferences, Sigma and well DB and we can see that with larger parameters or the burst intervals reported is actually longer. It may be used to forecast on coming events and it takes into thematic links. The hierarchy between topics that are missed by single stream analysis. We show that our topic dynamic model represents an alternative for detecting and analyzing birth. Also, we show that the model works well for tracking topic verse of match terms in the biomedical literature. We're just trying to say that our model actually view the burst detection problem from completing new angle and it has the following advantages. We are back. This is because the terms in pub Med are arranged in a hierarchy which I'm going to show you later. Existing burst models assume term independence. For example, the currents of a child term might contribute to the occurrence of a parent term, and we usually accumulate the currencies of the terms. And also the definition of birth distress or intensity in existing burst models are relatively back in Kleinburg model burst strength. If defined as a state of the infinite automata and burst in the same state, have the same stress. And there are some other limitations like the memory lists, adoption occurs action Cambridge model is actually not clearly true with pub Med assets and also biomedical publications are released in batches. We use kinetic concepts from physics like mass and position. To derive other concepts like velocity, momentum, acceleration, force, hopefully you guys are still remember all these concepts and we will burst as intervals of increasing momentum. First, we have position which is to model linearly order, measure or intensity of a topic at time T. Examples include the number of articles containing the topic, number of pages, or a number of current accessories or downloads.