[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon I'm Dan. From Department of Computer Science at UCLA and today I'm going to talk about the dynamic topic dynamics model that were proposed for the problem of birth detection in streams of topics.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Some background first. The problem of bursae taxine is to monitor occurrences of topics in streams and to identify period of elevated occurrences of events. No as birds. Burst detection is very useful. To identify when our topic becomes hard and then to identify emerging research aerials or change our focus so birth detection is critical for resource allocation and grant investment from funding agencies, research labs, institutions and corporations. The challenge that we want to solve is we want to identify births for pub, Med, Medline, indexed biomedical literature abstracts. And if you are not familiar with PAMA, how many the database containing 20,000,000 biomedical publications citations?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Let's first to say some examples of birth or elevated occurrences of topics. This graph shows you the car. I have a pointer that I bought from the Dollar store. And it works great. This graph shows field account or the frequency of these topics from year 1982 to 2002 an are we able to observe birth or elevated occurrences of these topics? Probably yes. For example, this one. A sharp increase might be outburst. This might be also be outburst and also some other lots of other candidates. Then how about this one is this. Elevated enough or fast enough as a burst, maybe not. And how about the whole thing? Here we see a sharp increase and drop another sharp increase. If the whole thing outburst or there are two birds. And even for this obvious burst when it starts with the end. And what is the strength of this burst? To answer all these questions, we have to define a quantitative model to characterize all these characteristics. An it's not an easy problem.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
There are several well known person models. I'm not going to details for them, but generally speaking we have John Kleinberg's model. They have two papers published both in KDD and his model, basically trying to model the birth with an infinite state automata. We also have such as Model 2003 KDD. Which define birth as we like hierarchies of fixed along time intervals.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
This existing models have their own limitations for birth detection in the pub Med data set. This is because the terms in pub Med are arranged in a hierarchy which I'm going to show you later. Existing burst models assume term independence. However you know hierarchy, the terms are not independent. There are often correlated. For example, the currents of a child term might contribute to the occurrence of a parent term, and we usually accumulate the currencies of the terms. In the hierarchy, therefore, the the parent terms and the child in terms that are actually correlated, they are not independent.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And also the definition of birth distress or intensity in existing burst models are relatively back in Kleinburg model burst strength. If defined as a state of the infinite automata and burst in the same state, have the same stress. However, we know the number of states, usually small and the states can be only integers. That means a burst strength. If it can be only discrete can be only integers.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And there are some other limitations like the memory lists, adoption occurs action Cambridge model is actually not clearly true with pub Med assets and also biomedical publications are released in batches. The timing tool between those batches are fixed, which is also different from the adoption kleinberg's model and clamber constructors model. Computationally expensive because they involve optimization process is and there are more limitations. Actually, we discussed all these limitations in detail in our paper, so you can refer to our paper for the detail.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
To address all the above limitations, we desire topic dynamics model, where we view the problem of burst detection from a completely new angle. We use kinetic concepts from physics like mass and position. To derive other concepts like velocity, momentum, acceleration, force, hopefully you guys are still remember all these concepts and we will burst as intervals of increasing momentum.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Let's look at some useful measures of a topic. First, we have position which is to model linearly order, measure or intensity of a topic at time T. Examples include the number of articles containing the topic, number of pages, or a number of current accessories or downloads. We also have math, which is the aggregate weight or importance of a topic at time T. Examples include the number of citations, Journal, impact Factors and relevance measures.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Once we defined mass and position, we are able to derive other concepts according to the definition definition in physics. For example, the velocity is defined as a derivative of position and momentum is the product of mass and velocity. Acceleration is the 2nd derivative of position and force is productive mass and acceleration. So just the same measure definition in physics.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Once we have the physical notions, we can model our birds in terms of increasing momentum. Alternative is speaking the derivative of momentum needs to be positive. Take a look at the definition again for momentum acceleration force. If we take derivative of momentum and if we assume mass is constant then. If. If weighted by math, then the derivative of momentum is the same as force. If not weighted by math, then the derivative of momentum is the same as acceleration. Because we want the derivative of momentum to be positive. That means we want positive force or positive acceleration according to whether it is weighted by mass or not.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Wait next one to estimate those we want to ask. Basically estimate these values and then we apply the stock market analogy. Why want to do this? Because there are set of well developed theories to estimate such kind of parameters or such kind of variables. So in stock market analogy, the trends for the terms in biomedical publication can be visualized using charts that are highly reminiscent of the stock market and position can be considered like stock price. Mass can be considered like trading volume. So your model we consider we consider mass as one for all terms, namely the currencies of all terms are equally important and we consider position at the frequency of a mesh term in our publications for this specific here T you will see will see the definition of match terms later on, which is all the terms in pub Med data set.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So once we have this, the stock market analogy, we are able to apply a whole set of trend analysis indicators to estimate all the previous variables. I'm not again, I'm not going to details about these indicators. Because you are able to find a whole set of information on the web easily. Well. The train is passing sensor. OK anyway, so you feel trading the stocks before you should be familiar with all these indicators. Unless you traded stocks blindly, hopefully not. Anyway, we have, yeah, may exponential moving average, which you've defined. Building this this formula, and it's basically the estimation of the average price during a time window N.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
We also have MFI D. The movie average convert convergence and Divergent, which is defined as the differences between two MA and this is an estimate of the derivative of X, which is a position. According to the definition of velocity. This is an estimate of velocity. Remember, velocity is the derivative of position. Technical stock analysis. We usually have a common choice as the two parameters 12 and 26.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The third parameter indicator, illegals amnesty histogram msat histogram, is computed as a differences between Penny CD and it's moving average. So it is an estimate of the second derivative of XT the position, so it is an estimate of acceleration in stock market analysis. A common choice for these three parameters are 1226 and 9.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So this graph shows the example. Also, msad MFT histogram DMA with parameters 12:26 and 9:00. So this this this curve shows you the 12. You may this this curve shows your 26 PM and their difference. City value at this. This one shows this red curve shows you the night. MA office, MSD and their differences. This bars shows MSIT histogram model. And they have positive and negative values.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Remember, with the five births as intervals. With positive with generation and we also we just to show that ethnicity histogram value is an estimate of acceleration. So we define birth. Is time interval over which the MSIT histogram value is positive. The starting time of the burst is identical to the starting time of this interval. Adding time of birth is identical to the internal. This interval and the strength of the burst is naturally defined as the MFT histogram value, which is not necessarily to be. Discrete it can be any value not necessary to be integers.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So let's look at some experimental results. As I said before, the pub Med topics are arranged in hell. Rocky called Mash, and this graph shows you how the setup of mesh on top mesh hierarchy. We have a set of terms and these are their match indexes. As you can see, this index indicates that the relationship of these terms, descendants and. Ancestors and descendants basically. So all the citations in Pub, Med and Medline are labeled already or annotated with this match topics or terms by experts. So we can we're able to download all these these terms for each publication directly.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So this table shows you the number of match terms for each hierarchy depth and we totally have 50,000 terms arranged in this hierarchy approximately.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So here is available for experiments. We aggregate term frequency counts over annual time window from 20,000,000 biomedical publications citations and our analysis is again an annual number of publications. The aggregate and then we are trying to aggregate the frequency of a term to olive ancestors, even mashariki. Then we apply our model all match terms and we use any city histogram parameter 485 in this analysis. Again because our frequency values are annual, this is different from the traditional stock market analysis because in stock market analysis they have the frequency values. They have daily frequency values, but here with all the frequency values are annual so we have to use a smaller parameters. We have to much more set of parameters.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
We first want to validate the first interval is detected by our topic dynamic model, which you like. Example for the term morphine, which is a drug to relieve severe or agonizing pain and suffering accord.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Into history know when were started in year 1963 and added in 1975, which is showing this time window. We can observe. I'll be also burst. This rad curves are at frequency and these bars green bars are actually the empty histogram model. So we have all the positive and negative face when values. So these are all the births. So.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Towards the end of the war, the publication is on morphine slows resulting a job of burst strength.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Another example is the trans activators, which are the gene products regulate the expression of proteins?

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Again, according to history from the start of the Human Genome Project in 1992, the cloning of Dolly. If you're not familiar with this name, actually the famous clone ship in 1996, the growth of genetic research, generated bursts. Indian I ready the topics during this. So these projects actually boost the publications for this translators and we observe obvious person here.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And we also observed the first period starts before 1990, that basically it probably means that there are already some research going on, and those research might boost the development of these two projects.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Another thing to observe is the trend of the histogram. Clearly the trend of the histogram clearly precedes the trend of the frequency, suggesting the histogram may be used to forecast oncoming event.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And we also.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Serve a berth in 9497. And.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
For the term nucleic acid, they reported any fix 289 and you can see that we also have 8629 iburst.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
And for this one they reported 9293 and again not even 90 three we also observe first your model.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
So we basically show that our model is able to report really meaningful burst intervals. And that's one to compare our model with Kleinberg first model. We observed that client works model focuses on identification of birds in a stream of mixed topics, where is assumed term independence. So it is trying to identify the terms with higher rate than all the other terms, but it may not be that approval rate for mash or Rocky, because imagine hierarchy will accumulate the frequencies of those terms. So the parent terms are used to. Have higher rates than the children terms, so the client breaks model might be biased towards the parent terms. But our model doesn't have this problem because it focuses on identification of birds in a stream of single topics. Remember the definition of msat histogram only depend on the history of that specific term. It doesn't depend on any other terms, so probably our model is more appropriate for birth detection would match her rocky is considered.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Wells observed at Columbus model can be more reluctant to claim the start of a burst because the cost is associated with the burst state transition and his model can be more reluctant to terminate our birth as long as the frequency of the topic is relatively high compared with the frequencies of other topics in the stream. So our model doesn't have this two properties, then it tends to have shorter burst. Actually, in our paper we have many examples. Many experiments to show all these corporations, but there's a time limit. I'm not going to show the experiments. The only experiments I'm going to show here.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
The song. Want to compare Kleinberg burst interval and our burst intervals on the paper titles from the database, conferences, Sigma and well DB. I'm sorry we didn't try CBD. Probably will try CBD. But this, as you can say, as is a Sigma, and V is, well, DD. So this is an interval reported by clambers model. Obviously Columbus Model reports longer intervals while our model reports shorter intervals many for this many short intervals for all these terms these words keywords.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
We also want anyway you valuate the fact of birth detection with different MFD histogram parameters. So again, we do the experiment with paper titles from database conferences, Sigma and well DB and we can see that with larger parameters or the burst intervals reported is actually longer. This means that we can actually adjust the MSIT histogram parameters to adjust the last scale of the verse intervals to be detected.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
And our model has more advantages as we showed before. It may be used to forecast on coming events and it takes into thematic links. The hierarchy between topics that are missed by single stream analysis.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
I have a conclusion. We show that our topic dynamic model represents an alternative for detecting and analyzing birth. Also, we show that the model works well for tracking topic verse of match terms in the biomedical literature. We also compare our model with collaborative model. We show that the differences between the two models and we also show that the two models actually focuses on different tasks. We're not trying to claim that our model is so. Client works model. We're just trying to say that our model actually view the burst detection problem from completing new angle and it has the following advantages. It is computationally efficient we show in the paper that is actually linear. We can model birth with two dimensions, mass and position. We are back. We have better defined birthday stress. We also our model is able to incorporate hierarchy of topics and it may be useful for forecasting upcoming events.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
And that's all about my talk sex and I'm happy to answer any questions from my heart. Thank you.
