We have a genomics facility so well we have a Sanger based sequencing platform and then we have a Illumina hi Seq. We have an LCMS, Orbitrap, and then we also have some. Then we have a group I'm still not working on that, so that is taking care of photobiology in, especially in tomato with the study of blue photoreceptors, crypticon crumbs, that's my area. And then we also have some project on microbiology for studying inducible system and biofuels. So far no beta carotene or total code. In the potato jamplus. OK, so this is just at least of some somewhat trivial stuff that you have to consider when you are starting a metabolic engineering program and in some cases the usual rules for any transgenic plant production. If that. But that's quite a dream to have a good knowledge about the endogenous pathway. OK, so this is again very very quickly of course are when when when I talk about endogenous pathway you have to consider several controls that are transcription, post transcription and post translation. Or are we still performing in the metabolic engineering of coordinates in potato and tomato? And then they are also playing a several functions as a poker tonight, so molecules derived by the breakdown of carotenoid so responses in the biotic stress, especially with respect to funghi. Alpha carotene, beta, cryptic, Santin and beta carotene are the precursors of vitamin A, but overall. With the cyclization step lycopene epsilon cyclase is going to produce a Delta and then Alpha carotene in order to get the so called epsilon beta. Well, nutrition is also a problem in not developing countries. In some countries in Europe and the US, you have such a higher supply with respect with the regular needing. Just consider that this is the average and 1600 relay to Stadion skinny woman and at most for Big Man it's something like 2800. So by real time PCR a an perhaps we could have the reason responsible for this accumulation. Actually an we could detect not only bit accounting in the transferring foods but also Delta coloring and Alpha carotene that are actually the product of the combined activity of the lycopene epsilon cyclase and then The Beatles cyclization. Sorry, an upregulation of endogenous cyclase is either the lycopene epsilon cyclase and bitter cyclist one, also in the transgenic lines expressing the CHY, so we still do not know. OK so biofortification sorry I know that is not so strict scientific. Then we have a data coming from GCMS and LCMS, and then we have a phenomic data. Perhaps identify and metabolite with the. We use this kind of metabolomic approaches other to characterize polar fraction an nonpolar fraction. So in the first case, of course. I will skip this, so just to tell you when we spoke about the pleiotropic effect. Of Golden tubers, then also to Chrome. Water loss and sprouting rate. That is a list of Nobel Prize and other important people from a cultural point of view that they every year they release a list of priorities in the world that we need to find a solution with. For sorry and so you can see that either micronutrient supplementation and biofortification ranked so high in the in the priority. Anyway, biofortification by classic breeding, yeah, that that would be the perfect way to go ahead, but it's not always. So to combine the block strategy and push strategy and see and see if we are able to formally increase the content in beta carotene. Another strategy is just to try to head in the same in the same system, more nutrients so you can simultaneously produce metabolic engineering crop with well actually acting on several pathways and that was the case of this maze in which it was an increase. The carrot annoyed and beta carotene content, the vitamin C and also the folate level. So it's a trial and error strategy.