[0.0s - 29.0s]
Double down everybody. And first of all I would like to thank Christina twice for smaller for the for the opportunity for the cost fellowship. So that is the main reason for my same here in Louisiana and Secondly for the other opportunity to be here in this talk to show you our activities so very far.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
After a short commercial about my instance or where we are, we are detailing agency as a Christian said for new technology, energy and sustainable development and we are we Rome. Actually outside the room in a pleasant area on the Bread Channel Lake. I'm working the group of Johnny Juliano. Here is just the list of the people working in the same group. We have several facilities so with particular regard to our mix. We have a genomics facility so well we have a Sanger based sequencing platform and then we have a Illumina hi Seq. Also for four actually then we have several platform, metrics and the F metrics based platform. So that's my baby that is the metabolomic facility. We have an LCMS, Orbitrap, and then we also have some. GCMS and then some platform for phenomics. This is, for instance in Eastern Analyzer for fruit firmness and other physical parameters like tissue, elastic city, and so on. These are the research activities of the group I'm not working in the genomic group, but they got quite good results during last year. So since they are altering the two papers published in Nature for sequencing of either the potato and then the tomato genome. Then we have a group I'm still not working on that, so that is taking care of photobiology in, especially in tomato with the study of blue photoreceptors, crypticon crumbs, that's my area. So metabolic engineering to study of investigation of natural mutants in coordinated biosynthesis. And then we also have some project on microbiology for studying inducible system and biofuels.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, so that's how I was. I thought to split this talk. So in three sub chapters, the first one regard by OOS fortification topic and metabolic engineering one, then the second one is the specific activities that we carried out. Or are we still performing in the metabolic engineering of coordinates in potato and tomato? For the. Obtainment of the such called Golden Claw Crops and that the third part that is related to the characterization of this trajanic mainly transgenic plants with several approaches of bombings and network biology.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
OK, so nutrition is of course health spotter since we are what we eat actually and usually we have both. Well the main topic in the world are related to. Nutritional deficiencies, and here I just reporting this. Part of this lights to the two main deficiency in the world that are the zinc and vitamin A1 that can result in very severe and serious diseases like ceratomia kind of blindness and then several diseases, reynal and liver disease is OK, but. Well, nutrition is also a problem in not developing countries. Here I just reported a feature of the well illustrating the DS, the battery energy supply in the in the world, so the amount of calories that actually the on the average. Of course each population is going to have every day and you can see that in the not developing countries especially. In some countries in Europe and the US, you have such a higher supply with respect with the regular needing. Just consider that this is the average and 1600 relay to Stadion skinny woman and at most for Big Man it's something like 2800. And of course that can result in. Classical and characteristic diseases for not developing countries like obesity and diabetes.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
OK, so biofortification. OK, now there is an well OK an animation that is not working properly but never mind. OK so biofortification sorry I know that is not so strict scientific. It's Wikipedia, but it's it's quite. Correct, so that's why I use this definition. What's biofortification by fortification? Actually it's. It's a procedure which aim to improve the nutritional content of a food product and it can be reached by other classic breeding or by metabolic engineering activities.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So just consider that for classic breeding, the first breeders, one of the first previous were actually the Aztec that selected several of the current varieties of maize, even potato, etc. That they found. Of course they selected all these crops on the base of the several characteristical like the yield or a hired plans are or also the the sugar content, but it was a kind of. Uncle unconscious. Classic breathing problem and so that's why in many cases there there's been. A reduction in a gym pool and so in the in the trait available in germ plasma of several species. Anyway, he.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Uh, just to say, well, this is the wrong animation anyway, that's just to tell you the this is the list that was released by the Copenhagen Consensus Center. That is a list of Nobel Prize and other important people from a cultural point of view that they every year they release a list of priorities in the world that we need to find a solution with. For sorry and so you can see that either micronutrient supplementation and biofortification ranked so high in the in the priority. This is quite old because it is coming from the 2008, but is even in the in the current list. This is priorities ranked so high.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Anyway, this is just a sum example where is possible to carry out classic breathing. It has been done a lot of work, for instance in beans and several legumes for increasing the iron content, and in several serials for zinc. Anyway, biofortification by classic breeding, yeah, that that would be the perfect way to go ahead, but it's not always.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Possible, and that's the reason since metabolic engineering is sometimes the only the only path available, so.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Here I am going through an example that then it's actually the IT was actually the main goal of my activities during my PhD. So increasing the vitamin A, the pro vitamin A content in potato because.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Buy potato or authorize because they are spread. Lee consumed produced and consumed in several areas in Africa and in Asia in. In detail and the same.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Area you have a very serious level of vitamin A deficiency.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
What's the problem? The problem is that you're just some features related to potato germplasm a potato just found is quite rich, but the problem and you have a very nice let's say, skin colors are also flesh colors, but they are mainly related to flavonoid anthocyanin content. Actually. So far no beta carotene or total code. Annoyed trait has been found. In the potato jamplus. So the only way to try to sort it out is by metabolic engineering.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Approach. OK, so this is just at least of some somewhat trivial stuff that you have to consider when you are starting a metabolic engineering program and in some cases the usual rules for any transgenic plant production. So first of all, in vivo study. So first of all he has to be to understand. I mean, we have to understand that he that. Compound is really active, so it's the right one. If that. We are looking for, then of course the rights PC and a cultivar and then hopefully. But that's quite a dream to have a good knowledge about the endogenous pathway. Especially with regards to several effects that are related to the endogenous control in-depth biological system. OK, very, very difficult, especially for secondary metabolism. Well, OK right promoter gene, that's trivial.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And after getting the. Jenny crop. First of all, checking stability. Checking if the result are was in accordance with in agreement with with the aim of the study, and that's a very tricky point. Then check of course fitness of these plans are and then very important. Also the how to cook and distribute this material because of course you can realize. Also crop a transgenic crop that is reached in some nutrient, but then you have to consider the best way to. Keeper as much higher you can. The level of that metabolites just to give you some example for late the vitamin B they are going to oxidation and you are losing them during the post service call tonight. So they are of course soluble in oil. So if you fried and I will show you something about that, of course you are losing a lot and so on by availability because not always. Even if you obtained an increase amount in that metabolites, then all these this amount is available for the for the human body, and then you have to check. Of course, put attiva player Tropic effect and when you're playing with a secondary metabolism I mean is not we we do not have to say put it 'cause you have.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK, so this is again very very quickly of course are when when when I talk about endogenous pathway you have to consider several controls that are transcription, post transcription and post translation. But then also the enzymatic. Controls and these are the the more difficult to predict because enzymology, and specially in several pathway of secondary metabolism, is it's a kind of desert in terms of know how available.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
OK, so before starting with the activities that we carried out in metabolic engineering of coordinates into medium potato, here is just. The schematic representation of the. Strategies that you can carry out in a metabolic engineering programmer in order to re module the metabolite accumulation in that system OK, the first one is 1 is the so-called push strategy. So usually OK. This is a test, but I will talk about it in detail later on. So the push strategy, then you are usually going to over express some jeans in the pathway. Preferentially the early one, because in many cases they are the one that are controlling the flux along the biosynthesis. The second one opposite with respect to the first, is the block strategy. In this other strategy, you are going to. Silence elite gene in the pathway in order to re direct the metabolic flux toward something that you are interested on. The third one is so-called sync strategy and involved some jeans so that are involved in sub compartment development. And that's the case for instance of some jeans and I will show you one of them that is called Aurora. So arrange a gene that is involved in the transition. +2 Chroma Blaster and during this transition so it's able to increase the amount of metabolites that are under the controller. Of this gene, the 4th one, well basic one regulative. So using transcription factor regulating data that pathway and the fifth one. It's the recycling strategy that is usually the one for vitamin C. For the ascorbic acid in which you have the rerouting of the hydro ascorbate to ascorbate so you can play with this GNC in order to increase the amount in OO. Because it is the. Active biological active one.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK, so let's go finally on Potato Ann.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Tomato. Codeigniter someone says that code on it, so they are wonderful pigments since they colored the world but not only they let us see the world itself, so they are produced during the secondary metabolism in a very broad range of Organism, ranging from bacteria to how your plans.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And implants, they play a very fundamental function, ranging from attraction of pollinator for very important animals that are very important for seed dispersal and for pollination itself. Then they have a double fundamental role in photosynthesis. Firstly as photos in the photo reception. Since they are able to absorb light at different wavelengths, are with respect to chlorophylls and also photo protections. Since they are able to dissipate by through heat, the excess of light energy. There are of course precursors of armaments, ABA.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And then they are also playing a several functions as a poker tonight, so molecules derived by the breakdown of carotenoid so responses in the biotic stress, especially with respect to funghi. Also, a very interesting function is the possibility that that was developed during the evolution to attract the natural enemies of. Plant enemies then regulation during development, and that's the case of struggle locked down so that our normal like molecules produced during the again the breakdown of coordinates and then aroma production. This is suffering that is actually another. Another crop that we're actually it's not a crop, an spice. We are also working on and actually despise the color. The bitter taste and Euronav despise. , from 3 upper girl tonight's across it in for the color pie crossing for the for the bitter taste and suffer no for the aroma.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
OK call tonight singing.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Additional be very quick since we. As said that they are involved in with vitamin A production. Three out of them. Alpha carotene, beta, cryptic, Santin and beta carotene are the precursors of vitamin A, but overall. Most of coordinates. They have antioxidant activities and so they can prevent several diseases. And here is just a schematic representation of the diseases that has been reported in literature. 4 be affected by Kurt, annoyed.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Active OK the the biosynthesis OK not so clear anyway. We are in the isoprenoid group, so it starts with the two molecules of during journey, pyrophosphate. In order to get by activity of an engine that is called fighting Cente. So one or two to get fighting done by through a series of this operation and I said isomerization in plants that you can get like a pin that is, the pigment responsible for the red color or fruit tomato through it but the same. Pathway can be obtained in bacteria with just two genes. Create B that is actually the her to log of PSY one and two and then a multi functional. A gene that is called Kriti. The fighting this alteration that actually is going to do the same job of PDS. That yes, characterize isomerase in plant. Then you have a branching in the pathway an. With the cyclization step lycopene epsilon cyclase is going to produce a Delta and then Alpha carotene in order to get the so called epsilon beta. Hydroxylated Santa fields, such as looting and in the Beta beta branch you have first of all the beta carotene and then a series of sensor field that are called beta beta example, like the accenting through Nelson team.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK, here is here is just as a representation of older so called Golden crops, Golden because of the color, deep yellow, orange and coming from the accumulation of beta carotene or Alpha carotene in these crops. So the first one and I will spend few few words was the gold arise published first publishing 2002 thousand and then in 2005. In two versions and then also in tobacco nectar is made so tomato and that's our partner, and so gone.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
OK, so for the gold arise, as most of you owe it. We will remember it was published in Science on 2000 and the idea came up. By the discovery of the bacterial genes involved in current biosynthesis, so since rises in provide I mean a Carlton, it's the idea was to transform rice with these two genes, the fighting synthase and fighting this other race, and they obtained quite good results. So here reported with the so called gold arise one the nice nice thing here is that. Actually, gold arise one is accumulated beta carotene, but as you can see in this simplified the pathway to get beta carotene. You also need this enzyme. That is the lack of beta cyclase. Well, they found out and actually the reason is still not elucidated. That in Rice Jim Pula actually lycopene beta cyclase was already available as activity and that's why just transforming with these two genes. So they were able to get. The beta carotene accumulation.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
OK, they.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
2005 it has been published Gold Erised tool in which they tried to several promoters for the same jeans and actually they found out that the one used for the. For the older S, one was one of the weaker and using several other. Constructor, they could get the so called Golden rice to hilding. Up to 35 UG, 4 grams of dry weight. Oak.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
OK, now we will start with the activities that we. Performed on potato so potato as well. Rice does not have any Carol tonight or less. Few Santo Fields in the Flash in the tuber flesh, so the idea was to transform these schools. That is Desiree White flash cultivar that does not contain at all beta carotene and just races. And if you would like to get the 50% of the recommended daily. Once of vitamin A with this potato, you should eat 700 kilograms of dry weight. That means. OK, so not good at all and that's why we started with several strategy there.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Suana was block strategy of this gene. Lycopene epsilon cyclase. The idea was a dust to block this branch and read our metabolic flux toward beta carotene. OK, well, we got an increase in total. Alternate up twofold beta carotene increase but still as you can see we reduce the 700 to 50. But still I mean even the more passion. Therefore potato. I think that they would consider still too much.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
OK, second strategy again block, but in the other branch are so on the beta carotene hydroxylase that is converting beta carotene and Jackson team OK. A better result with respect to the lcy data, but still 14 kilograms.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
OK then we started with using a similar strategy of the Golden rice, so we use two series of constructor in which we overexpress the fighting. This alteration. All bacterial genes now so the fighting this ateres alone or in combination with the fight incentives or in combination with lycopene beta cyclase in order to drive the car donate biosynthesis by through GP2. And we produce two series of constructor for a version. For each constructor, one that is called 35 S path in which two out of three genes were under the control of 35 S promoter and the second one in which all the genes were put on were placed under the control of a tuber specific promoter. The number of the promoter for pot in.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
OK, so here are the results. First of all, it leaves we and that was a good news and in accordance with with transgenic program that we applied, we did not observed any alteration and effect in the tuber specific plans. But we could find quite serious interfere in a lift. As in all the constructor starting in the single constructor and then even getting worse in the case of the double and then in the tripolar construct we check the car. Tonight. Content by HPLC and then we also check the expression of all the endogenous genes in the pathway by all time PCR and in accordance with the visual phenotype that we observed. You can see that. There's been a reduction in most keratinized pieces in the leaf, and especially with regard to gene expression. Most of the trusted, but only in the double and in the in the tribal construct. So our idea was actually that Kriti. This is the origin of expressing this in this tissue is going to interfere with with lift. Janice and that could be. It was reported also in other studies and that could be due to the fact that actually the bacterial pathway using and its so called all trans pathway with respect to the. He will carry out pathway that is assist transfer pathway with respect to the isomers that are produced during the several enzymatic reactions. But anyway, that's an affecting pretty, but it's also getting worse in the double and triple construct, and that means that also the other two bacterial genes at some extent can perturbate the. The documentation of Leaf Carrollton.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
OK, now let's go with that Uber, that for us was the most interesting part actually. So again, for all the construct which are the. Total car tonight content and the single species and we got a massive accumulation of occur tonight. In the case of the tribal constructor expression under uh in which all the genes were placed under the control of the tuber specific promoter. You can compare with wild type and also with the other construct. The amounting bit according that is here in the Orange Bar was tremendous. Um? Amount. So that means that we also obtained a bit of beta carotene in the tribal construct, but of the 35 as serious. So the first conclusion that we could draw is that you need the in potato, and that's a different with respect with. With Rice you need the three Gene Cernan not only the two first 2 once and they have to have. Super specific kernel oppression. Otherwise you are not able to get such a high amount in beta carotene. Then another interesting part was to check the expression in the endogenous pathway. So, contrary to our expectation, we found an increase in several transcript in the case of the expression of the double constructor Kriti plus B, but not so much in the what we called Golden potatoes. So this data was quite interesting. We still do not know what was going on in the tubes, but our idea was. That the final product of the activity of Kriti Plus creepy, as you can see here, is like a pin. So lycopene in nature, it's present in very few biological systems like tomato, watermelon, and a few others. And it it needs to be accumulated to specific sublte compartment structures in the in the Chrome plus. So our idea is that since like a bin can be at. At some extent toxic for the cells. Then one explanation could be the activation of the endogenous genes responsible for catabolism, and so perhaps datafication of lycopene.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
OK, so and now the results that we got with with Golden potatoes. OK and now the situation is starting to be quite interesting because with this Golden potato so we can get the 50% of the recommended daily allowance with two 50 grams butter, fresh weight that is something like quite big portion of fries and so on. Although fries, I would not recommend to do to that because. Golden Knights are soluble in in oil.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
OK, so you will remember that we spoke about the sync strategy and that's another strategy that in collaboration with with Lily at USDA in USA at Cornell University, that we carried out. So the idea was to. Try to use this gene that is called orange because it was identifying this cauliflower mutant. That is, that is coding well. The limitation is in a gene in adag in J protein that is responsible in the transition. From chloroplast are two chroma plaster, so and by Alta rating discretion of this gene is possible, and that's the case. This is the empty vector tuber and this is the over suppressor and you can get quite big increase in beta carotene and looting. I mean not so tremendous as we reported for the Golden potatoes, but still interesting.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
OK, and now. Will also tell you about. Tell you something about the other crop that is under investigation in our in our lab that is tomato. So again, the aim was the same, but I mean of course tomato is not a crop as a rice, potato or wheat, but still it's a modern system and it's a model system for coordinate their studies. So that's why it was under investigation. So in this case we use some push strategies but using.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Late genes, so we update. We obtain transgenic plants with all the constructor with fruit specific expression. Since the promoter was the promoter of fighting this at arrays that in tomato is mainly expressed in flower and in through it and the second construct was.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
As an expression of the CHY that is converting beta carotene to the accent in and the third one way.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Those seem tinies OK there is a missing animation simultaneous expression of either lty and CHY, so this is the phenotype that we obtain. Actually all the transgenic through it, so they were orange. It's quite expected in the case of Lcy, and of course in the in the case of the double construct it was a. Totally a schedule in the case of CHY, since the CHY is actually converting beta carotene in the accenting, so your.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Which color? Would let's think about a bit according and that's why we carry out LCMS analysis and your time as well. We did in. As well, we did in. Input.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
So I will skip flower because I can see that I'm already late, so I will go on the fruit and so all the all the transgenic lines. So LCYNTHY and double construct the accumulated beta carotene, and in the case of double confirm, they also accumulate. Examples.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
At. But the good news is that we check the expression of endogenous gene. So by real time PCR a an perhaps we could have the reason responsible for this accumulation. Actually an we could detect not only bit accounting in the transferring foods but also Delta coloring and Alpha carotene that are actually the product of the combined activity of the lycopene epsilon cyclase and then The Beatles cyclization. We could find in all the constructor. We know the Translink line. Sorry, an upregulation of endogenous cyclase is either the lycopene epsilon cyclase and bitter cyclist one, also in the transgenic lines expressing the CHY, so we still do not know. Of course what's going on and if there is any kind of interaction between, for instance, CHY and Delta Y that. Could be responsible for the accumulation that for the. Sorry for the upregulation of the endogenous genes, but still at least so we have mataba light gene expression data that are in some extent.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Agreement. OK, well we.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Also, did GCM.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Then we check the suppression of volatile.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
But I will go head because I'm late. OK, so the last part of the topic was actually to try to characterize these this material.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
OK, this is now quite old paper that for sure we know that was one of the few of the 1st paper describing the concept of systems biology. So the idea to characterize a biological system at several levels and as much is deep and extent extensive. The characterization so much better you can actually understand what's going on. So at the beginning it was. Transcriptomic proteomic summed up.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Comics, but now other kind of data can really help in understanding the biological system, so with any kind of in vivo studies, phenomic data and also and that's very important data available coming from a fluke summit.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
OK, but anyway we're working on for Samix now, but too preliminary to say anything so I can tell you what we are usually doing in the characterization of this transgenic crops. So we have a array or RNA SEQ. This is quite old. We are not using anymore this disarray, so we have already set for potato and then we have our any Seca and we have coffee chip array for tomato, covering the whole automated genome. And that's for the transcriptome part. Then we have a data coming from GCMS and LCMS, and then we have a phenomic data. Using several machines and this is still any strong, so we applied several approaches ranging from mapping software, going to clustering, and then network biology.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
So before getting into in the detail of the analysis just since. I think that that most of you is not so familiar with metabolomics and it's something that we. I really focus on just to give you an idea of what we usually do. Carry out in the metabolomic analysis that we do at the at our wrists, so this is the machine that is actually an HPLC. We then UV vis diode array that is able to detect UV vis Spectra for the compounds that of course they possess a spectrum and this is the mass spectrometry part. The first part is. An linear ion trap a that is the one that is going to detect the end to identify the ions, and it's actually able to do. If you need from mentation in order to have MSMS data for lowing identification, I better identification of metabolites, but the more innovative part of the machine is the one that actually is not so visible here that is behind that is a second trap that is called Orbitrap A and it's. Actually. It's not actually a trapper, it's a detector that is able of measure. The accurate mass of the each ion with an accuracy up to the up to five decimals. And that's very powerful, because since you have UV with data in combination with the interop data and props from fragmentation, then you have the accurate mass. Then I, I mean you can. Perhaps identify and metabolite with the. Yeah, you can feel safe up to 90% OK, and that's very important because in many cases you do not have a, for instance, authentic standards. And that's especially the case for secondary metabolites, and so you have to deal with in other ways. OK, this is just an example of. Mass chromatogram of potato tuber well type this year and this is the the Golden. This is called total ion current. That is the. The again the total. Are you the total current of all the ions that were unit size in the mass chromatogram? So as you can see by visually there were quite big differences in the Golden potatoes with respect to the disarray. But anyway we will go through that later. We use this kind of metabolomic approaches other to characterize polar fraction an nonpolar fraction. So in the first case, of course. We can detect in a single room in a single drama, and that's the. The power of global profiling approach in the same run, we can detect the. Hundreds of metabolites ranging from amino acids to finish proper notes and or months, or in the case of the nonpolar fraction, we can detect the car tonight, so upper coordinates and other ice operates, and then different classes of lipids.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Usually what what is possible to do is a trifle kind of organizes. The first one is called targeted analysis, so you are actually going to look for what you know that that you can find coming from he knows data or from literature data. So actually you just are going to quantify metabolites that you know for sure that they have to be present in the biological system. The second.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
One is the same in targeted analysis. For instance, when you can see some strange a super annoyed that has an UV vis spectrum, but actually it's not something that you know. You try to figure out coming from retention time of course, and on the base of the spectral characteristic it you try to figure out what's the mass of that.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
And the third one that is the most powerful. That is the so called on targeted analysis. So in this case you can. You can just perform an instruction and then you you can carry out the LCMS, run you. It can also be a novel biological system, so you actually do not know almost anything about that system. So you carried out the ransom and then you use some tools.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
You can allow the alignment of the different chromatograms. Then they are going to identify and then. Of course there is the manual creation and validation step, but they can identify all the. Differentially accumulated ions between a sample or another one that can be of course or wild type versus transgenic mutant or ions that are differentially accumulated in a time point and so grown. The validation step is really tricky, so I will. I will avoid detail then if you are interested. Of course we can go through.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
OK, so just yeah few slides to give you some example of the. Analysis that that we we carried out. So this is the case of the of all the transgenic to Bursa that we spoke about. So the idea was. Just regarding to Carrot annoyed metabolism. So what we called local systems biology, although is very well is not so. Is not so correct. So we just put together all the data coming from HPLC at the beginning and then real time data we put all together with alkylating. The correlation coefficient. We produce a correlation matrix in order to identify the. The strongest correlation within the tuber Cortana. Janice the powerful of this analysis, of course, was to not the number of data that were included in the Matrix, but the number of transgenic lines that we included in the analysis. Since we consider all the lines with all the construct. So I mean in this case. A quite high person coefficient is quite stronger if it can be so high with respect to several genotypes. OK, so so.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
We could identify and that was actually a confirmation of what we observed later on, that the third gene into bacterial pathway. The lack of impetus, Iglesias strongly correlated with Alpha carotene, beta carotene, and lutein that strongly accumulated in the in the Golden tubers. And that was something like a positive control within the.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
The analysis, but then.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
We we found other interesting correlation. For instance, we could find a correlation between looting and CHY one. So as you can see, and it's a positive correlation. So it's quite interesting to this data because just consider that looting is acting in epsilon beta branch of the white CHY one is working on the other one, so we are now. Checking whether with several silencing. Approach is to check if there is a real correlation between, for instance, looting and the expression of CHY 1.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
OK.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
Then we did some networks again local metabolism. So only Carol tonight and that's was quite quite nice because we we build this noting with this network in which each node was a gene or a metabolite. In the case of a single constructor, double construct, and tribal construct. We could find increasing the number of trust jeans an increase of stronger. Positive red or negative blue correlation. In the in the Golden tubes with respect to the other construct and this analysis.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Quite helpful to try to identify some hubs that could be responsible of keratinized accumulation in tuber.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
We then built another network in which the main app was the beta carotene in order to identify the notes that were so much more strongly correlated with beta carotene in impulse.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
And, well, in some cases we could find some notes like this ones that were already reported in nature to be involved in carrot, annoyed the accumulation and.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
In positive numbers. But then we also find other nodes and again these loot one that was quite that is involved in the Epsilon beta branch.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
So we carried out in collaboration with people of the National Institute for Agriculture in Italy an genotyping program for several for several. Potato clones, Aranda and varieties, and we could find in a clone that was developed by our collaborators. A mutation in the Youth 1 gene that was one actually of the of the node that we identified by through network biology and this genotype is characterized as you can see, but by. A quite good with respect to the potato German plasma level in beta carotene, an total coordinates, so we're still far of course from the Golden potatoes, but it's a good promising result in the in the field of classic breeding.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
OK.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
I will skip this, so just to tell you when we spoke about the pleiotropic effect. OK, so every time that we went to manipulate paranoid expression ever in potato, that slider and an intimate oh, I will show you later we got a mess. So that's the case of the potato. We could find a global changing in post harvest characteristic of Golden tubers with respect to the. Wild type so just check here. A good news was that either bit accounting and total coordinates. Perhaps it's promotora derived effect. They are going to increase during the post service time. Of Golden tubers, then also to Chrome. And also they increase firmness. Water loss and sprouting rate. They were reduced and all this phenotype are likely associated to ABA content that increased so much in the in the Golden tubers.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
OK, so this is just an example of mapping that we did on the on this Golden tubes because of course we tried by transcriptomics and metabolomics too carried out to figure out what was going on and actually even at metabolomic and transcriptomic level we could find such great extent of alteration especially in the lipidome and in sterile. Metabolism.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
OK, so we draw.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
I put it if I put it if model to explain what was going on associated of course to the increase in ABA can't.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
And so the idea was that since we could observe the such a great changing in the lipid metabolism with increase of several, this operation reduction allow epoxy janessa expression with a consequent. Over accumulation of fighters, steriles and polyunsaturated fatty acid.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
Then this could be, but we have to check and validate this hypothesis an alteration in the membrane.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
In properties that can then result in increase to perform nessun reduce water loss.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
But also another data we obtained. The several clues are coming from the transcriptomic data at level of cell wall and that could be also responsible for two performance. So we are trying to figure out. If one of the of these three people, this can be correct, I will skip this and this.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
OK, yeah, just very, very quickly to tell you about the schedule. Phenotypes that also in tomato. We observe the effects on shelf life. This is the case of the lcy suppression with an elongated shelf life, but The funny thing is that if you overexpress the downstream gene CHY, you have an opposite phenotype, so in acceleration in fruit Dragon, while if you're expressed both you have yeah, and half way, but closer to see HY phenotype. That means that probably see Hy is epistatic, on else why?

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
OK, so. Network biology. We started with the local metabolism, but then we went. We decide to start with a global metabolism approach. So that's the case of. And the network that we build with with several. Metabolites involved in the secondary metabolites mainly, and especially the volatile One South. Of course I mean you are expert in network biology, so you know better than me, but in this case with the such kind of network, it's so few informative. So you have to try the way to get better.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
Information.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
So we use some plugins in on site.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
Shape in order to isolate modern modules showing the stronger correlation, and that was the case of this application, we could find a very strong correlation between Carol denied and lipid derived volatiles. We still have to find the clue, but that's.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
That was the date.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
And.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
In yeah, similarly to what we done in the case of the beta carotene subnetwork, we create quite big network including all the data coming from transcriptomics, metabolomics, phenomics and then we try to find using specific node that we placed in center as maneaba to find other transcript or metabolite that could be strongly. Associated to. Two however. Hub in order to to identify, to identify future potential target of manipulation.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
OK, last slide, I'm sorry I was really late.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
So in future perspective for metabolic engineering, so if you still want to improve, I want to increase the. The level of some nutrients, then the idea first idea is just to use different strategies in the in the same system that, for instance, something that we are doing collaboration with with people at USDA. So to combine the block strategy and push strategy and see and see if we are able to formally increase the content in beta carotene.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
Alternatively, and this is a very nice paper publisher by Paul Krista Group in a Yeah in 2009. Another strategy is just to try to head in the same in the same system, more nutrients so you can simultaneously produce metabolic engineering crop with well actually acting on several pathways and that was the case of this maze in which it was an increase. The carrot annoyed and beta carotene content, the vitamin C and also the folate level.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
OK.

[2523.0s - 2552.0s]
I will skip adjust just to tell you that yeah, the main one of the main problem of metabolic engineering is that. And still this actually, although we have a mix, we try to figure out what's going on and that's why we think, OK, we could express this gene in order to get something that we like. So it's a trial and error strategy. So now hopefully Proxemics can help are.

[2552.0s - 2581.0s]
Ational design. And these are just the conclusion related to the rich bitter Cardinal Richard crops that. We got and the systems biology approach that we are still carrying out in order to better investigate and characterize our.

[2581.0s - 2610.0s]
Biological system.

[2610.0s - 2639.0s]
And yeah, just collaboration with people for the potato part, we have collaboration in Italy in in Germany with the authors of the Eagle, the rights and for the tomato part. We have collaboration with Jim, John and George Monica in USDA and then with people in Israel and in Netherlands for volatile metabolomics.

[2639.0s - 2668.0s]
And yeah, these are the three students working in my group, Maria Potato, Viola, and then Antonio Sardis, working in the in the middle part.

[2668.0s - 2697.0s]
Sometimes they are not, so focus on the work, but it's fine. They also need their time and.

[2697.0s - 2726.0s]
Thank you for the attention.
