Then we will discuss a little bit video understanding and search technologies for open educational resources that we use when we are developing it using the platform. We're developing the project and using. But for the computer, in the absence of any specialized technology, it's just sequences of pixel values, sequences of bits. So what we develop is we develop technologies that allow. So this is this involves a lot of signal processing and machine learning technologies, specially deep learning these days. We can make video searchable in this way that I described, so with using specific vocabularies of concepts we can also go beyond this to also try to understand natural language queries and map them to this kind of concepts. And yet another demo that I will not show which shows how we can using the previous technologies, how we can connect lecture and non lecture videos. We can enhance this experience by showing also non lecture videos that so in practice what the lecture is talking about. For example, one of these is semantic profiling, so let's try to understand the text, in particular with the goal of matching documents to a query so to human language query. So for example, if the user is interested in open innovation, we know that open innovation is part of innovation management. And in more engineering management. In the first case, the titles were even better than the full text, so it makes sense to use them, and they are very effective. In the other case. And in general, moving we are using this technology for developing a joint working and training platform, and the idea is that the researchers and auditors can learn and improve the text and data mining skill just by doing their daily job. So trying to combine these two, which is not always easy. But I can also expand more hope of the graph. We want to promote information literacy. This relates a lot to the use cases I will explain later. So for a company that wants to make sure that its employees are up to date and they can have the latest information that is available out there and they know how to exploit and search for this kind of information, it is quite expensive to train their employees so vocational training. So moving is building a platform that enables users to improve their information literacy by using and evaluating data mining methods and also using them in their daily tasks. To making the content more easily available to users. We have to use cases. The one is research on business information by public administrator, by public administrators. So then, starting with the the technology side, so harvesting data, how we collect all sorts of different data for the platform we try to use materials that are available on the web. For instance, looking into social media.