It's a scientific approach to trying to understand how people's abilities and limitations should be taken into account when you, when you want to design an effective system. Current work on neuroscience, but something that's important to realize is that a lot of the major contributions have been made before and independently of all the recent work in neuroscience that hits the media all the time. Maybe they should, but they don't. So when the test starts off at time equals zero, the stimulus appears. At this point, the cognitive processor production rule gets triggered over here and we see. It fires an that deposits push button and working memory. So that provides the overall framework in terms of the big picture and the small picture, there's a lot more work going on in terms of refining this model, human processor idea, and I'll say a tad more about this later on. Other systems, so start with input basics. If you're making a named movement, you're trying to point to something using visual feedback. OK, the curves flatten out OK. What that means is that pointing to something that's far away is proportionately faster than pointing to something that's nearby because the finger travels. So the mouse followed properly designed mouse follows Fitts law and that's why it works so well very well for long moves. But small targets can be a problem, other devices and this has been measured. Cursor keys or linear with the X&Y distance. A trackball can be good. There's a lot of legends about the QWERTY keyboard, and there's a lot of basically lies and slanders have been made about Sholes, the guy who invented the first practical typewriter and the QWERTY layout. There are better layouts like the Dvorak keyboard for the replacement for the QWERTY layout, but it's not tremendously faster, especially when you consider you don't spend all your time typing. It's not that big an advantage. There are also ergonomic keyboards that are important for a stress problems, OK? Key point here, avoid alphabetic arrangements because they're never good there. Always bad first of almost everybody knows some of their standard keyboard layout for their language system. Humans have two receptor systems, runs a high resolution color system that takes advantage of. So called cone receptors that are densely packed into the fovea, which is the central 1 degree of vision. Requires highlight levels. We also have a sensitive monochrome system, which is what we use night vision for. If you're visually processing into spray a display, but you have to do is move that one degree of your vision around from one point to the next, but in your peripheral vision you can see things, so this is a lot like using a flashlight in a dimly lit room. Here's an important fact all visual properties can be recognized everywhere in the visual field, they just have to be bigger to be seen out and. The eye has extremely high resolution, one minute of Arc. This is much better than our typical display devices. So large high resolution monitors, smaller characters and icons make a lot more information available. Flipside though, text on a display is normally far less legible and ordinary paper printing. OK, well, you really want to do is present the right information in the right way at the right time. This is very sketchy here. More detail, could we get into one way to choose the right information is to think about what decisions will you user need to make at each point in the task and what information do they need to have to support those decisions. First of all, icons are better mouse targets than words. Well, one nice thing about icons is that their square and that makes them relatively big targets from all directions, whereas words tend to be long and thin. And sometimes the word then can be hard to point to because. One of my good buddies from way back pointed out this little obvious fact that most computer interface designers seem to forgotten about, which is that our typical user has invested years in learning a certain way to encode and decode information. Whether anything is useful or not OK, so overview of these topics relevant, HCI. These are aspects of individual human cognition and performance, as opposed to groups of people. First of all, there's the big picture of human cognition performance than the small picture, particularly set of theoretical ideas as well, represented by the model human processor. There is actually some research results showing that if you have to find find an object on the screen based just on its icon, it doesn't work very well at all and less this is true. It has a single distinctive perceptual feature that the user knows. A simple shape is second best, but a far second OK. These are almost useless regarding visual search and were labels are often more useful in a search than an icon because for, among other things, you can alphabetize things so that gives you that allows you to do something akin to binary search. OK, so here's the big picture. The user knows what they want to do, but they don't know how to do it. When they confront a specific system, they don't know which buttons to push in what order. They do know what they're trying to accomplish. Well, they've got some strategies they can bring to bear if they already know the procedure, then they're just performing a routine skill. They might learn the procedure by reading explicit instructions, or they might infer procedure using problem solving strategies. By courtesy, we have things that look like physical buttons, and once you figured out how to use a mouse than that thing that looks like a button sort of says push me, push me after a while you learn well all you can actually do is move this arrow over that thing and then click on a button. Guys OK out psychologists like to distinguish the knowledge that's relevant here and declarative knowledge and procedural knowledge. Declarative knowledge is knowledge of facts. It's the kind of knowledge that we're sort of used to learning all the time. Procedural knowledge is knowledge of what to do, its knowledge of procedures. There's some specific ideas about how to represent this. It's called the rationality principle. Humans have limited ability to process information. Key point here is that the goal that goes the tasks in the operators don't depend on the characteristics of the individual person. You can often define the optimum performance in these terms like what's the fastest way to do a certain thing with a system that has this design. Define optimum ways to get things done. So this is a simple information processing model of the overall structure and mechanisms that are involved in the human mind. The patterns are all tested in parallel, but then the actions are performed serially. If you have a procedure that you know, or you have a skill, what you have is a set of rules that once they get started firing, they will fire in the proper order to carry out the task properly. OK, the cognitive processor then in this framework thinks by manipulating the contents of working memory according to these production rules. Press the button as fast as you can, and you can write Journal articles based on the results of this. In this case, just this one that says if the term stimulus isn't working memory, then put push button and working memory and we assume that their motor processor has a little bit of knowledge here that's says if push button is the command and working memory then trigger the various muscles which will cause a button to be pushed.