[0.0s - 29.0s]
I've been getting over being jet lagged by. Running all over this beautiful city and seeing things that I had already always read about but never actually seen before, so I'm ready to sit down by rest for a change, but I have to stand up for the next 45 minutes to do this presentation. Supposed to have a break at 7:30. I've asked our assistant to be sure to interrupt me when the great goodies arrive, 'cause I'll be as eager as you are to have them. OK, my topic is psychology and human computer interaction. The contributions of. Experimental psychology to the analysis of user interfaces and how to improve the design.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Of them, what role does this have? It's a scientific approach to trying to understand how people's abilities and limitations should be taken into account when you, when you want to design an effective system. Not everybody knows about experimental psychology, but it basically started in the late 19th century, developed out of Physiology. And over the last century or So what we've developed are methodologies for doing very carefully controlled experiments. If you want to know how to collect data on how people think and behave, this is the field that knows how to do it. One of the things that was developed is how to analyze the data statistically to sort out what's noise from water. Eel affects very sophisticated methodology's were developed to support that, and then finally over the decades has been an attempt to develop good theories to account for phenomena that have been observed in terms of the mental machinery that's inside peoples heads. This is greatly supported by the. Current work on neuroscience, but something that's important to realize is that a lot of the major contributions have been made before and independently of all the recent work in neuroscience that hits the media all the time. OK, how does this feel different from human factors and usability? It's the emphasis is on developing general cyantific knowledge. A lot of these people don't care very much about solving practical problems. Maybe they should, but they don't. The work is based on empirical results, but the goal is the development of the scientific theory. OK, what I'm going to be doing is sort of taking a cut through this work, pulling out the parts that are directly relevant directly applicable to human computer interaction concerns, acknowledging that a lot of my academic colleagues don't really care.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Whether anything is useful or not OK, so overview of these topics relevant, HCI. These are aspects of individual human cognition and performance, as opposed to groups of people. I'll show you the general approach. Sansome useful specific results. I've selected things that are relevant to design, but basically I'm talking about a field that's been in business for more than a century, so there's an awful lot of things I'm leaving out, OK. User testing and usability development has already been covered by Keith, so I won't be saying anything about that. OK, top specific topics here. First of all, there's the big picture of human cognition performance than the small picture, particularly set of theoretical ideas as well, represented by the model human processor. Then three more specific topics. The basics of input, the basics of output, and the basics of procedures. When people are using a device to get something done one way or the other there following a procedure. So understanding how people deal with procedures is then of a central topic.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
OK, so here's the big picture. Boy, this is sketchy, but here's the idea. The user knows what they want to do, but they don't know how to do it. When they confront a specific system, they don't know which buttons to push in what order. They do know what they're trying to accomplish. They may know something about how the system works, and they'll approach this situation with strategies for getting the task done. Basically, they have to come up with a procedure they have to do something to this device in a specific sequence. To make things happen, how do they come up with that procedure? Well, they've got some strategies they can bring to bear if they already know the procedure, then they're just performing a routine skill. They might learn the procedure by reading explicit instructions, or they might infer procedure using problem solving strategies. For example, an analogy with a similar system. Most digital clocks actually follow a very similar pattern of how you set the time and set the alarm. They cycle through modes and all that stuff. So if I give you a digital Clock, you haven't ever seen before, you can probably figure out how to use it just by noticing that that same pattern seems to apply. You can mess around with the device. There's a concept called affordances, like. I haven't seen this particular. Light pointer before and if I try to figure out how to make it point notice well there seems to be something here I can press. It affords pressing as the funny English term for the and so sure enough if I just mess with it. I discovered that if I press it, it works OK, so there's a lot of a lot of physical devices you can figure out just by essentially how they're constructed doors. Or the same way you can usually figure out how to open a door. Just because there aren't too many different ways you can physically interact with the door, people have asserted that this same kind of thing applies to computers. But if you stop and look at it, it only applies to computers. By courtesy, we have things that look like physical buttons, and once you figured out how to use a mouse than that thing that looks like a button sort of says push me, push me after a while you learn well all you can actually do is move this arrow over that thing and then click on a button. And that somehow corresponds to pushing the physical buttons that were actually used to. OK. Finally, you can figure out how to operate a device if you have knowledge about how it works. This is often called a mental model. One of the best examples I know of. This comes from the Star Trek Movies, which you may have seen where Scotty figures out how to operate the Klingon Starship, even though he's never been in one before apparently. But he does that because he knows how starships works, so he knows he's able to figure out the controls. OK, humans? Normally we don't do very well with this sort of thing, and as the technology is developed it becomes harder and harder to know how the thing works. You could build a computer from chips yourself. You could have that knowledge, but if I give you a digital device, there's a very good chance that unless it follows some similar pattern is something you've seen before, you will not be able to figure out how to operate it based on your knowledge of how digital systems work. It depends on the arbitrary programming that somebody else did. OK, so this is actually a very weak form of knowledge for inferring how to operate it.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Guys OK out psychologists like to distinguish the knowledge that's relevant here and declarative knowledge and procedural knowledge. Declarative knowledge is knowledge of facts. It's the kind of knowledge that we're sort of used to learning all the time. Procedural knowledge is knowledge of what to do, its knowledge of procedures. There's some specific ideas about how to represent this. Both of these are relevant to interacting with the device and a key concept here is that. The more knowledge that's required to interact with the device successfully, the harder it's going to be to learn how to use, and the harder is going to be to actually use it. OK, even if you already know how to use it, the steps involved, the mental steps you have to go through the procedural steps you have to go through correlate's with how much of that knowledge there is to learn, so the classical distinction between oh Gee, this system could be easy to learn or could be hard to use, actually does not hold. Systems that are easy to learn almost always are also easy to use, and vice versa. OK, this historical accident that we early in the history of computer systems encountered systems where that was not true. OK, but by and large ease of learning and ease of use go together.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, whoops. OK, an important principle. That is, that can be applied here. It's called the rationality principle. When people are interacting, when people are trying to get something done. A good first approximation is there trying to rationally deal with the situation. They're trying to meet their goals and what determines how well they can do. That is the characteristics of the task, what it is they have to do, what's possible actions can be done, what input information they have, what knowledge they have in their processing limitations. Humans have limited ability to process information. And that plays a role. Then in how they figure out how to get something done. Key point here is that the goal that goes the tasks in the operators don't depend on the characteristics of the individual person. There are function of the objective or physical situation. You can often define the optimum performance in these terms like what's the fastest way to do a certain thing with a system that has this design. In this situation, what's the best way to delete a word? For example, do you point out and double click? For example, or do you drag over it while dragging over it and then hitting delete would be slower than double clicking on the word and and. Hitting delete leaky chicken. Define optimum ways to get things done. OK the rationality principle then would say that with practice, people try to optimize if possible. They have to have the required knowledge they have to work within their processing limits, but to the extent that they can do this, you can actually predict behavior surprisingly well. For example, I can predict. Given what I know about these factors in the situation and the way most people try to optimize things that yeah, approximately 25 minutes from now, almost all of you are not going to be in this room. OK, how do I know that I'm doing a very specific prediction of behavior you're not normally used to thinking of behavior as being that predictable, but in a lot of situations it is an one of the concepts of psychology. In HCI is to take advantage of the fact that under certain conditions you can actually predict what people will do. If you can predict what people will do, then you can predict whether a particular design will work well or not OK, OK, so our basic goal is to try to modify these objective aspects of the situation. To allow people to get there.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Work done better OK? Small picture. 1983 card Moran and Newell in a famous book of theirs, which we're having a session on later in the conference to celebrate the 25th year of it. Put together a set of ideas from psychology the last 100 years or so of it, and they recast it in the form of engineering models. So this is a simple information processing model of the overall structure and mechanisms that are involved in the human mind. This provides some quantitative descriptions of important things. What this thing is bastof is and I'll just.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
To the next picture, it's a set of interconnected processors. The things shown in Gray circles here and memory stores which are shown in these squares, and I don't want to go through all the gruesome details of this. I have a quick example to show you how it works, but basically what this does is pull together a whole bunch of phenomena that have been observed into a relatively simple form that it's easy to see what's involved in getting a particular task done. And so here's a quick example. Before the quick example, I have to tell you how the key box here works, which is this thing called the cognitive processor. It takes information from a production memory and long term memory and working there.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And here's the idea. This is a strange idea. That's a mixture of or what we had often called cognitive science. The original idea developed in both psychology and artificial intelligence turns out to be a very good way to represent human procedural knowledge. If you know how to do something, what you have is a whole bunch of these pattern action pairs in memory and production memory. The patterns are all tested in parallel, but then the actions are performed serially. Each one of these takes about 70 milliseconds. If you have a procedure that you know, or you have a skill, what you have is a set of rules that once they get started firing, they will fire in the proper order to carry out the task properly. I don't want to spend grew some time on the details, but this actually works out very well in terms of accounting for human problem solving and execution of skill, and it's nice because it can be represented in the form of a computational simulation, so this is a dandy way to build a simulated human that knows how to do tasks, and then that will represent how we think the test should be done. OK, the cognitive processor then in this framework thinks by manipulating the contents of working memory according to these production rules. OK, each rule can modify what's in working memory and then that can trigger which rules will execute.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Next, so here's my quick little example, but the simplest tasks psychologists ever study is called simple reaction. Light comes on. Press the button as fast as you can, and you can write Journal articles based on the results of this. OK, maybe even get tenure. OK, but anyway, here's how it be represented in this in this system. What we assume is that after hearing the instructions, what the person has is of program sets up some production rules and production memory. In this case, just this one that says if the term stimulus isn't working memory, then put push button and working memory and we assume that their motor processor has a little bit of knowledge here that's says if push button is the command and working memory then trigger the various muscles which will cause a button to be pushed. OK.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So when the test starts off at time equals zero, the stimulus appears. Then after the visual processor is done, it's thing after 100 milliseconds. Combination of processing the visual stimulus an in recognizing it takes 100 milliseconds on the average for a simple stimulus and we get the term stimulus being deposited in working memory. So that's after time.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
100 milliseconds. At this point, the cognitive processor production rule gets triggered over here and we see. It fires an that deposits push button and working memory. That takes another 70 milliseconds, and then the motor processor gets triggered by that push button. Command sitting in working memory and that causes muscles to twitch and after 240 milliseconds the button actually gets pressed. That's a good. That's a rough approximate estimate, but it's pretty pretty typical for what a simple reaction will take. Yes, was there? Clarification question. Yeah, it varies by a lot of things and all these values vary in various ways, but the key idea here is is that if you're trying to get a system designed. Oftentimes these approximations are good enough to allow you to tell a good design from a bad design. If you're in a situation that requires more detail, more precision than you can collect data as necessary to get more refined. Estimates of this. OK, so you should view this as a first simple approximation that works well enough for design purposes, and I'll provide more, more extensive example of how this sort of thing actually works in practice later. OK. OK so but this is sort of basic sketch of where psychology is in terms of understanding a lot about the structure of the human mind and how it works from the point of view of engineering purposes. If you're trying to get a system design, this is not a bad idea about how to view what goes.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Done with with humans OK. So that provides the overall framework in terms of the big picture and the small picture, there's a lot more work going on in terms of refining this model, human processor idea, and I'll say a tad more about this later on. But next thing I want to get to, or some important phenomenon ideas about perceptual motor incog.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Other systems, so start with input basics. These are this is input to the computer which is output for the human OK. Pointing a mouse as an example of a named movement and aim movements were studied extensively long before anybody thought of a computer mouse. OK, an Paul Fitts who Keith mentioned came up with this empirical relationship called Fitts Law. And here's what's interesting. If you're making a named movement, you're trying to point to something using visual feedback. Interesting quantitative fact. If you plot how long it takes to make the movement. As a function of the distance to the target look, look how it's. Less than linear. OK, the curves flatten out OK. What that means is that pointing to something that's far away is proportionately faster than pointing to something that's nearby because the finger travels. Your hand travels at a higher average speed, the greater the distance, OK? Another thing happens if the target is small. Small targets are disproportionately hard to point to. OK, see how the curve rises up S for target size. What that means is that if it's if the target is tiny, it takes disproportionately long to point to. OK. Well, Paul fitts. Work this out and it was verified by a lot of experimental studies, and it turns out that there's this interesting quantitative formula that. How about that? Just had a battery failure. Interesting quantitative relationship that people have made very heavy use of. There's a very good chance that you'll hear it mentioned at this conference as. Something is very fundamental, but when you give people device to interact with the computer. Especially with GUI's OK, what's the first thing that happened with the graphical interface? You needed a graphical pointing device. Turns out the mouse is a good choice and this is the basic empirical fact that explains why the mouse is a good choice in many circumstances, but can be a terrible choice in other circumstances. OK, when the very first Macintosh appeared, it did not have any cursor keys, OK? Only the mouse an right away. Everybody was amazed at how painful it was to get the cursor position between two periods. OK, well, cursor keys will do that very well, 'cause that's where the mouse does not work well, OK. However, if you want to zip around the screen and point to something here, point something here, something here something here. We're in this regime over here you can be very fast and very efficient.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So the mouse followed properly designed mouse follows Fitts law and that's why it works so well very well for long moves. But small targets can be a problem, other devices and this has been measured. The classic card Moran and Newell book included some of this work. Cursor keys or linear with the X&Y distance. So if you have to go along way diagonally across the screen, they don't work well at all compared to the mouse. A trackball can be good. But not better than a good mouse. If you ever have to stroke the trackball, then you're in a different control regime, potentially much slower than within the mouse. If you don't have to stroke it, though, it can be the same thing joysticks are can be very different because there's a lot of different ways of controlling the position in the velocity of the mouse. Depending on what you do with the joystick, there are some control regimes that are very difficult to use. You often see those in computer games OK. OK, so but here's this point here is that keyboard can be faster if you only need a few keystrokes. An important principle here. I'll mention these numbers more later is that This is why well designed keyboard interface can still be very good. OK, even though people rarely bother with him these days, there are. There are certain user domains where raw speed is important. Currency trader once told me this OK and they really like to have an all keyboard interface for that reason.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK. Keyboards her good idea because printing by hand is actually relatively slow compared to the typical user of a keyboard. These days can hit a key in about 1/4 of a second right hand. Writing a character can take quite a bit longer than that extremely good typist or remarkably fast. So lesson to be learned from this immediately is that a pen based interface can have a lot of advantages, but raw speed is not one of them compared to a keyboard. Americans and I guess English people from England are used to the QWERTY keyboard. There's a lot of legends about the QWERTY keyboard, and there's a lot of basically lies and slanders have been made about Sholes, the guy who invented the first practical typewriter and the QWERTY layout. If you ask me, I'll be delighted to tell you about what I'll try to write a paper about one of these days, But what he was really trying to do and how that turned out to be the right answer as far as typing speed, even though at the time he did it, nobody was a touch typist, I can't see him, or else I'll end up talking the whole rest of time about this story. OK, anyway, what shows this keyboard turned out doing is taking advantage of the fact that you can hit keys on alternating hands faster. Then you can hit keys within same hand, it's just how your hands work OK. Shows keyboard has a lot of alternating hand advantage to it. There are better layouts like the Dvorak keyboard for the replacement for the QWERTY layout, but it's not tremendously faster, especially when you consider you don't spend all your time typing. OK, so this even if it's a 20% advantage you have to prorate that over the amount of time a day you actually spend typing an. It's not that big an advantage. There are also ergonomic keyboards that are important for a stress problems, OK? Key point here, avoid alphabetic arrangements because they're never good there. Always bad first of almost everybody knows some of their standard keyboard layout for their language system. There's no standard alphabetically out, so each one is new and you typically have to operate it very slowly by looking for the individual keys. And Furthermore, even if he had memorized it. Chances are it won't have any alternating hand advantage, and it'll be actually slower.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
OK, OK, flipping the other side output from the computer into the human human vision. Humans have two receptor systems, runs a high resolution color system that takes advantage of. So called cone receptors that are densely packed into the fovea, which is the central 1 degree of vision. About that much OK. Requires highlight levels. By that would mean normal daytime or office lighting, and it's got three receptors in it, red, green, and blue, and our perception of color is based on our nervous system comparing the stimulation for the different receptors. We also have a sensitive monochrome system, which is what we use night vision for. It's basically not in the picture for normal under normal lighting conditions or normal display conditions, but it's there OK. What this gives us though, is that. If you're visually processing into spray a display, but you have to do is move that one degree of your vision around from one point to the next, but in your peripheral vision you can see things, so this is a lot like using a flashlight in a dimly lit room. You can see all the objects in the room, but until you put the light on it you can't see the detail. Here's an important fact all visual properties can be recognized everywhere in the visual field, they just have to be bigger to be seen out and. And peripheral vision. OK, so if I'm looking over here I can almost see the red shirt that. This gentleman is wearing OK. If they hear a lot bigger, I could definitely see it more easily, even though I'm looking out of peripheral vision. OK, so in fact peripheral vision is used to decide what to look at next and things are big enough then it's effective. It turns out there's some basic visual cues that work well in peripheral vision to help help guide. Moving the eye around to get the high precision things. So.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Basic fact. Our current computer technology, grossly under utilizes the ability abilities of human vision. The eye has extremely high resolution, one minute of Arc. I'm sorry about that. I didn't put this in metric units OK, but I can tell you it's going to be roughly. People can make out something roughly the size of a one or two euro coin, roughly at the distance of a football field. And by that I mean either American or European football. OK, that's pretty incredible. It's also about 300 dots per inch at 12 inches. This is much better than our typical display devices. OK, so typical display devices are not using anything like the resolving power of human vision. What that means is that we're in a position to put a lot more information on screens than we usually try to accomplish. If it's well organized visually, then you can in fact scan the information very quickly and we've got all this amazing resolving power. So we could have pretty small things on the screen and have it work pretty well. So large high resolution monitors, smaller characters and icons make a lot more information available. It's always struck me that the pixels that in our hardware actually the single most expensive unit in our computers systems, specially when you figure the big displays OK, you really want to use those efficiently. OK, something that's irritated me about a lot of computer software is how many? How many pixels would be thrown away on? Huge window borders. For example, you don't need those huge window borders. Just think how much more you can see if you didn't have those OK text. Flipside though, text on a display is normally far less legible and ordinary paper printing. What this means is that you can't put as many as much text on a screen as you can on paper. This is partly a result of this lower resolution. If you have the best of current technology, you can match the speed of reading paper. OK, the very best. Or similar. Well, the clearer the type, the better, but still. The clear type is a certain kind, yeah? That's one of the things that's evolved is trying to trying to get the typography better and using anti aliasing. Basically if you throw everything we've got OK our very best displays are very best way of putting things on the display. You can match paper but anything short of our very best paper is still better. OK so that's something to keep in mind. Is that paper as a technology still has a lot going for it. OK, so don't be too ready to throw too. Say well I have to do is put this on the screen and it'll work just as well. Maybe not. It's especially bad if you make your user flip through multiple screens to see the same amount of information they could get on a piece of paper. OK, now now it's costing a lot in order to be reading from a screen, here's some traditional human factors. Guidance on lettering sizes, which I'll just skip.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Over for now. K when people I used to get called all the time maze 'cause I kept getting grumpy and people quit calling me. Let's say would you come out and look at our screens or what do you mean? Look at your screens. Well we want to know if our colors are good choices and I say what do you want to know that for? OK, that doesn't really have very much to do with the usability of your system or even the usability or displays. OK, well, you really want to do is present the right information in the right way at the right time. This is very sketchy here. More detail, could we get into one way to choose the right information is to think about what decisions will you user need to make at each point in the task and what information do they need to have to support those decisions. Pick a good representation for that information. It can make a huge difference how it's represented. Pick a good way to represent it and try to have all that relevant information on the screen simultaneously, and that's because if you've done a good job on it, people can move their eyes around the display and. Pick up the information, much, much faster than if they have to flip from one screen to the next, OK. That's just a fact, the I can move in the order of milliseconds from one place to the next. Hitting a key as we saw under the best conditions is typically around 280 milliseconds. OK, I is much faster than the hand you can take advantage of that, and that's the principles that how you should layout to display note.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Time for details. However, this is an important topic. One of the things that we did for us was to get us into using icons all over the place and we had a great time with icons. OK, but it turns out it's not particularly helpful, and it's really interesting how crazy this is gotten. First of all, icons are better mouse targets than words. Remember how small targets are a problem to point to? Well, one nice thing about icons is that their square and that makes them relatively big targets from all directions, whereas words tend to be long and thin. And sometimes the word then can be hard to point to because. You're trying to hit a small target coming at OK icons. There are often arbitrary and meaningless. They can be hard to recognize. One of my good buddies from way back pointed out this little obvious fact that most computer interface designers seem to forgotten about, which is that our typical user has invested years in learning a certain way to encode and decode information. It's called words. Why do we want to throw that away or disable that? Well, we really like to do it. I guess icons clearly work best when they're concrete and highly recognizable in the context of that app.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
OK, little bit more. There is actually some research results showing that if you have to find find an object on the screen based just on its icon, it doesn't work very well at all and less this is true. It has a single distinctive perceptual feature that the user knows. It turns out a big solid color is best. It produces an effect we call pop out. It can be seen in peripheral vision well on the I can then go directly to it. A simple shape is second best, but a far second OK. Most of the time though, icons are these complicated multi colored shapes. These are almost useless regarding visual search and were labels are often more useful in a search than an icon because for, among other things, you can alphabetize things so that gives you that allows you to do something akin to binary search.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
To locate something references I can try to remember if there in the list, but I can. I can show you a lot. Some of these are classic results in human factors mean I can provide you with information. There's a lot of new results on it to break time. OK are they actually? Is it actually there yet? OK. I'm sorry, oh it's downstairs. OK, let me just finish this. A couple examples slides be perfect. Time to break them. Here's an example of pop out from color. If I tell you where. The games are blue. OK, bang there you are OK. This is from the old Classic Mac interface where you could color a whole folder icon this way. OK pick a few colors for the important things like games. OK, you go directly to it. Visual search is extremely.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Fast. Current Mac OS 10. Yeah, you can color these labels, but look how tiny they are. See much weakens the pop out effect.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
A lot. But if you try to find icons now in OS 10, we have wonderful, beautiful, spectacular icons, but. These are very hard to search for. About the only thing that I never seem to be able to pick up on is that the Safari icon is kind of got a lot of circular in its blue. OK, that's circular in blue. That's circular and mostly blue. That's kind of circular, and that's a lot of blue. That's a lot of blue. Lot of blue. That's a lot of green. I can usually find that one quickly. OK, so one moral of the story is that we love our graphical interfaces so much. We've actually made them hard to use compared to what they could be. OK.
