I'll try to be brief. So basically what we did was conducted crowdsourcing experiments to rank English multi word expressions according to their difficulty. Here we have some examples. For instance to burn the midnight oil to be absorbed in something and so on. We did this because we, well, we think that manual annotation with CFR levels is time consuming and difficult even for experts. A very brute force approach to create a linear scale so to rank expressions from the most difficult to the easiest and we just took all the annotations for a specific expression, regardless of what expression it appears within a certain combination and just average the sum of the ranks, the expression God, so the difficult ones were assigned a rank of three, and the easier ones were assigned the rank of one while the other two were assigned a rank of two. I mean, harder expressions should more frequently be annotated as more difficult as rank three, and vice versa for the easier ones. So this is the linear scale on the left side. Then we had a second method of merging the results. And we basically created a 60 by 60 matrix of all the average distances between the expressions so. You can see that most Miss Misclassifications were between neighboring levels, so you have a lot of a ones that were assigned as a twos and C ones that were assigned to see twos, but there is no A1 that was assigned as a as a C2, or vice versa. The data using the Tensorflow embedding projector. Doing the literature overview which Illinois mentioned earlier today, we didn't really find any sort of work that dealt specifically with crowdsourcing for generating language learning exercises. It doesn't really take that much effort, so the crowd sources didn't really need that much training. Guidelines were just four bullet points long and the results were comparable to expert annotations, so it was a very impressive result. So what about language learners? Hi, thank you for the presentation. Then I went to Gothenburg and we set up the experiment together with David. And then the preparations for the workshop in December took place when we conducted the experiment and presented the results in December at the workshop. Multi word expressions, verbal ones and adverbial ones like to burn the midnight oil. You have to rank the entire list. And ranking a subset of tasks is difficult because it's the combinations that you give to people might affect the results, and it's not very user friendly and it's very difficult to merge and to know which combinations to really use so. Where you simply choose the best and the worst unit in a combination of three to four candidates. So what information does that provide? And if you use best worst scaling with four elements. As you can imagine, I mean if you have 60 expressions that comes to about half a million combinations for combinations of four units, so you're not going to ask, you're not going to ask crowd sources to annotate half a million combinations. To cover all the binary relations among the elements and that was 326 tasks per project. And with an average response time of 30 seconds, and if we wanted to collect 5 responses per task, then each crowdsourcing we had would have to solve 82 tasks for projects which would amount to about 40 minutes of their time. So they have to decide which expression is the most difficult or the easiest for a language learner to produce, not to understand, but to produce. If there was a tie, we were told they were told to just choose one at random and not to overthink the decision.