First parts is a study of how the choice of similarity graphs in machine learning effect actually. The result of your learning algorithm, or to make it more provocative, I would say that often the choice of the craft structure as a larger influence on the solution then the algorithm on top. And I want to show you at least the difference of the choice of graph types. So again, it's obtained for one fixed hyperplane. Soil sample size cost Infinity and we have always two conditions here. It's just the density is given as a mixture of three Gaussians in two dimensions. The optimal normalized cut if you restrict yourself to hyperplanes should be basically orthogonal to the access connecting the means. For yeah, if you have some reasonable sample size. So what we do is for this experiment we use spectral clustering. And I come back actually later on to how spectral clustering is related as a regulation of normalized cut. Into two sets of this of this graph and we sample basically from this mixture of Gaussians. We sat here for the K nearest neighbor. Find examples also in higher dimensions where the results of spectral clustering are different. Major limitation is at the moment that the results or holds only for unweighted graphs, but I think that we can generalize it to weighted graph and. Basically, is standard spectral clustering really the best approximation to the normalized cut? And it's well known that if the graph is connected, then only the first eigenvalue zero and the corresponding eigenvector is just the constant eigenvector, so all components are the same. So how do we get spectral clustering as a reputation of the ratio cut in this case? On the set C, an constant on the set C bar. OK so the racial Cheeger cut is also a balanced graph cut. OK. And then one can show that using the standard isoperimetric inequality or basically the proof of Spicer, parametric inequality that this relation holds. But actually this makes a huge difference, so the upper bound is quite loose, and it's even the more loose. Basically P goes towards form, so that means the cut found by optimal thresholding of the pyaing vector of the second peeing vector will converge to the optimal ratio Cheeger cut. But one first sees that is that one recovers the standard graph Laplacian for the case P = 2. If the graph is connected only first eigenvalue is 0. They have web graph, social networks, protein, international website citation networks and the nice thing about graph is that we that it actually melts relations between data. And in the meantime, in the recent guests, a lot of craft based methods have been proposed. OK. And the yeah, no one can prove that the second eigenvalue of of the P Laplacian is just a global minimum of this functional. And the second eigenvector off the peel of lost income can be computed using the global minimizer of dysfunctional. It's not turns out not to be very easy, but it's much easier to find all critical points. So what you do in the peel up lesson you can see if you find the second eigenvalue appeal updates and it's and relaxation of this problem here where you have a balanced graph cut cut here are defined it in this way. And with the special cases, if you plug in P = 2, you recover the ratio cut and if you go to limit P equals one who will cover the Rachel Chico cut? Also the P Laplacian basically interpolates between the Rachel cut and the ratio Chico cuts. Fall experience we used the symmetric anus Democrats with a fix to 10 so we basically did not want to interfere with the graph specials. So that means if we have K classes we also cluster into K clusters and we measure the agreement of the found cluster with hourglass structure. In this space, we construct the graph. As follows, we use the data points as vertices of our graph and then we connect similar points. Basically, you make the assumption that due to strong dependencies of your features, the data is actually concentrated or around the low dimensional structure. Once this the K nearest neighbor graphs. And OK, usually are in the following I assume that we always in a statistical setting that means our data is actually an IID sample from some probability measure on the space, and in this case all these graphs, also called random geometric graphs. And well, I want to get into status more proactive statement that the choice of this graph structure that means witchcraft you choose and how you choose the perimetre of this graph actually has more influence on on your learning performance as the choice of the algorithm on top. Problems it clearly holds, and astonishingly this is not a well studied problem. So one could define clustering in that way that you clustering means you try to prove points such that points in each group are similar and in different groups are dissimilar. And it's clear that from from this kind of definition that it's actually not a mathematical definition, so we have for clustering no clear objective. Well, we have clear objective. And there are not too many models about what clustering should be in the sense of formulated in terms of the data generating probability measure. Opposites well what we use most of the time. We denote by a bar the complement of a set. Three function is just the sum of the adjacent edge rates and the cut of the sets A and a bar. Once the cardinality of a set and here volume is defined as the sum over the decrease in this set a. OK, and then there are two well known balance graph cut criteria. The first one is what is really the clustering objective corresponding to the normalized cut formulated in terms of the data generating probability measure and then the second question is that it depends on the graph type. Now from with probability measure in Euclidean space where we have assumed that we have also density. Neighborhood graphs are in this case unweighted and we restrict possible cuts.