So as I said, it's an acronym findable accessible, interoperable and reusable, and I have a slide on each of these. But just to note that generally, depositing data in a reputable, reputable data repository so that Karen data Centers for example, largely takes care of F Na for the reasons outlined earlier on they give you a personal identifier, they put the metadata registry that can make it findable, and they provide some mechanism of accessing that data, and we went into detail on that so. Where the data currently is, or two at least one landing page which describes that data. May have to jump through authentication mechanisms in order to access the data, but obviously the supposed to trust, certainly from the perspective, is that where possible and their cash line is as open as possible as close as necessary where they where you don't have legitimate reasons to require you to keep the data, the data elements themselves hidden. But the interoperability puts the onus very much on the person creation the data and what it means is so the kind of technical definition is the ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information. Basically at the at the very low level. Again, I don't notice any work with work with tabular data, but if you work with the spreadsheet or CSV file, there's no restrictions on how you lay that data out, so it might take about somebody a lot of time to kind of take the data. In a table that make the data that it quicker to reuse, if not easier to reuse. So they've done lots of surveys of kind of data scientists who work exactly like this, trying to combine datasets to ask you questions and what they found is that they spend up to 80% of the time finding data, but more importantly, cleaning and combining datasets. So if you've already packaged your data and arrange it according to some community convention convention or domain convention, that makes it easier for them to load into something like in our program or a Python program or whatever program that that's relevant to the main you. So if you don't provide that additional level of meaning as supportive as you've captured, how can somebody actually reuse it? Starting social Sciences is to have a. Code book or data dictionary or some sort of minimal reporting requirements that you know. Partisan started working with us, but there are other very elaborated Zander technical solutions, particularly from the W3C the World Wide Web Consortium. And having broadly adopted in some specific areas, but they can be overwhelming for an individual researchers to grapple with, so again. So really, if you get if your data is fair, accessible, interoperable, hopefully it is reusable. So really, what format state, organization documentation, licensing would you want? And also just to find one, don't forget the researcher. Research integrity is another hot topic. This emphasis on the need for open science and the need for reproducible science, and I'm very aware that sometimes please choose the open, the open science and the data protection can be. And so just to talk a little bit about that so reproducible science. It's very much in the published literature, and it is is outlines the kind of concern that a methodological principle replication is being severely undermined at the kind of systemic level in research. And largely this is down to how we publish our publish results. For the researchers, but you're incentivized at a kind of emotional level 2 to publish in high impact journals and to get as many publications in Canada datasets that can lead to basically closing after data as opposed to the sharing of us to further of the research. Real thing and you can see it in terms of certainly the need for data stewardship. So these are some stats from the high level expert group on the European Open Science Cloud, and I know you be talking Bout funding tomorrow so this is a group that's looking at how your data across the board can have a better data infrastructure for science. So this in the UK context in the context of their research excellence framework, they've stated that they recognized as an equally valid form of research output, and that they were reward research environments that deliver Open Access to wider set of outputs and just Journal articles and conference papers locally. So not least favorite estimated at 6.7 billion is required to be invested in the European Open Science Cloud. Openness is expected, you know this is only expected to grow as a trend, so open is expected to be a key pillar in FP9, which is the funding platform coming after 2020. It's whatever is coming after his 2020.