As Michael said a few years ago already, more proactive steps to help learners negotiate known areas of difficulty to the point that they are now conceived as comprehensive writing tools. Today, the electronic medium. In addition, the alphabetical listing in the collocations from other entries results in quite different uses of the headward being juxtaposed with each other verb and noun uses of lemma such as show and support are listed together. And I think that collocations in learner learners dictionaries today are still unstructured data. The lists of collocations for the verb proof, for example, includes proof, somebody's guilt or innocence, prove one's manhood or masculinity, prove your loyalty, and prove your mettle. Non native writers can be seriously misled by this presentation of collocations are they are not given any help to decide which collocations are most appropriate in academic writing. So monolingual learners dictionaries are based on large reference corpora such as the British National Corpus, the Longman Corpus Network, or the Bank of English. The main objective of this paper is to investigate the usefulness of phraseological information in Electronic dictionary dictionaries, learner's dictionaries for academic writing, a jar that is of particular importance for non native students and researchers in academic settings. It targets a specific population, students and researchers. We need to write academic text in English and focuses on a specific set of recovery that may be useful to all of them. However, On the contrary, albeit and prepositions such as in spite of. Both collocations, an lexical bundles, collocations, and lexical bundles were carefully selected on the basis of a thorough analysis of the academic component of the British National Corpus. Discipline selection aims at providing users direct access to automatically extracted examples from user defined discipline specific corpora. So by clicking on any color kits or lexical bundle, the user gets access to you. The treatment of collocations in electronic learner's dictionaries, I think is still far from satisfactory. Aspart biggots. The access options provided by 4 phraseological units in the electronic versions have still not found an adequate balance between the para meters of quantity and quality. This should not only be used for nouns or highly frequent words, but also be available for other word categories such as verbs and adverbs. We do have all the relevant information in Word sketches from which the following examples were selected. Almost 15 years ago, parting down roads that Collocational normality is dependent on jar, register and style. What is normal in one kind of text may be quite unusual in another, however important the statement has still not found an echo in commercial pedagogical lexicography. Similarly, moons comments that particularly crucial is the function of phraseological information in relation to the needs and interests of the target. The business model of the monolingual learners dictionaries as A1 size fits all package, however, is probably dead, or at least seriously ill. I think it needs to reinvent itself to compete against all the new players, especially online, and I think that away ahead probably is more customization in terms of jar discipline. As they are an essential component of academic discourse, and I used to discuss matters lying at the very heart of the scholarly process. They also enable writers to modulate their ideas and position their work in relation to other members in the discipline. However, they create a minefield of difficulties for non native writers. And more generally, perhaps increasing use of specialized corpora in lexicography may help resolve the tension between the much cited function theory of lexicography and today's practical lexicography. That is, verbs of evidence. I selected only the 10 verbs in bold as they belong to the academic keyword list and you list of academic words that I developed and which contains 930 potential academic words that is worth that are reasonably frequent in a wide range of academic text, but relatively uncommon in other kinds of text, and which as such might be used to refer to those activities that characterize academic work. At the coding school, build advanced Learner's English Dictionary and the Macmillan English Dictionary for advanced learners. Assess their respective coverage of the most typical academic collocations in the corpus of academic Journal articles or cassia and 19 million word corpus of research articles published in peer reviewed journals using the sketch and Gene I extracted for the 10 selected verbs Word Sketch. Recall is commonly defined as the proportion of relevant materials retrieved, and precision is the proportion of retrieved materials that are relevant applied to dictionary look up. As such, I think that it can be used as a measure of how well a dictionary answers specific users needs.