What are the advantages and disadvantages of using them to represent image data while they drive to do is that they can capture structure in a manner that is invariant to changes in viewpoint. And the main disadvantage is that graphs, representations of image structure can be very fragile. There is the approach adopted by Wallace and Freeman, which is minimum message length and the approach adopted by rising and which is the minimum description length. Model parameters are simply a means to end, and the parameters are usually estimated in a maximum likelihood sense, and most often the prior on the parameters is taken as flat. Their alternatives, such as universal codes and predictive codes, and if you then try to contrast ML&MDL in terms of the coding scheme adopted MML uses two part codes models plus parameters, and MGL. The codes may be either one or. And in order to try to capture this probabilistically, what I'm going to do is to assume that there's a sample, they're observation model, and that is based on a Bernoulli distribution over the nodes and edges of the graphs appearing in my training sample. And so the ingredients here are going to be a set of graphs G from which I'm going to try to learn the structure and the model is going to be a super Graph prototype graph and correspondences with it. And then I'm going to rather than using the the solving approach in the previous tool. And then I'm going to have a correspondences between each sample graph. So according to the work that's been roided, the Bernoulli distribution leads to the probability distribution at the bottom of the page for the data sample given the model gamma and the correspondence with the correspondence with it S. So what you see is it's an exponential function of the correlation. And then the next ingredient is to try to write down the critic criterion of complexity for the learned adjacency matrix for the model graph and the idea here is to draw ideas from entropic measures of complexity. Model complexity initially increases after iterations it it decreases. So we've trained these models up separately on the different objects in our data set and then tried to find the nearest class prototype and so here is some experiments we compare here. MDL criterion with complexity, median graph and then learn super graph where we exclude the complexity term in the expectation maximization algorithm and you see it all the results. Try to cluster similar objects together and represent them using a class prototype and this class prototype for instance might be a median and this prototype could be learned using a dissimilarity measurements between graph structures. Paragraphs and that will give us an entropy H of GI, cross GJ, and then we subtract the average of the Von Neumann entropy of the two graphs. Correct, OK, so just to conclude, we've shown how super graph or generative model of graph structure can be learned using description length. It's difficult because graphs are not vectors, they don't naturally reside in a vector space. There's no natural ordering of the nodes and edges in a graph. So what's available in terms of generative models in the in the structural domain? The idea here was to try to define the probability distribution over a prototype structure. There, Markov models of the type developed by LEONARDIS and then of course I think there are also links with stochastic image image grammars as described by Zoo Mumford.