Actual check tomorrow is not only a researcher and professor at University of Indiana, she's also president of Slovenian National Committee for Promoting Women in Science and actually now he's standing in front of us as being director of National Institute of Biology of Slovenia. We had advanced evaluation system but science is still now considered as an expenditure and not as an investment in all. On all the Western European or let's say industrial countries and this change of the system did not improve social position for women at all and parental leave now is still mainly used by women. Although we are trying now to implement that also to men and I have to say that now there are men that are also using this. Some data later on, so in conclusion to this part in Slovenia, as in many former communist and socialist countries. There was a policy of early integration of women in workforce market and that let initially to relatively better situation that we had in the eastern countries of Europe then compared to other more industrial countries where women have in many countries not yet fully achieved. So also in the proportion of young or female researchers, for example, this is from 2003. So the success rate, specially in natural Sciences, is improving and exactly will soon become better. Also, as we've heard before, the membership in Slovene Academy of Sciences and Arts advising budding research covers, and these are all men dominated still and men like behavior is expected. What is really not a good except as I mentioned before, research institutes are doing better. Actually read at this institution your Steven Institute when I was a research assistant. In decision making, how to communicate? It's the same thing for life achievement. There were 13% to reach for excellence. So there is an advising body which is called the science and Technology Council at the government of the Slovenia and this is the composition even in Slovenia Research Agency there is no woman in a Research Council elected. An even more money. Even more in in future, so this is where the our National Committee is positioned that was established in 1990. I will skip that, but what I would like to, well, this legal acts are all OK. And this is not good anymore. And there are of course no specific resources that we would do the gender mainstreaming. As I said, we there is this inverse relationship between high tech development and the employment of women in a research and development means that well paid, powerful and prestigious positions are dominated by men, and this means that in perspective we and other European newcomers would. So for example, this National Committee for Women in Science is really working just on volunteer work of 1015 women, and so it's no money dedicated to. To really build the awareness and do the workshops and debates like we have today and positive measure I think are needed but very carefully and for a short period of time and then we need a family friendly legislation. And now I think we came to the end, and to conclude that there is a pool of highly sophisticated worker workforce records here, and these are undoubtedly highly educated women, women in science it could academia the SoC invested a lot of money. Um? During life and so nobody has all this knowledge in all these fields, but one can have a little bit of each of this kind of knowledge skills to become. So with this I will thank you for your attention. Director so, but the major quality for woman is really flexibility not to think only in terms of 1 discipline but many disciplines. Be good listener and this is what also women are. You have to remain a woman which is hard. The problem was at work. Now I'm switching to the other part of this talk, and this is the showing you the presentation that actually resulted from common efforts of all these ladies listed here, and some of them are member of our National Committee for four Complicated for enhancement of the role of women in Science, which I used to be chair, but I'm kind of. So what we presented was first that we wanted to present a broader societal environment and then give some figures of where we are at the moment. So we actually can divide our history into what happened before 1990 and what happened after that. The constitutional equal equality for men and women. And we got also a lot of the time legal acts that contributed to work, family harmonization. At that time there was a paid maternity leave, prolonged to a one year.