OK, so this is the length of the artery. OK, so from from the eigenvector from the Fiedler vector you could actually get an ordering and then if you compute the minimum length ordering cost you get this 184. And the length of the ordering is 173. OK, and then I introduce Slack variables. The minimum length ordering problem actually has an SDP based solution with an approximation factor of oh log squared N where N is the number of vertice is. But the good news over here is you could exploit the geometry of the embedding to handle the preference constraint to incorporate the preference constraints that we need. The empirical error term is actually shown in the in the in the first equation there. Empirical restaurant and of course I have the regularization term. But it's not difficult to see that the summons and empirical error terms are not convex. We need to have as few backward edges as possible in there with respect to the directed graph. Function that I'm trying to learn so should be smooth with respect to the undirected graph, right? So the first term is the empirical error term and the second term is a regularizer written in the form of inner products. I solve the optimization problem and then I factorize the gram matrix using incomplete color scheme method and then after that I project all the embeddings onto a randomly chosen unit vector and output the ordering. OK. Of course, the number of spreading metrics is actually exponential in number, but this problem admits a so-called separation Oracle using which you could. So that's One Direction. OK, so that is step function over there Sigma. So this ranking on graphs problem is very much related to the vertex ordering problems that you would find in the literature. Now the idea is we could generalize one of these vertex ordering problems an make it suitable for our problem at hand. The vertex ordering algorithms are unsupervised, so to say you only have the regularizer here, right? And in recent years in the machine learning literature, you will find that. I would not call it a spectral ranking IT security problem. OK. Alright, so before I get into the details of our algorithm, let's let's make a brief detour on graph based clustering.