APIs so API's, application programming interfaces define the protocol by which users can interact with database in algorithms, and they're widely present on the web, such as programmableweb, which is the most popular repository of APIs. Auto suggestion and value autosuggestion. The important feature, another important feature is the semantic annotation of the parimeter values themselves, so again, we use right now we use so identifiers.org and here you see that we have the parimeter name gene ID. For the end user annotator. So when the developer wants to annotate the response data type, the profiler opens within the editor itself and it checks the values from the keypath. Data type is automatically then added to your API description to your specification and. There are several challenges in these web API's. Another challenge is the lack of tools to semantically annotate APIs or use standardized identifiers to describe certain parts of your API. Given a gene, find other genes involved in the same pathway and find the candidate small molecules with these jeans as the perturbation targets. This in Alliance of Genome Resources which has. We provide this the SMART API specification which contains 54 API metadata elements to semantically annotate and describe your APIs. We provide the Smart API editor which is useful in the composition which enables semantic annotation and validation of your API metadata. And of course, provide the API descriptions as Jason Arity. College all the members of the NIH video Case API Interoperability Working group Michel Dumontier my Supervisor Shima Chanley Trish and everyone else were involved and this is still an ongoing working group. So to find APIs, well, currently there's a lack of the collection of useful, useful code data as well as documentation in one place. Learning curve in the integration of API's in applications which is another form of reuse. They cannot be really reused. We looked at all the different API, repository's, and specific specifications that are out there in the wild. Which is very widely used. We looked at the common metadata elements and the unique ones. How frequently is each of the element used? The API, the API, metadata level or service provider, Metadata API, operation metadata and Operation Parimeter an operation or response meta data. At the API metadata element level, we have the name. We have the access point, description, category at the service provider level. We have the responsible organization, the contact information funding the developer forum at the API operation level we have metadata elements such as the HTTP method keyword specifically for the operation. And importantly, for the Operation Para Meter and the operation response levels, we also added the parimeter type.