[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello everyone, I'm I'm ripoli so very. I'm currently a postdoc in the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands, and this work was done last year when I was at Stanford, and in fact since you saw so many contributions, this work is part of the NIH B2K, which is the big data to knowledge, working API Interoperability Working Group. And it's about smart.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
APIs so API's, application programming interfaces define the protocol by which users can interact with database in algorithms, and they're widely present on the web, such as programmableweb, which is the most popular repository of APIs. There is Bio Catalog, which caters towards APIs which are specifically in the bio domain and there is the Open API initiative which has a specification jazz. Tool to author APIs. And there is Sadie which is semantic automated discovery and integration web service, which aims to simplify the publication of services on the web. However, even though we have these repositories and specifications.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
There are several challenges in these web API's. First is the lack of rich metadata and this not only affects the creation of semantically rich APIs, but also affects the reuse or sharing annotations with on between other APIs. Another challenge is the lack of tools to semantically annotate APIs or use standardized identifiers to describe certain parts of your API. Because, well, authoring rich metadata is a tedious task, it's often unrewarding. And in turn this affects. The ability to automatically discover relevant or related API's. Because, well, finding APIs that are related to one another often requires a very specific, precise combination of matching keywords. And once discovered these APIs, the API outputs must be examined to see whether or not they can be connected to one another. So we looked at some of the.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Dated work catering to these challenges, one was about finding APIs. So to find APIs, well, currently there's a lack of the collection of useful, useful code data as well as documentation in one place. There is, in terms of reusing APIs and reusing can be in terms of the server functionality. It can be in terms of the client side code and also in terms of the interface. But sometimes these interfaces are designed from scratch and this heterogeneity in different API interfaces leads to a deep. Learning curve in the integration of API's in applications which is another form of reuse. And another challenge is the API annotations. Now we have the web service Description Language which however only allows the technical implementation, not really the functionality, and the code is generated automatically. So then once if the description changes, the program doesn't work and then you you can't use this in. Real time of course, the the Open API initiative tries to address that. However this swagger tool, this Swagger API, these APIs always annotated in isolation, so they're less interoperable. They cannot be really reused. In terms of descriptions, for automated clients, we looked at all the different. Standards that are out there. There is the semantic annotations for web, web Service description languages. However, this relies on remote procedure calls, and importantly, it requires very specific software to be used. There is HTML descriptions of API's address which are used which support composition of APIs, but again they require. You know additional software. That is the Hydra vocabulary which supports API Description, which was designed such that it supports. So if your description, but it does not directly support automated composition. So keeping all these challenges in mind, we.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So we aimed at creating the Smart API ecosystem whose aim is to make APIs fair. That is, make them findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable. And fair is a set of principles of where my supervisor, Michel Dumontier is part of which, which is of course catered towards data out there. But in our case it's to make APIs fair and smart API not only caters to the providers or the authors to. Oh, author intelligent data driven annotations but also to the API users by providing a web application to discover API's and how they connect to one another. So the idea is that the output of 1 API can be used as an input to another API and that is the aim of our smart API ecosystem.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
What did we do for the beginning? We looked at all the different API, repository's, and specific specifications that are out there in the wild. We looked at different repository's such as programmableweb, where, where it is a manual submission by the users. It has over 17,000 APIs which are annotated which are available and to search it there is a simple search mechanism with keywords. And there are several categories that the user can specify while an. Submitting their APIs to this repository. Bio catalog and elixers tools and data service registries mainly have API's cater cater towards the biological domain. Sadie's already mentioned contains over 15,000 services which are annotated. And we also looked at the specification, so as I mentioned, the Open API specification, which also contains which also provides a tool called the Swagger tool. Which is very widely used. It has over 10,000,000 downloads and it comes with its own specification, its own set of metadata fields to describe APIs, the minimal information about the software was project where they came up with a key set of minimal fields that can be provided to maximize the value, and describing a software. We looked at schema.org. API reference all the metadata elements that they suggest to describe API's and there was a prototype of this project. So what we did is we looked at each of these repository's and specifications. We looked at how they did.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Scribe, the APIs which meta data.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Elements, do they use? We looked at the common metadata elements and the unique ones. Also, we looked at the coverage of each metadata element in the repository. How frequently is each of the element used? We looked at the cardinality, the data type if it was specified and importantly, the strength of recommendation recommendation was that required? Was it recommended? Was it optional? And as a result of our survey.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So we came up with a set of 54 meta data elements that can be used to describe APIs, and we divided them into five categories. The API, the API, metadata level or service provider, Metadata API, operation metadata and Operation Parimeter an operation or response meta data. This survey is available online, but the link is in the paper, so if you look at that you will see a matrix of all these different API metadata elements and as part of this interoperability working group, we looked at each metadata element and determined whether it must should, may or even not be included in our specification. So let's look at some examples.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
At the API metadata element level, we have the name. We have the access point, description, category at the service provider level. We have the responsible organization, the contact information funding the developer forum at the API operation level we have metadata elements such as the HTTP method keyword specifically for the operation. And importantly, for the Operation Para Meter and the operation response levels, we also added the parimeter type. The parameter value type and response data type, which is really important in capturing so that these APIs can be interoperable and the ones marked in bold are the ones that are not in the open API specification. So as a result of ourselves, we found 19 more. Metadata elements which we recommend to be used to describe API's. And these elements are published as.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
At this URL and you will find the strength of recommendation, the cardinality data type, an examples along with the corresponding open API element for each. Now this was about the specification. The metadata elements that can be used to describe your API's.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Also, we have an editors. This is what the Smart API ecosystem looks like, which is also open source and Shima Dos. Type and John Lee Woo developed this so it looks pretty much similar to the Swagger editor, the Swagger API. And on the left we have the. Panel to create an API document on the right it renders the document. It suggests the Smart API or metadata elements that should be used and it allows interaction with the API in this editor. Um, it gets validated against the Smart API specification. Of course. It's in Jason, and once an API developer annotates API using the Smart API specification, they publish it to our Smart API registry, which I will explain later and all the API documents are indexed using identifiers.org and provided through an HTTP API. And one of the interesting useful features of this is that using tornado we have an auto suggestion service which suggests metadata fields as well as values to an API developer who's newly annotating the API's. So this is.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
What does Swagger Editor looks with the open API validation and?

[377.0s - 406.0s]
This is our Smart API editor and like I said, the features of this are feel.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Auto suggestion and value autosuggestion. So what that means is that for a metadata element. The editor sends HTTP requests to our API registry or the API specification and auto suggests the metadata fields that should be used along with the frequency with which that element and the value has already been used from our registry. So this enables the annotation of course, enables much easier annotation for the developer. And by reusing the existing values, it makes them more standardized. Make some more interoperable. Um?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The important feature, another important feature is the semantic annotation of the parimeter values themselves, so again, we use right now we use so identifiers.org and here you see that we have the parimeter name gene ID. We have a description for it. When we say that this is an input parameter and then when the developer is writing the parimeter value type, you get all the URLs from identifiers.org along with the frequency with which it's already been used. So your we have gene, so it's suggesting NCBI gene from identifiers.org and this helps in an Ant suggestions. For the end user annotator. So like I said, not only do we semantically annotate the parimeter values, but we also annotate the response data types and.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
For which we have the Smart API profiler which is developed by Trish Whetzel from T2 laps, and it's a web service integrated within the editor. So when the developer wants to annotate the response data type, the profiler opens within the editor itself and it checks the values from the keypath. Of the API being profiled and fetches matches based on identifiers.org again and if no string matches are found, the sample values are checked against regex patterns and suggestions for the class or the type are again given suggestions. So once the annotator. The API developer. Looks up this web service and finds all the URLs from identifiers.org to. Annotate their response.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Data type is automatically then added to your API description to your specification and. It's added under the response data type and as a result this also makes it more standardized. Um, so now that we. And now that we have this.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Tool to annotate the API's. When the user clicks on publish it gets stored into this. We call it the Smart API registry and we provide a faceted search and filtering over these over this repository to make it more findable. To make it more accessible and.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So this is just a detailed example of one of those API's, so you can see the identifiers or the input types, the response types and what's not shown here. You can even open the specification for this particular one if you click on opening the editor in the Smart API editor. Also. This this we provide using Elasticsearch and. Each time the annotator or the API developer Annotates API version of it is stored in this registry. Um?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So just look at one of the example use cases where Charlie Wu and Raymond Tarrant from the University of Miami I'm working on is considered a query. Given a gene, find other genes involved in the same pathway and find the candidate small molecules with these jeans as the perturbation targets. Now the challenge here is to answer this query it's you need. It cannot be answered by one API. One API is not sufficient to answer this query. Which wich start we have the migene.info API which is already annotated, which will of course give you the input gene. It will give you the pathway that genus involved in and it will give you a list of all the genes involved in that pathway. However. Oh so so. Our use cases now linking these two different APIs. The other APIs, the National Institute of Health Library, which of integrated cellular networks which provides this information about bioassay data sets for both small molecules and biological performance. And now, because we have the output of the ign.info API annotated, we can use that. As an input for the links API, NIH links API to answer this query. Of course, the challenge here is to make sure that the identifiers from each different source is annotated accordingly, and we don't. We are currently working on even integrating more data.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Sets or more APIs into this registry so that we can have a linked set of different APIs. So for example, just like mine gene.infowehavemyvariant.info, which is another API which stores information from different datasets about gene variants and that that my variant.info has over a million requests in the last 30 days. So it's a really highly used API. And our work is now not only restricting it to linking, you know one or two APIs, but to make it applicable in many different use cases, such as now we have Members in the API Interoperability Working Group from the Rat Genome Database as B2K Picture API, which in fact has multiple heterogeneous patient level data. This in Alliance of Genome Resources which has. Data from 6 different databases. So that was the idea.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Behind Spot API and our contributions are fourfold. We provide this the SMART API specification which contains 54 API metadata elements to semantically annotate and describe your APIs. We provide the Smart API editor which is useful in the composition which enables semantic annotation and validation of your API metadata. The Smart API profile or which automatically annotates the API para meter and or response data types with again semantic identifiers and we have this smart API registry where one can submits browses, searches and API descriptions and obtains can obtain field specific metadata suggestions. So it's.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
After work we are now looking at upgrading our specification to the newest version of the Open API specification, which is recently been published and of course export our functionality to align to other repositories so that when one annotates APIs using the Smart API specification can also be compatible with, let's say programmableweb or any other API repository's. And of course, provide the API descriptions as Jason Arity. Right now it's only in Jason and improve the registry interface so that it's easier to find. Related APIs I would like to of course.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
College all the members of the NIH video Case API Interoperability Working group Michel Dumontier my Supervisor Shima Chanley Trish and everyone else were involved and this is still an ongoing working group. So if you are interested and would like to be a part of it, you can come in contact me and that's it. Thank you and I'd be happy to take some questions.
