I think of Human Genetics and I also work at the Papa Gino's centered video and I'll discuss the some of the things that I do there. So this is a new project for me, but you'll see hopefully it actually gives some ideas of other application of machine learning into this area of functional genomics. I work with what I'm really interested in, which is studying gene regulation and evolution. Just to explain what functional genomics is all about, think about the fact that the computer scientists in the room think about the fact that every cell in your body is the same at the level of the genome. So sequencing the human genome. So in this project we sequenced 100 tumors in 100 control. Easier mutations in genes we can look. I will talk about that one this much, just to say that it's much more powerful than microarrays, because microarrays is really. That's not really the data that we'll be looking at in the rest of the presentation, so. If you look at how much the sequence of the Genome Center, 300 trillion bases, or that's what we estimate that we can sequence this year. It is actually called the International Human Epigenome Consortium. I thought I'd give you really an example of some of the work that we've been doing using machine learning, and this is really weird by to be talking in my lab that has just recently joined working with. Saying this, is that there's really different types of profiles. This is more than 10 years ago, down when the human genome was sequenced. He selected 7 version, largely Nunes, but again, this was done in different cell types in different individuals for different marks because. But so having this this large benchmark data set allowed us to compare the performance of different peak callers, and I think I'm pretty objective way this case. Appear to be intended for the annotator. You'll get the model like cheese minimum error after just annotating four or five of these large regions. I was more than easy problem. I'd say I'm talking to take out pizza infection, but as I mentioned in the intro, the real question that we'd like to ask is, can we identify genetic variants to have an impact on the. These are converted into intensity files, but those are still quite significant. You know every week 300 terabytes worth of data that needs to be bring from abroad down to 215 terabytes. 30 to 50, probably 50% of their genome is actually repeats, and it's not so clear what what that. So if you look at the human genome. Whether this is just something parasite in ordeal, or whether it was really doing something. But if you look in the UNIDO. 28% of those binding sites were likely repeat. We expect the genes to be expressed in the same way in the same condition and we expect the binding sites that are regulator to be the same. So you know starting from from sequencing the human genome. Digital Perspective predicts high functionality throughout genomes with traces of degradation, adding accumulated since the curve that God lays on them. There's a lot of new regulatory sites that are different between human and mouse. So whether it's genetic disorders that are associated with specific mutations or cancer sequencing. This is. It is involves using sequencing to look at medallion disease and that you know many common and alien disease like cystic fibrosis and so on. So trying to make decisions and give advice on whether this is something that was part of the failure. Actually, as I think as parents and helps you understand the you know what happened and sensual risk.