[0.0s - 29.0s]
So don't go so thank you very introduction and thank you for the invitation. Very happy to be here to participate in the summer school. So I would mention I actually worked. So I work at McGill University. I think of Human Genetics and I also work at the Papa Gino's centered video and I'll discuss the some of the things that I do there. Just.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So in terms of outline, but I'll talk about today, so there's really three main sections or so before bullet points for the first 2 are really just like some introduction on the topic of what I actually work going, which is functional genomics. Given that this is a study school on machine learning, I thought that I could discuss one particular application that we've been working on recently. So this is a new project for me, but you'll see hopefully it actually gives some ideas of other application of machine learning into this area of functional genomics. Looking at the schedule and know that you'll have other talks coming out, especially tomorrow or the day after on functional genomics. But they feel see, hopefully through this introduction already. Some some ideas of some of the problems and challenges associated with functional genomics. After that, at the end I'd like to talk about a little bit. An example really from my lab. I work with what I'm really interested in, which is studying gene regulation and evolution. The role that transposable elements in particular hasn't in this context, so quite an array of things. Feel free to stop me and ask questions as I as I do alone, so just to set the stage, so I said that I work at the genome center at the field. Yesterday and yesterday's talks you were hearing a little bit about big Data. So just for fun trying to guess how many bases of DNA which sequence the genome center is. Numbers. Millions of faces of people. More. Enter that. Well, so I mean human genome itself is 10 to the nine, right? So it's so pretty billion base pairs. OK, I give you a hint. So we sequence roughly 3000. Human genome is center. But also remember that you know when you sequence human genome, you can't just sequence them once you actually have to pile up. The reason top of them, so actually.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
If you look at how much the sequence of the Genome Center, 300 trillion bases, or that's what we estimate that we can sequence this year. If you look actually so was mentioning the production that I moved in 2010. This has nothing to do with me moving to the deals at the Genome center actually existed since 2001, but on this scale you can't see anything right? This really, really, once we start, so we actually have 12 or 15 now. Through the IC systems I it's only since we have those instruments that really did like I on this scale can actually see the love with sequencing. Again, I'm not going to.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Talk too much about this. I assume a lot of this is is is familiar with many of you, but just to get the center stage, little bit that gives some idea of the area and in the place where I work. If you look at, you know this is now loose. This is more than 10 years ago, down when the human genome was sequenced. It cost is very high obviously. Now if you were interested in giving your own genome sequence, you can send samples or given samples. Now I guess, but check of two or three $1000 roughly and we could actually sequence your gene. Hi, it's really. It's really getting more and more affordable. So as an introduction I thought I'd talk about something the applications of why we do these instruments and this sequencing power. I guess that comes with these new instruments.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Given that many of you know our computer scientists, I thought I'd give a bit more details on the size of these datasets. This let's you know I do a lot of research, but part of what I do? You know, being directed by chromatics, there's they actually started. Point awake with Dylan management. All of this data that comes on to the platform. So if you look currently at how much data these instruments generate? It comes off of the instrument. We don't even worry or look at the image files. These are converted into intensity files, but those are still quite significant. So each instrument that takes that takes a couple weeks to run and this is getting shorter now. It's closer to paint, things generates something in the order of 20 terabytes of an entity files. Those need to be processed and then reduced to much smaller one terabyte. But this is if you have one instrument. Now imagine having 15 of these instruments. You're generating this is again roughly on your. You know every week 300 terabytes worth of data that needs to be bring from abroad down to 215 terabytes. So so you know when you hear big data in the context of genomics, this is really what we mean by that. So this of course adds up to significant amounts of files and sequence files, and with that. So you still haven't done anything. All you've done is this is generated the sequence.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So just to finish on these, the size of these datasets, if you look, yeah, I'll get back to a problem. I studied at similar to this. Um, assume that you're interested in cancer cancer project where you're doing cooking and sequencing. It's still expensive study to do something like this compared 500 two more particular time to 500 normal samples, but it's definitely within reach, so problems like that definitely in terms of costs are doable. But then you end up having to compare. Basically, 125 terabytes of data to another 125 terabytes of data and find differences. They see right side, so you don't really do that on your laptop for sure, so it's quite quite a challenge. But so I mean, if you're curious, I'd be happy to. Answer Questions or talk more.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
This but. You know, I really wanted to talk more about the applications and what we can do with this. So the most most obvious application of sequencing is to sequence genomes. So you know starting from from sequencing the human genome. And the sequencing on the model Organism that gave us some ideas of thought. The genes in these different organisms, and so on too. Reaching out to extremely know trying to understand. You know how config. Live in this type of environment to projects like genome 10,000 K where now the challenge is not so much the sequencing and the cost of sequencing of genome is $2000 or something of the size of human. Smaller is easier. The challenge with problem through with project like this is more collecting all the genomes if you want. If you're interested in, it's really sort of serve adding a good survey of the tree and also the downstream analysis and what you're actually going to be doing with this data. So assembling the genome and interpreting the genomes, this is a much bigger challenge that sequencing which was, you know, just a few years ago, five years ago. That was quite different. The imitation is the cost of sequence, but. But this is, I guess the most obvious. And not really with most of these instruments, and spending their time off. So I'd say that the vast.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Authority of the applications and maybe 80% of the sequencing of the center really falls into this area of application, which is ginori sequencing projects, so it's not so much sequencing genomes in some cases that is very interesting, but we're especially interested in using sequencing to look at diversity diversity within humans. Of course, with projects like 1000 genome projects, but. But also characterizing in detail of disease. So whether it's genetic disorders that are associated with specific mutations or cancer sequencing. So again, all of this derives from the human beetle, or interested in characterizing the differences between and hopefully using that information to treat patients better or to develop neutrons and so on. This is. Important in the context of human applications, but it's also very important in the context of various other domains, so agricultural crops, for instance. There's a lot of efforts now. More and more actually where the the applications of genomics and sequencing are going beyond just human application and you're interested in trying to see whether you can read that characterizing and diversity in different different types of problems is interested in violence and so on. Yesterday we got examples of bio so really characterize December City so so hold range about.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So. 11 project. Since that time I've been involved with. It is involves using sequencing to look at medallion disease and that you know many common and alien disease like cystic fibrosis and so on. You know the gene that was mutated. That was the underlying cause and can identify because it was common enough. But there were many other suspected mandalia disorders. Where it was so rare that. People just didn't have families big enough to actually drill down and identify what was the underlying cost. But with next generation sequencing suddenly in this paper, which was a review from a few years ago. You know, we're sort of trying to predict what would happen and they were very optimistic. He saying that soon probably will be able to really identify the mutations associated with the whole collection of these rare phenotypes. Rare disease. And then you get back to another time. I was very, very encouraging. I know that so that you don't center. We were involved in the project following those lines exactly in Canada, where again, all of these patients had already been characterized. Identified your parents that are that are normal. Suddenly have a child with a very obvious condition, but the underlying cause of that condition is not known. How so you can imagine these parents wanting to know in these are rare disease. They did like fully and there's not unfortunately probably not much that can be done, but they like to know whether they can have other kids. Whether this was something that was in their genome they passed on and they were unlucky, or was this a new mutation? So trying to make decisions and give advice on whether this is something that was part of the failure. So there were many such families or many such cases that have been. Already collected are identified, but until this technology came along there was just no easy way to. No. What was the underlying cost, Ann? I don't have this device that talk about this or show this, but out of the 250 cases like that when they did excellent sequencing, they were able to identify 150 case where they found in rotation. So more than 50% of these kids that he had these these rare condition genetic conditions that were unable to pinpoint exactly what's the mutation that was associated with that condition. Again, I mean it's not necessarily a cure, but it gives you an. I mean, you learn community. It's great, and for a number of things it's great because, as I said, helps you to. Actually, as I think as parents and helps you understand the you know what happened and sensual risk. If you had other kids. And it's also great in the sense that you do learn quite a bit about the biology of some of these diseases in some case. You know, in some case you can also improve the liquid that condition.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
By knowing what it looks in the night off. The other film, so this was. What examples applying sequencing to medallion and disease another very area where quite a bit this sequencing is taking place. And again I'll get back to an example that did some of that. It's really doing cancer genome sequencing.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Cancer is a disease of the genome where suddenly you're accumulating patiens. Whether there are point mutations in the genome or you've got hold of each of their, you've got translocations, and so on. Again now that you know there was all sorts of assays that allow you to probe different aspects of this, but nothing like what we can do now, which is to just seek with the whole tumor. So the idea again is that.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And it looks simple like this, but the idea that you sequence and this is just a genome browser viewer zooming in on one particular region of the genome, you get the tumor at the top, and you've got. You get the normal sample from the same individual in the bottom and you identify mutations. So, so this is. I'm talking about this example in particular because I'll get back to it. She looked at it this way and there's relatively easy. Yeah, there's quite a bit of data processing in the background, but the biggest challenge is not so much a data processing. The biggest challenge is the interpretation, because here we've got one. Mutate continues, there's one mutation here. We need. If you've done all of your analysis correctly, you get from regions like this that are different between the tumor. And normal, but the problem is that there are hundreds if not thousands of those mutations and the challenge is really to identify which of these mutations are important because in cancer in particular you'll have, as I said, thousands of thousands of mutations. And what you know, what we're looking for are recurrent mutations in the mix. Or that's why in the example that I gave five point comparing 500 of tumors of particular types. Another one hope is by having large numbers of tumors of a particular type we can find. Patterns I guess of recurrent mutations for reason. But and I'll get back to that. But even if you find recurrent mutations and you're still left it quite, a number of augmentations potentially to interpret an. And now let you know I'm getting to the next area of applications with just functional genomics. The other level that we need is information about what that particular mutation might become. So it's not enough to find the mutation. It's not enough necessarily defined indications that are happening in a way that's recurrent, although you know that's that's a good start. Rule is also to be able to decode which interpret these variances. In. You know, I talked a bit about this example of Mendelian disease and genetic disorders. This wasn't whole genome sequencing that was excellent sequencing, so there we were only sequencing the keys. And when we see mutations in gene were much better at interpreting what those mutations won't be doing, the challenges when we detect mutations outside of jeans. Then then it's much harder to actually trigger, yes? Cancer. Individuals, so if you. Two men so. Depends which cancer so. And but definitely, I mean if you have large enough numbers, you'll start seeing patterns and but the more complex the cancer and some cancer involve the environment in both lower pulse or some other things. In those cases, it's usually much more challenging to find your current. Explain a large fraction of the tumors. One area where we did this type of approach though, where it was very successful. These pediatric cancer imagine like so that particular case was brain tumors. Again, you've got parents that are normal and tell me they have a kid and two years after its four, he has a tumor. You know this is not like smoking and lung cancer, right? This is there's something special happening and in that particular gagement since they did detect user particular pathway that was mutated in 50% of those pieces. But it's it's about money. I think the gene is specific gene in this case was mutated in 25% of those it was the same mutation. Specific video specific change in the histone. So clearly probably that Gene Wilder gene clearly is very important in brain development, but it was. And then there's probably a weakness, I guess in the genome such that that part of the mutation is more frequent, and if you're unlucky and you hit it and you're almost guaranteed to develop that type of cancer, but that I mean, there's a few cases like that where it's it's really there is recurrence, and that's great because. The good thing about like good things like drink, but the good thing about these representations are recurrences that there's hope that you can actually target that pathway, or that G and do something when it's all over the place. That's another challenge in the context of all compacted. I mean I worked. We worked on the project on kidney cancer and there is much more complex. And then there's also not. But, you know, it's a tradeoff. It's also much more common, and so if you make it. Golfing with his eyes and big problems, it's good, but anyway. So I was skeptic because I had initially worked on breast cancer and kidney cancer, but there are certain type if you sort of can isolate and really reduce that to full genius disease, then there's hope for Treasury currency. I don't computer scientist that I sure had. So if I analyze the tumor on one particular person, do I see 1000 patients? Yes, one person. This is 1 big person and then you follow. That's right. So it depends on the type of cancer. But that's generally true because a lot of times for the tumor to start growing the repair machinery and everything has to go, and so you're gradually accumulating typically a lot of mutations that are not doing anything. You're just one of the first things that gets hit in cancer. Is this repair mechanism and protection against mutation so it's grabbing me and two more sets of different persons, he said. Agreement about limitations are so, so that I mean, that's what we look for in. Sometimes there is sometimes like P. 53 famous protein that's involved in cell death and so on, and then respond to damage. Something that in many cancers are being paid in more often than anything else, and then specific cancer. Sometimes as specific gene like the one I was describing in brain development that have these higher rates of mutations. But that's why we need large cohorts and start doing sequencing and another challenge compared to some of the genetic Association studies that were done in the past for other diseases that in cancer every December tour is different since it's. We cannot. He cannot serve. Checks you don't know where the mutations might be, right? They're going to be sort of random, so you have to see things in this case.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So. A lot of the works now and then. This third I guess type of application. In many ways is really to twin form the cancer sequencing projects and genetic studies and so on. If they have to do it, they're using the same platform of sequencing, but now not so much to characterize the genome itself, but how the genome is activated, right so? Anything yet so? Just to explain what functional genomics is all about, think about the fact that the computer scientists in the room think about the fact that every cell in your body is the same at the level of the genome. But if you look clearly skin cell is not the same as a blood cell. So even though the Venona manual and every cell is the same, the way it actually is activated, the jeans that are transcribed, the regions of the genome that are accessible, all of that is different in different cells. And it's at some level stable though, because it's in itself doesn't become the blood cell, so there's ability in this. But every cell type at some level is different from the other cell phone, so this is what we call functional genomics or looking at the epigenome. So here we're not interested in just a genetics were interested in how genetics is actually translated into gene expression into. This is chromatin Accessibility, so where you know you've got all of these regulatory proteins that are found, I guess I have those along this line.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So. The genome is not static that we know you've got the jeans on, buried somewhere around and around those jeans. Are you information about when should you turn on this particular gene? So the 2% of the genomes are the gene and get a 98% is the code that basically responds to signals from the environment to turn on and off different genes. So this is gene regulation. The actual configuration of the genome. Another word for the different ways of saying this, but another word productive that caused the creation of the genome is really the epigenome. At this cribb's, the state in which the genome is might have jeans that are active in government, but in the same way we currently have. Regulatory modules that this is really what activating proteins recognize that from the genome to actually activate internal organs. Is this clear? I mean, I don't know how much OK. So.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So sequencing the human genome. In some ways was easy because this is this is looking at the fake here of the assembly. This is sort of a good snapshot of what we knew in 2006, so in 2006 if you look at the UCSC Genome browser, this is looking at a particular chromosome. You know most of what we knew at that time was the sequence itself. Along these chromosomes, by then we were quite good at knowing where the genes protein coding genes, where we're still discovering new jeans. But still the majority of jeans and that people have diversified because you can not only sequence of DNA, but it also sequenced the RNA that's been in sequence. But this was still more or less the expense. I have little news, so we need the location of the team.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
I said that I come back to this and this address is a little in your question, so this is a project that we did. This is actually a collaboration with the European project. This is like HKD Kidney project, so that was most of the sequencing for this project was actually done here in France at the CNG. So in this project we sequenced 100 tumors in 100 control. We did spend quite a bit of time just doing the easy part that I mentioned, which took us two years, something which was too. Segmentations in this data set with confidence, so you see that we detected needs 100 tumors over half a million mutations. So lots and lots of mutations if you ask me the question how many of those were recurrent? Very shoot? I mean all we can say is that there's a few genes that had a higher rate of mutations in the expected and the majority of those actually were already known, or so that wasn't so great. But there were other things interesting about this study that I'm not going into, but the point that I wanted to make is that in that particular study, again, all that vast majority of these mutations fall outside of genes, as you would expect, even that most of these are probably random occasions, you only have a small fraction of those mutations that are falling into the genes of that small fraction. It's much easier to annotate them because of these 6000 mutations again. Easier mutations in genes we can look. We know some of those genes we can look for again, whether they're recurrent, we can look at the effect that the mutation has on the gene sequence, so some of them truncated gene right? So if you have a mutation that's synonymous or nonsynonymous so you can have it communication, that's nonsynonymous. That's truncating the gene is of course that allows us to prioritize without within that 6000 and say, oh, this one is probably. Or interesting or more important, but so basically in the end those are different stations that we idolize. The rest, we still don't really know where and how to make sense out of it. So still quite a lot of work.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So, but the approaches of functional genomics hopefully will help us annotate those those other mutations too, because again, going back to this blog post transcriptional regulation if you knew not just wear the jeans were but where these regulatory modules are. If we detected mutation in one of these, then we'd be able to prioritize that. The maybe this one is more important for us. Here is the code outside of the. The code outside of the genes is really what we're actually. So I'm getting to the functional genomics product into the application. This is a long introduction aids. So some of the applications of the sequencing approaches to characterize how the deal is used. This is one of them. So this is chromatin in universe imitation. So in this approach we're interested in where specific proteins. So we're interested in safety 53. The protein we know that P. 53 is is a transcription factor that goes in different places in the genome. To activate genes that are associated with self defense. So, so we know that you can see three does that, but we don't know where does it go on the genome in different contexts. So this particular approach actually works by pulling fragments of DNA using an antibody that are associated with the shape. So you get a pool of DNA instead of sequencing all the DNA in that cell randomly, you just sequence the DNA fragments that are bound by P. 52. So how so this strategy is that you and and this is particularly important, as in Apple, because this is really the data that will be using for the methods that I'll talk about. So so again with this approach does is that you enrich for a particular region of the genome of interest, but there's a region that's bound my PC three or region of the genome that has a specific epigenetic mark. You get a pool of fragment that are enriched for that. And then you Mount them all back to the genome and you get a signal that looks something like this and within that peaks like these correspond to the signal to the regions that are found by the deal with it by the protein of influence.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
This is another complication that falls into functional genomics, which is just sequencing of transcriptome. I will talk about that one this much, just to say that it's much more powerful than microarrays, because microarrays is really. Hypothesis driven in the way you had Crohn's associated to different regions of the genome, and then you check whether they were expressed RNA sequencing issues. This sequence PR days and that's really it, was quite a number of surprises came out of that. Just seeing what actually physics Prince when I won't talk about that so much because.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
That's not really the data that we'll be looking at in the rest of the presentation, so. What I wanted to show you a little bit is is the amount of you know there's only one genome. When you can do it up to some various threads of people, very little from one another. The challenge with an asset like this. Chip sequencing is that there is lots and lots of transcription factors you might be interested in DTC three, but you might be interested in in estrogen receptor. If you're sitting breast cancer, or you might be interested in off, or if you're in stem cells, so there's there's over 1000 proteins that interact in the day, or just estimated, and so you can imagine doing experiments for all of those thousand proteins. But you know, it's more than that because you have, as I said, every cell type or every condition, maybe changes where the protein goes. So you've got, you know, again, a large number of different cell types of different conditions, where you might be interested in looking at where is P53. If there is, you know if I get a sunburn or something like that, right? There's a change where P53 coves in the genome. If it recognizes this type of damage for that, so you really have quite a lot of conditions and click a lot of things you might be interested in improving, so nobody filling this. This table is this is a gigantic task, and then you haven't. Well just to show you.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
It looks like you know this is the same region. Appear the gene that I showed you before. From 2006, but now every every role is basically one of these datasets where we've looked at. I think this is not protein bound. DNA is the signal of accessible DNA, so this is a similar type of data, but not exactly the same, But same idea. So we're looking at the activity on the genome in different condition. You see that there is clear patterns you've got a region like this one that's always accessible. And then you've got other regions that sort of pop up in specific conditions. But but now I think we're we're getting close to much closer to where some of the machine learning approach is that you guys are studying might be very pertinent. Obviously there's really quite a bit of data and in one challenge is to. Again, as I said, sort of make predictions of what what variance in the genome might cost. So we want to be able to annotate. Asians have. These mutations that we detected specific because studies like the cancer study I mentioned and be able to say, well, some of these indications are probably more damaging than ever. Todd. When I say.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So. One of one of the projects that we're involved with. It is actually called the International Human Epigenome Consortium. So, thinking back about this grid that I mentioned when challenges that you know nobody can do all of these experiments. So, so there's been a number of followups after the Human Genome Project. After the first sequencing of the human genome. We had this consortium to look at human variations, so this was the halftime project. Looking at different and how much we vary between your individuals. Following that was the ENCODE project. ENCODE Project is also US based project. They started this map mapping of all of these transcription factors in as many cell types as they could. This was the 1st generation of that project where lots of datasets were generated. This was followed later by another US project called the 1008 program. Anne. All of these projects and all of this data is now then regroup within an international consortium is called its International Human Needle Epigenome Consortium, where every country so many countries now are involved. So so Canada is involved. But there's also a European project, and there's a German project in the Japanese and Korean projects. I think so far, and the idea is to try to fill that grid with as much data as possible. So that in ways that are going to make the datasets comfortable if possible. Try to. Works. Speak. So one of the things we think that conversion that we've been doing is one challenge is to actually find this data because there's so much data coming from different places that you know it becomes harder given that they were all in different consortia. So one of the things that we've been working on is sort of find ways to navigate in, sort of zoom in and say I'm interested in muscle cells as I just did, and suddenly you get from the different consortium whether it's. Road map or encode either some of the data we generated. He couldn't get access to all of these data, so you can select specific datasets is the big marks. And in view and navigate piece he said yeah, that the challenge result at some level just a data management is a challenge because you've got data being generated by different people. But more than that of course, just in the analysis and what you do with that data also will be a challenge. Again this. Not really looking at it with too much detail, but this provides it.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Way to navigate these functional genomics data. I. So. OK.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Long introduction. What I so? Ideas and I'll talk about the specific example that we're interested in looking at this, but before that I thought. Top enough biology and next generation sequencing. I thought I'd give you really an example of some of the work that we've been doing using machine learning, and this is really weird by to be talking in my lab that has just recently joined working with. Before, so I'm very happy to to have him look at some of.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Datasets with me so, so here's here's the here's the problem that we've been looking at. So one thing that I talked a bit about these chips, see profiles in the context of we're interested in either protein. This is not looking at where proteins are bound. This is looking at specific histone marks, so specific. DNA modification. And are typically associated with regulation so. These are the signals that we get from sequencing lots and lots of fragments and mappings, and bad if we look at these profiles, it's quite visually, it's quite clear where the peaks and where the signals are, and this is a known problem which many people have looked at already and all sorts of different things. You know, how do you actually identify the peaks in this type of signal? But I'm showing this example to show that it's. Even though it's relatively, you can imagine all sorts of algorithms that do this quite well. There's there's some case where it's a little bit trickier because signals are not necessarily always very narrow. API keys like this, so you've got PT singles, or you sometimes also have these broader types of peaks, or broader signal, and there it becomes less clear, sometimes where the peaks actually start and end. So another way.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Saying this, is that there's really different types of profiles. You've got profiles at these narrow peaks, you have profiles that have some as of March are much broader. There's I didn't go over this, but there's many different tools that can call peace efficiently. Tell you where these peaks are. But there's parameters set in, yet it's not so clear necessarily was the best color and how to set those parameters. So.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So one approach is to is and just follow some of the previous work up. Toby was doing in one of the labs here and involves visual limitations. How? So again, I'm using some Adobe slides here and you do it much better job than me is present things parts of this, but some of some of the work in doing this, for instance. So thinking about for instance face recognition, which is a difficult problem where you actually train the algorithm based on annotations of where faces are in this data is actually then used to train. Prediction algorithms to recognize and identify people in pictures. This is 1 one large area where this is used. Another area closer to the type of functional genomics data that we're talking about is. Those with high throughput images, again, by actually visually I mean the human eye is actually very good at identify some of these patterns and my. Identifying these platters and classifying them and then training on them, you can really build powerful tools to do. They can then do that automatically. So one of the project that Toby was working on that's actually not getting quite similar to what I'll be talking about. Is this thing and the project where these profiles are not cheap SQL files? These are sequencing depth, so this is when you do whole genome sequencing and you just look at the depth. One problem is to identify a copy number changed and that problem turns out to be actually quite challenging and without going into the details this was one of those projects. For these reasons, here was to actually train and that over to call copy number. Using this type of visual limitations now, so I'll talk more in details in what we've done now with the chip, see.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So the idea is that again will visually will provide some annotation. From looking at these types of profiles and then we'll train. Model on this and try to optimize and evaluating different product key color. So you know, in some case, again, looking at it, it's not exactly clear where the peak start, but we can say there's definitely a pika started somewhere over here. There's clearly a feat that ends somewhere over here. Wow.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
There's no peak in this other stuff. I should have said that this is 1 particular cell type, while all of these are replicas in different individuals, better cell phone. So these were all done in T cells. But it's part of the highest cost. Actually, not just doing one, replicating, proving that particular some type, one of the things we are now doing is actually doing it in multiple individual and one of the reasons that does not just to have replicates to have on the signal, but it's an I'll get back to that. It's also to try to identify differences in these profiles between individuals or something. But I'll get back to that. But again, the idea is that using this. Actually, the business we find says with this app. No, so this is just so this is just one region in the cleanup and this is a snapshot of a particular time. So we're just you know you've got much bigger size of the region, but this is probably a few kilobases. 50 kilometers, so this is 100 kilobases region and you're looking at. Again, just different conditions. Each roll is a different individual is different experiment, but we don't consider time. Yes, I had one person once. You are yet to all the sensitive segmentations. Often they also vary with it so well here these are noncash yourself. This is normal individuals taking blood cells in cancer at the another level of complexity because all the cells are not identical. Here, we assume that all the cells for normal cells, normal blood cells or T cells comparing the motor size of comparing different cell types of normal individuals. Flip. But we will be interested in. I'll give that back to that later. We will be interested in sometimes this particular individual, for instance, might happen mutation or not, invitation for the variance. Or is she know way different than the next person and some point will want to get. That's why we're generating these data to try to link those variances changes in the program. So he.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Is just another similar version I mean. The assumption is that. You know, in normal individuals all T cells should more or less have the same profile. And same with the visa, especially in the context of this particular project, we're assuming that basically the variability that we see is is more or less noise, and a single should be consistent within groups. And in some cases they might be clear that we can tell that kick start somewhere over here and then somewhere over here. In other cases, like here, for instance, because there's two teams MIT two piece. It might be one key, there's a different level of an agent that we allow. That's just to say there's a peak somewhere within this region. So, but what will be the?

[841.0s - 870.0s]
The machine learning all those networks for. Look at. So. So without going into all the details again, given the allocation that I've just shown you, we can define false positive calls and false negatives, called false negative calls. Given any P call, we compete color profile. So given the profile given, the annotation will want. The color that basically minimizes the errors that were made. So I'll have an example that actually is going to show it is a bit more how we calculate the errors themselves.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So. So again, for 60 color, for instance, will actually want to select. This is now. It gives us a way to select the parameters, so typically some colors might have multiple parameters. In this simpler version, we just have one parameter that varies, and you can imagine again using the visual adaptation. We can estimate the number of false positives and number of false negatives. We can compare specifically cover algorithm, different choices of threshold. You might have a default settings for the algorithm and we might be able to send that were optimal setting based on this adaptation. So the.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
This task was really to build this benchmark data set and here you know this again was work by applying to be with some or some other people in the lab. But he was the same when he was here, and he's very good at convincing people to help evaluate. This was very, very interesting speakers. One of the factors that we wanted to evaluate is how much. The annotator himself very so will people actually allocate the region the same way. In this case there were actually four different annotators, Toby and a few others in the lab that annotated. In some cases the same regions is in case other regions. So in terms of the number of weeks is somewhere annotated so. He selected 7 version, largely Nunes, but again, this was done in different cell types in different individuals for different marks because. They were interested in the in the performance of some profiles. Some histone marks have this very Peaky profile, others have a more broad profile, so we really collected annotation from you as their first as we could as I work benchmark data set.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
So the strategy after that and these are just examples, will be to fix, say, the agitator and the cell times and then train and what part of the of the data and test in a different part of the data. Different regions. Here you're fixing everything when you're just here for training this set for just different steps of annotation in other case. Well, this is sort of a. This is also to know whether if you've trained if you've looked at the profiles in one particular style time, are you going to be able to make predictions in another cell type? The assumption of the hope is that text messages about this, yes? Another test that will do as I as I said is checking whether depending on the annotator you'll have you have different outputs orders it's stable across the different benefits.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
But so having this this large benchmark data set allowed us to compare the performance of different peak callers, and I think I'm pretty objective way this case. So we used again maybe to be used as many peak color algorithms as you could find that we're working for him. And again each of these papers are for is always claims that they have the right. The best tool, but this is now is sort of an independent assessment of the performance of these different tools. So Max is a very popular tool. If you see that the performance of Max is indeed very good, especially for profiles such as this one that has these very Peaky marketing. I'll show an example in the next slide. You see that the performance of Max is very good. You've got an option of running that tool for the broad marks as well. So it works well here once you move to the profile that has the broader region, the performance now starts to degrade a little bit, and it's actually image scan comes up on top so I didn't go over. What are these plants where, but we've got the false positive rate here and a true positive rate. And then you're varying the threshold. He's typically have this default threshold and threshold that ends up the optimal based on their selection. Based on our annotation, that's nice dining times, but you see that for pizza, narrow peaks Max really very, very well, but for the broader peak, patient can perform better.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Just to show you. Maybe I should have had this example before, but this shows you really how how this works. So you've got the profiles you have an example profile up here you have the annotation, so these colors vertical colors are the application. Visual annotation that has been added to the data and you see the. Peaks that are actually being called by different algorithms. Addison said, so. You see that for approach so again I mentioned it for profiles that speci Max ends up being quite good. Whether it's with the default parameters or even better with the train parameters of the peaks that it calls actually fall season. So in this case it makes no errors because the peak starts and ends. There's a feat that starts and ends in the region that we identified as being started in, and there's a peak within the region where we identified with the people we see that under the default setting it starts making yellow is nothing called, it starts making errors. So here you have a false positive because you're calling your feet in regions that are not annotated, he's don't count as theirs. But basically this gives you a way to evaluate and tune the different algorithms and compare them. Similarly, now for a broader mark, you see the performance, and in this case again as I said image 10 and it's indeed since we work better.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So I mentioned that this was the basic task of testing 1 type of region against one set of regions against the other sensor region. Very now the annotator. So if this is performed not only Kobe's annotation but with other people's annotation, we see that the ordering of the models remains quite stable. So it looks like it's not dependent, so Max performance for this narrow peak is good no matter who has annotated these datasets and nobody, no matter what cell type also looked at. I.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Another test that we did that I mentioned is if you compare if you train on one set of annotation from one individual and you actually test on the annotation that's made by another individual. See that the error is quite consistent, so again, this is reassuring because it shows that it's not cheap dependent on the person that actually has advocated the peak in this world.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
And the last part that I wanted to show this study. Looking at the thing out of paper 8 and various very similar, but this is to assess whether you know how much visual limitation or how many reasons do you actually need to do for the algorithm to start for the model to start converging. And this again is quite reassuring if you see that once you've had it dated roughly 45 regions, you've already reached the minimum test error. I actually hope again, this is also a better representation that really shows that sort of narrow piece Max outperforms. He entered the colors while for the broad ranges. It's definitely not Max. Even Max frog. You've got quite a number of tools that actually are targeting specifically these types of Marks and then do Ferris wheel. So this.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Who's the best part so we know from this visual benchmark. In supervised learning approach, we found that the Max algorithm which means I superior to bait the narrow peaks datasets, allow HM 10, which you might hear about the data from. Next couple days performed very well for the broad peaks and the errors were. Appear to be intended for the annotator. Anne. You'll get the model like cheese minimum error after just annotating four or five of these large regions. So. I don't know it yet.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Any questions on this just in terms of the project, this particular project, and some of the future direction. This was the first project in this case to apply machine learning. Some of these datasets. I was more than easy problem. I'd say I'm talking to take out pizza infection, but as I mentioned in the intro, the real question that we'd like to ask is, can we identify genetic variants to have an impact on the. Phenotypes and by females. I first emailed Ideas will uses the phenotype of the peeps themselves, so which genetic variant is associated with changing the profiles but. But ultimately the idea would be the link to the actual phenotype disease from the side, but we're using the profiles into spirit to begin with. Just started understanding the code outside of the kinetic. How's that into coding? So, so this is really so here. I haven't done that yet. This will involve combining the genetic information about variance in the DNA with the genomic data, such as the one that I was showing you. Actually, we couldn't use these approaches before because it was none of that data. There was data in one individual that was sometime, but the fact that you are now generating for the first time the datasets where we've got 100 individuals. We know their kinetic background and you're going to have all of these profiles were hoping this will be able to Start learning the rules of which variants are associated with change in the meeting. So that's some of the some of the word for future directions. So any?

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Christian movies. Yeah, so I kind of said it correctly. You showed that we see the Note 80 datasets we have ultimately setting parameters. Which method? So do you think you could go no further than that? Like try to combine the different algorithms with German PMA with innovation with United Way towards labor anymore. I don't give up. You basically end up too so so we've tried this, I mean, so we tried initially also to not use the just the peak colors but use different features that we would come up with and learn all those features and then try to predict. Our first naive approach wasn't better than the peak colors. I think we can still try to pursue that further. That could be interesting. One challenge is that in the performance is already quite good, so it's hard to improve on it. We have slight improvement in some cases, but it wasn't. It wasn't so obvious so, but yeah, I mean I think. That's simply another error. Who's in there? Send Max picture. My cat is your contribution from Travis. You arguments? Or are they relationship? Yeah, neither all algorithms in the literature. So so one approach. If we wanted we could use this in theory to try to develop a new approach that would be purely that we just purely learn from some features that we could design. But we haven't. We haven't successfully done that yet. ?

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Yeah. She's too hot for African with client and then clean computer without Internet exchanges. Yes, so that's the one for me from the system. Yes, so if you have the time frame for feedback and dumpling signal and match them. You think that answer your question. So to answer that question, I think. I mean adding the time dimension so we try to keep it as stated. We do have one project, for instance where we are following the same individual through time, and that's interesting, but it's not. Interesting too for that particular question, because that doesn't allow you to say this genetic variant has this impact. I mean to answer that question, I think the right data set is really to hopefully have comparable datasets in terms of when their blood was collected, and then you've got basically same conditions, but the only variable is the genetic, and so you will be able to tell. Having a variant here leads to a change in the peak. Yes, thanks. Those part didn't doesn't change to make changes, but it doesn't change that much right? So blood cell and remains of blood sets course changes a little bit based on what you eat, and there are certain things like that, but for the Matthew and vast majority of these cell types are quite stable. But that's why it's sufficient. We don't have to worry about it at that level, so the challenge is more. Having the right cell touch for the right link, even blood cells is a mixture of stuff, so we spend quite a bit of time trying to isolate and have homogeneous groups themselves. But if you do that, actually it's quite stable overtime. We don't know how much it varies, but definitely this is very correct. If you delete the PC application with pics. In the piece, so I mean typically we just remove them. So if you don't expect to have exactly the same reason, so we remove the article. OK, so. For something completely different. So you got another 15 minutes or so, so I'll just talk about something that's actually quite different.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Um? So I'll talk about the dark side of the moon. So I talked about the fact that genes are only 2% but actually one thing that's even weirder in the rest of the genome is the fact that. 30 to 50, probably 50% of their genome is actually repeats, and it's not so clear what what that.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Richie some people call it junk DNA, but that 50% of the genome is are in each transposable element, so. What happened is that there's different types of transposable elements, or one type part of these virus that actually inserted in our genome particular point in time, and then they have the ability to make copies of themselves once they've inserted. So at different period of time they've inserted in our genome and then gradually one. When they insert, they're all identical, and then gradually. With time, then you take away so the signal starts to fade away because they accumulate mutations and now they don't look identical anymore. But when they're jumping around or when they are inserting there really identical, so you have. Process if you look at this at the human genome now you have. Regions of the genome where you get these copies that really look the same. Sometimes it's easy to recognize them and sometimes has this because they communicated so much they're actually harder to identify. Again, it's quite. May

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
I think I think that. You know, in the history of mammals, for instance, at their different period of time, you had this massive expansion of DNA within our genome, and you've got again, I'm simplifying the story a little bit, but you have a virus to enter your genome. Start spreading in the genome makes copies of itself, and at some point stops, but those copies remain in the genome, such that if you look at the human genome, it's really a collection of all of these. History of invasion.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
So if you look at the human genome. Heard about this, you get that one repeats. The ALU repeats. So all of these repeats are relatively short sequences, few hundred base pairs Katie that entered the genome and made copies of themselves, and it was always sort of a bid that they did, and whether this was meaningful or not meaningful. Whether this is just something parasite in ordeal, or whether it was really doing something. But if you look in the UNIDO. 20 bucks a little 50% is is. 50% is creepy, but 25% of that is really specific to humans. So if you ask how you know? Where are the difference between humans and other primates or humans and other mammals? Alot of TSR.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
That are pretty weak. And and I guess this is appropriate, especially in this auditorium. So many Jenny was a famous. Scientist, so it's Barbara Mcclintock. The 1950s. She's the one who discovered these transposable elements, and then when she discovered them, her hypothesis was that it was potentially very important for revolution, so we were talking about functional genomics and trying to understand these regulatory elements. So the question of how these regulatory elements had merged, you know, do they emerge through standard Point mutations? And sometimes are beneficial and lead to binding sites. A regulatory element? Or couldn't you have that you know these orange sequences that are entering the genome is spreading around? Actually do something and carry some of these signals and really change the way genes are regulated. So this was a beginner I offices from along time ago.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
But it was hard to to really assess that question was not exactly hard to answer that question without these whole genome datasets. When I started my lab, one of the first observation was. That so we were again looking. These are examples of chipsey signal. Here we're looking at CCF, which is one of the regulatory protein. Defining sites of the genome and the observation was that if you look under these piece and again, these repeats are agitated in the genome because they're easy to find because they look the same. You can see that many of the eats overlap. Specific repeats repeats are everywhere, but those two really overlap. Specifically pizza. 28% of those binding sites were likely repeat.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Got excited when we saw that for P53. For instance, if you look at the P53 I talked about this before, but if you three is very important protein in cancer and other disease and close to 30% of the binding sites of P. 50, three were actually in one specific type of transposable element, not that we do not any of the other ones. 30% were in in one family. So there was really and then different from teaming associated with different elements, so we're quite quite excited about this.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
So we did. We did a study to try to look at this. Or systematic. So this was work done in collaboration with someone in Singapore where we were looking at the stem cells. In this case we're looking at different transcription factors. Out for nano, these are factors that are very important in stem cells. We have data on binding where these proteins on the genome. We had data on changes in expression, so I won't. I won't get into that too much, so we change the transmission factor and we look at which genes are changing. Then we try to use all of that to this figure out whether. The transposable element really created new functional binding sites.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Just to give you some ideas with numbers. So this is one family of transposable elements, so this family is called an LTR seven it's it's a virus that entered the genome 40,000,000 years of different, something like that, and it made copies of itself in the genome. We time it has 2000 or so copies in the genome. But now if you look at this protein, it's bound on. Almost 1000 of them, and if you do some some. Simulation or estimation of how many would expect by chance. It's really very few, so it's really extremely significant. This protein is bound on that.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Add yeah, I'm going quickly through this. Details are not so important, but it's really, you know. No matter which protein we were looking at, because fine repeat families that had that protein was associated with so many of these transcription factors are bound of those repeats of which some level had been predicted, which is also expect.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Polski.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Do a little help. This this is amazing. This was one of the main result, because if we're looking at binding sites up, so here we're looking at OP. Four is one of these transcription factors, and whether we're looking at the binding site of that factor. The ones that we're concerned between human and mouse, or the one that were in repeats in the CR V you had an enrichment for binding site in the repeats in proximity to jeans that were differentially regulate. Again, this is a bit technical, but I mean all that to say that it really looks like the binding sites in the repeat are functional, just like the ones that are conserved between variables.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
So putting all the data together. You know this is the kind of stuff that we usually think about when we sequence of mouse genome and we or do experiments and mouse and say it's probably the same thing in human. We expect the genes to be expressed in the same way in the same condition and we expect the binding sites that are regulator to be the same. Turns out that even when the genes are the same, the vast majority of time. The way those genes are regulated height change so that regulation hasn't changed as jeans are still there, but the way they're regulated has changed, so that's sort of breaks. The idea that it's highly things are highly conserved, it's highly concerned with the level of jeans, but it's not conservative level of these finding size and we also end up with lots of new genes that appear to be specific to you book. Like the jeans are not specific, but their regulation of those.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Specific. So you know at the level you look, you know the jeans are the same in human and mouse, but if you look at this epigenome, but if you look at the functional profile, it's quite different. Between your mouse, there's a lot of activity. In this area in this region, but only in human, completely blank in the valves and one of the reason for that activity is really because of these repeats, so they repeat themselves and it started after the human and mouse with our active, even though they're not active and jumping around, but they are active in affecting regulations, and so this really sort of confirms this hype.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Office if that.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
It confirms this hypothesis that first Marbury had and that was followed up by written in Davidson later on and sent at these transposable element. You are really part of the mix, I guess there you're not just junk DNA they came in with and change the regulation within our genial and so in these functional genomic experiments are doing, we obviously could be filtering them out and we also have to consider them because they really changed the way that we know works.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
10%. And I'll almost end with this, so this. Conclusions are not so this this paper in this study was picked up by Institute for Creation Research. I showed this because this is one of the highlights of my career I.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
My favorite is nice finding and they they. Maybe add another interpretation of it. Digital Perspective predicts high functionality throughout genomes with traces of degradation, adding accumulated since the curve that God lays on them. The high level of functionality of transposons. John DNA is more consistent with creation. Anyway, but that wasn't done.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
There's a lot of you know. Human genome. There's a lot of new regulatory sites that are different between human and mouse. You know there are some cases where it's considered, but there's really quite a lot of movements right here. If you're working in functional Genomics, looking outside of genes, you have to be careful because if you put in a criteria that has to be highly conserved with the mouse or something, you're going to be missing a lot of things that are happening.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Those those initial studies you know there's been more studies since then that also confirmed this. If you look again at the you know there's a lot of activity of these crystals. Allow them, and in some cases that's priming. So. All in here.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
I just thanking the people that did the words that last part. This would work that had been done in Singapore with Valley Machine learning examples. This is work by holding the gate, I'm showing some of the people that actually are working on the classified chromatic platforms center and we had a decision with anybody is interested. You can contact me but thank you for your attention.
