And the way to talk about our subscription ground calling algorithm over breast cancer vaccine data. Then describe a little bit about why we need to run the pipeline. Then I'm going to talk about the individual analysis techniques, mainly an overview, and then we get the substitution detection they will take. So I. Rearrangements so John Marshall has a poster up out in the Post Re area the identifier structure rearranged by local assembly. Let's see if we can get the break point down to the base pair level. It uses the pairs that have one uniquely mapped read, and the other reason they run map that has the gaps alignment pendock and then use the realignment miss map read when it expects greater divergent. So I'll give you a quick introduction to caveman what it is. Single base substitution calling algorithm. Deficiency it's reasonably speedy, so caveman performs a 3 way comparison between the reference sequence and normal and a tumor, which allows us to call snips as well as mutations. Each genomic position and look at the reeds over that position and build up effectively a large array of counts of reference based called base base quality to be used as covariates. When calculating or calling Subs in the expectation step, we use this profile to call substitutions in a Bayesian classifier. I've built it in a modular fashion with the intention that it can be changed fairly easily in various parts. You can you can build the profile, then you call the substitutions and then you can update your covariates. It's not yet tuned, so it's not as accurate as using base base calls. So output wise we get a result for every general position. Probability is assigned for every possible genotype given the reference base and the copy number, which is assumed to. So working at this angle, we have quite good luxury of a centralized core sequencing facility. Usage wise, as Andy said, we have a compute form. This is the total for the split step. It's actually computationally less expensive, less expensive for us to filter after calling the substitutions using Excel Mcdata. I think this was 2028 samples of exomes match breasts. And we found some minor causes in a couple of quite major causes. For for false positives. So to eliminate these, a very simple postprocessing step if the coverage in the tumor of calls reporting a variant are more than 10. You need at least at least one of those to be in the middle of the read in the second 3rd, and that cuts out a fair amount of the. I've stolen their mission statement from their website, but the take home message is 50 different tumor types or subtypes doing 500 matched tumor normal pairs for each type. Cross analysis of data trying to maintain consistent some consistency between different sites that are doing these various projects and we also have a number of other icgc projects, so ignore my CGC projects both here and in non human to do a variety of other things as well. I need to be fully fully sequenced, which is a significant amount of data. No one way we've dealt with this is using a set of 28 breast normals that we have the sequence for. If there's more if there's at least one high-quality variant reported in any of those we throw out the mutation and it seems to have a very good effect on miss mapping. Now the effect of post processing in a nice little pie chart. As you can see, 14% which is pretty poor, were actually confirmed somatic. We have a reasonable effect through post processing. So it's a quick way of checking because of this, Melanoma has the UV mutation spectrum. We must find substitutions in them at the frequencies in concordance with the literature that we have, and we've also found roughly 500 substitutions in 400 other genes. They're currently being validated and evaluated with more breast exomes. Leaders of the projects Adam and John are leaders of the IT section and the rest of the SGP for all their hard work and the Welcome Trust. CPUs we have a mixture of dual quad core multiprocessor machines arranged in LSF cluster. We can run all the jobs over memory for that is close to 9 terabytes of memory collectively is about 2.2 Giga core. Although we do have dedicated high memory machines for big individual jobs and other ones we average about 2 disk space. We use combination of being Mac mainly BWA reforms a bit more accurate, faster but certain analysis downstream need to choose Mac. It's simply because of the quantity of data we're dealing with. In the cosmic, this gives us the ability to view things or by gene cross samples so we can see what's going on. A better view by tissue looking at the overall picture of a full genome.