[0.0s - 29.0s]
And the way to talk about our subscription ground calling algorithm over breast cancer vaccine data. When were off today when we applied to our abstracts, we were asked to have combined the two. So I'm going to introduce an overview of our analysis pipelines and some of the other analysis we doing, sort of overview, and they're going to take over and go into much more detail about the substitution algorithm itself.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the initial overview. Describe the problem itself and all the steps we need to go through with next generation data. Then describe a little bit about why we need to run the pipeline. Some of the initial analysis we do which is shared between the different types of downstream analysis and also some of our data relation data presentation techniques as well. Then I'm going to talk about the individual analysis techniques, mainly an overview, and then we get the substitution detection they will take.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So working at this angle, we have quite good luxury of a centralized core sequencing facility. We don't have to do run the sequencing machines ourselves. We get a separate. Groups do that for us. So we basically handover samples and they give us fast Q files and a bunch of metadata to go with it. We put that through mapping algorithms to allow him to develop in genome produces BAM files. The binary form of the sequence alignment mapping files. This can be put through a variety of varying cooling systems. We can annotate the calls, validate them, and publish them out to cosmic and the ICC websites.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
I'm. Why we need to run apartment? This is mainly the icgc. I've stolen their mission statement from their website, but the take home message is 50 different tumor types or subtypes doing 500 matched tumor normal pairs for each type. We're doing two of those were doing the year basis Grant, which is a study of PR positive her two negative, so it's 500 to normal. Pairs are also doing separate breast cancer with triple negative lobular handful of other subtypes as well. Another 500 pairs. We also assisting another number of the other icgc groups with. Cross analysis of data trying to maintain consistent some consistency between different sites that are doing these various projects and we also have a number of other icgc projects, so ignore my CGC projects both here and in non human to do a variety of other things as well. So I would even these two studies alone sets 2000 genomes. I need to be fully fully sequenced, which is a significant amount of data. I mean the talk yesterday from Peter Park from the. The Cancer Genome Atlas the we have very similar problems to them. The amount quantity of data in the the amount of compute we need to do this.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So I'm first going to a little step and do the attack itself. Data center we use, which is drives both the mapping and the downstream analysis.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So the hardware we use, we call it farm. CPUs we have a mixture of dual quad core multiprocessor machines arranged in LSF cluster. We have a total of about 4000 calls. We can run all the jobs over memory for that is close to 9 terabytes of memory collectively is about 2.2 Giga core. Although we do have dedicated high memory machines for big individual jobs and other ones we average about 2 disk space. Under terabytes have lost their working space file system to run with a temporary space for more jobs are in progress. We also have 350 terabytes of long term storage. Although we always seem to have more on order. To do one normal tumor folding and pair with their analysis, storing all the signals, everything else about a TB of storage, and that's having everything you everything you can really stored in binary files and compressed files and everything else. While a projects, while a individual sample pairs in progress, it takes probably about 2 terabytes of storage.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So I'll do a little bit about the top section here.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Right? We mainly use aluminum genome analyzer tools. We have previously used J1 W solids. We do a little bit on the four levels as well. We've had a few test runs off of the Illumina. Hi seqs, they make everything run out of memory when you try to run things. For mapping. Most of the aluminum platforms generate very similar kind of data, so most things didn't need to change too much when platforms for mapping. We use combination of being Mac mainly BWA reforms a bit more accurate, faster but certain analysis downstream need to choose Mac. Instead we choose faster line. It's simply because of the quantity of data we're dealing with. So here is 1 cagey know it's a little bit to the right of K Ras I think is intergenic sequence, but we've got all these different repairs mapping up. This represents about 1/3 of the data we have in this location on this particular sample. Things one cell lines mergence even in this revenue small area. We've got a lot of data, and there's three times that actually in the system.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
I'm going to skip past the variant calling go down to the bottom and talk about this area here. So we've detected Coles, an annotated invalidation is deals with mutations in a very similar fashion. It deals with the individual mutation call on its own evidence, looking at its own follow up. It's only when we start doing these sort of more bigger display techniques, we actually get to see sort of combined view of different mutations together. So we pulled out of our data.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
In the cosmic, this gives us the ability to view things or by gene cross samples so we can see what's going on. A better view by tissue looking at the overall picture of a full genome. Looking at things, my sample and phenotype, looking individual mutation, how many times the individual mutation repeats. We could do this because we write cosmic as well so we can load in progress data into cosmic, review it and then push it out. The external websites at the next public causing release. Any tools we make to help mine through this data internally? We're also going to be releasing onto the external company website so that people can use it to mine through the public data there as well.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Putting things in the cosmic also gives lots of external links to those other places. So the output sample entree, gene, OMIM, and other places will look up other peoples and mutation calls as well. We can actually export the data through to other places too. Public cosmic gets a export, so everyone can just take the day to do they want with it, and we have to buy marks in the icgc related franchise databases as well so people can mine that way too.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
OK yeah, very calling itself. I'm going to skip the copy number. Chris Greenman, who spoke this morning, did go into that as well and we've had an awful lot of copy number talks today so people may be getting a bit bored with that by now. First of all, let's say three arrangements in Delaware get substitutions and head over to Dave.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So I. Rearrangements so John Marshall has a poster up out in the Post Re area the identifier structure rearranged by local assembly. Very brief overview and this is a lot more detail on that poster. So we take the informative repairs and for this particular analysis, that's individual repairs where the region map accurately, but the repair form unexpected product sizes. So we have a normally mapping the repair their normal one here, but this stack obviously have a foot each side on separate chromosomes, so Group A column like this together try to get informative data from the repetition. I don't try and use velvet dinner assembly across the join. Let's see if we can get the break point down to the base pair level.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
I'm in Dale detection. We pinned oh published by Chi. This uses a slightly different subset of the reads. It uses the pairs that have one uniquely mapped read, and the other reason they run map that has the gaps alignment pendock and then use the realignment miss map read when it expects greater divergent. Some reference the macro BWA do. It does this by using the uniquely mapped reads against the guidelines to wear vaguely. The other Reed needs to fit. Here we have an example of a deletion in two. I think this is published by words it out a few years ago, and we just reconfirmed every single cells and making sure we can find it. Now there is no overlap between what Pinder calls and what the rearrangement detection calls ladies. A similar subset in the region some respect. But the rewrite protection won't spot very small deletions, indels because they're within individual reads. This needs to have the break point in the insertion here in the inserted fragment between the reads. This looks for the actual event going on entirely within an individual read itself. Luckily quite a few types of ranges can be detected by both and so they kind of act as their own validation on the same data set, which is quite nice.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And now we're heading over to Dave. Thanks Andy. Right, so I guess we've seen all the other quite interesting types of variation yet. We've had a lot of copy number. We've had some rearrangements and I suppose Subs are probably bread and butter. There was quite a nice introduction to sequencing errors on Genome Analyzer and. And you sequencing tech from Peter yesterday in Peter's talk. So I'm going to go into a little bit more detail about how we've dealt with those. So I'll give you a quick introduction to caveman what it is. Very brief overview of the algorithm 'cause we haven't got huge amount of time. Some usage requirements of it, and then some of these sequencing sequencing errors that aren't dealt with by the algorithm that we've had to cope with afterwards, and some validation results and some very preliminary results from our. Some of our breast cancer screens.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So what is caveman? Single base substitution calling algorithm. So you're not going to get any arrangements or copy number out of this. It's written in Java. It uses an indexed BAM file as Andy described as a binary format. For those of you. Not aware, it's I did have it somewhere I haven't. If you look at some tools that will give you an idea of what it is, Picard is a Java implementation of the samples concept, so I use that for reading in the band files, it's. Produced by some guys over at the road. Deficiency it's reasonably speedy, so caveman performs a 3 way comparison between the reference sequence and normal and a tumor, which allows us to call snips as well as mutations. And it uses a simple implementation of the expectation maximization algorithm, which is described by these guys.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So very quick aside, EM algorithm 2 steps in terms of caveman, we use the maximization step to iterate through. Each genomic position and look at the reeds over that position and build up effectively a large array of counts of reference based called base base quality to be used as covariates. When calculating or calling Subs in the expectation step, we use this profile to call substitutions in a Bayesian classifier. For those stats, fans out there.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And so. Ivor, the intention was. Because we have to deal with. These well, rapidly advancing new technologies. I've built it in a modular fashion with the intention that it can be changed fairly easily in various parts. We do intend to make it publicly available after publishing, hopefully around Christmas. And the idea of it being modular, we run it in two steps. There are a couple of other minor ones. I'll go into one of them. So you can update the step after you've built up the profile, and this effectively is the iterative part of the algorithm. You can you can build the profile, then you call the substitutions and then you can update your covariates. And various other parameters to re input into your eastep and get another, hopefully more accurate substitution call. As I say, I built it flexibly. Basically, as long as it's in BAM input and paired reads, it should be OK to use. We have use solid data. We ran our NCI H 209, the lung cancer that Erin published in 2009. It's not yet tuned, so it's not as accurate as using base base calls.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So output wise we get a result for every general position. Probability is assigned for every possible genotype given the reference base and the copy number, which is assumed to. I know is wrong and you can input your own copy number values. Now, if you well default cutoff values are there. But if you define your own you can and if the sum of all mutation. Or cymatic change Gina types is more than the cut off or similarly for snips their output to file in this sort of format. So you got chromosome general position reference, base, total mutation probability, total snip probability, the even the lesser glide of you will notice that those don't add up to one, but that's a. That's a rounding issue. Early from rounding for output and then you get the top two Gina types for interest, so clearly. Caveman is calling. This is a very certain homozygous change from C to AT and we got copy #2 in both normal and tumor and the second most popular second most likely according to Caveman is a CT snip with LOH in the tumor. And the two associated probabilities and then finally for more interest or post processing some other stats you can get out of it, such as normal contamination, etc. You've got. ACG&T in the normal an in the tumor. And as you can see, not that cherry pick this at all. You've got 26 reads in. I'll season the normal and 36 at ease in the tumor. Not normal base is also output, which means you get an output for every position that has satisfactory coverage. Which is alterable as well. So you can at least see whether something has been called or missed or perhaps makes.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Assertion as to why something wasn't seen.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Usage wise, as Andy said, we have a compute form. We're very lucky in that we've got a lot of lot of memory in a lot of a lot of CPU to play with. Nevertheless, in order to make it fair to the other users of the form and. Fairly efficient, we've designed this initial steps that counts the number of reads in the normal in the tumor over. A certain split and reduces them all to sort of similarly sized farm chunks, which is why your memory per job stays very. Very stable between EXO and genome data, but the number of jobs is much smaller 'cause the reeds are targeted to certain areas and not spread relatively evenly over the genome. CPU seconds per job. This is the total for the split step. Submerge steps in the middle for combining the data after this after we've run split jobs, the step and the M step an output and it's reasonably quick. I mean going back to. What was it? Mark, the first talk he he said, you know it takes months to create the data, so you know if we're taking a day to analyze something, it's it's. It's all relative.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So what kind of tools do we get for exomes or calling the minimum we've called? So far I think this is over about 100 samples. There's 557 calls per per genome for the X. I'm sorry and the maximum is 64 K, which. Is probably an unmatched sample, so a lot of these are going to be snips. Average is it says here I've included all unmatched. It says 8 1/2, but really for matched samples you're getting about 1 1/2 two and a half thousand variance and I'll go into some more filtering later. And obviously for genome we get far more.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
No post processing. Caveman is perhaps overly sensitive in the fact it detects a lot of well, it did. We've improved, it detects a lot of rubbish. It's actually computationally less expensive, less expensive for us to filter after calling the substitutions using Excel Mcdata. I think this was 2028 samples of exomes match breasts. We called 935 putative somatic mutated semantic substitutions, which were. I believe these were narrowed down to coding and splice variants, as the XCOM isn't entirely accurate 'cause it was built in 36 and exported to 37. And we called 131 is semantic, which is 14% specificity, which is pretty poor really. With confirmations through.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Calorie sequencing. So we thought we'd go back to the drawing board. Have a look at why we're calling so much rubbish, given that the building up of a genome profile should allow us to. In effect and minimize, or at least have take out some of the sequencing errors. And we found some minor causes in a couple of quite major causes. For for false positives. Now this age old capillary problem, you get slippage at the end of Poly and mono nucleotide tracks. See.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Post processing step can remove that by weave. We've gotta repeat Masker run then we look at these simple repeats and within a certain distance you can remove remove variants called their germline in bells over the calling artifacts. Because of the way they work this has in Delaware.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
SVT. Anne.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
More major causes, I believe Peter went into this yesterday. Ends reads. You get a lot of deterioration and missed calls. As you can see by these, the red ones are all non reference bases and got Lindell there as well insertion.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So to eliminate these, a very simple postprocessing step if the coverage in the tumor of calls reporting a variant are more than 10. You need at least at least one of those to be in the middle of the read in the second 3rd, and that cuts out a fair amount of the. False positives that we generate through. Ends, reads and if we got lower coverage, we just alter it so that we allow the 1st and 2nd, 3rd and that seems to.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
We have a reasonable effect. Another issue is low quality basis. If you look at the profile of confirmed somatic mutations and false positives. Quality wise. You're there's a different profile, clearly, and this is quality over 25.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Now assume another simple simple filter. Third base calls reporting invariant in the tumor have to be over base quality 25 and you eliminate.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
A lot of these others. And finally. Something that can't be dealt with too easily. If you saw some of these separately in a different race, you'd think. They look pretty reasonably real.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
However, you've also got the quieter Red Arrows. Here we go, the slightly lower peaks there, and when you blast the genome, it's you know, there's clearly several fairly high probability matches.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
No one way we've dealt with this is using a set of 28 breast normals that we have the sequence for. If there's more if there's at least one high-quality variant reported in any of those we throw out the mutation and it seems to have a very good effect on miss mapping. We've also used another approach, which I won't go into now that has made an additional. Quite a bit.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Impact on the number of false positives were calling, but anyway, how does this post processing work? How well? So we're looking at numbers of this is not a sample and this is numbers of substitutions called in coding regions. You know, you sort of. You get a reasonable. 80 to 250 maybe and then you get some others that are slightly less or. Have a slightly.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Mutated phenotype. And then when you apply the postprocessing filters. You can see where you know as expected. I suppose you're calling a lot of. You're removing a lot of them now. What about this? And normally you say so. We've hardly affected it at all. By removing the false positives well.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
When you do DB snip, IDs search on all of the semantic substitutions pretty much just over half. Known to DB Snip, which I would assume or I would assert, is a.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Good evidence for them being a unmatched normal tumor pair. Now the effect of post processing in a nice little pie chart. As you can see, 14% which is pretty poor, were actually confirmed somatic. Small sections were attack slippage, pool sequencing, map error, and rest were snip mapera an we got two more wild types so. We make a reasonable effect. I get. We have a reasonable effect through post processing. We get it up to 72%. Which is not bad, but as I say, we have, we've improved this further, but this was two days ago I think, so I haven't had time to put the slides in. Afraid, but post processing. You can see we've removed a lot of the tax slippage. Now, there are still a reasonable proportion, but this far less tumor wild type as well, which we're finding.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Now principle I guess using color 89 the the Melanoma yes Melanoma that. Erin released the paper on in 2009. There were 3533 thousand or substitutions called 520. Two of those were validated and that was run on NCBI. 36 I used leftover to convert them 'cause we using need newly mapped through Mac through BWA 'cause these were mapped through Mac. Came out only missed three of them. Two of them were. Two of them were just under the cut off, which I put at .95 and they were at .90, so not bad. On the other one. Didn't have enough evidence to be called, and there was no call at all for it, so I'd want to look into that in more detail. But overall that gives you. I think that's something like 99.5% sensitivity, which I'd say is pretty reasonable. And we also found 25,000 normal substitutions that weren't in Aaron's call. Some of them may be leftover issues. Others look real and need to be validated.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So it's a quick way of checking because of this, Melanoma has the UV mutation spectrum. Is having a look at the novel calls and seeing whether they match up to Aaron's? Mutation spectrum from the kind of 89 paper and again, Paula Geez is a fairly new results, so there's no stats to show whether this is significant similarity or not, but I'd say it looks pretty reasonable that. Mature, vast proportion of these are going to be real. So we're going to select. A subset and validate them.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
I would say. Now, very quickly, some very preliminary. These are. Positive primary breast tumors. After seeing the results from the color 8 to 9, I think we can rely on it to pick up some reasonable mutations or substitutions. So these are 27.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
They are positive tumors. As I say, you know, positive breast cancer. They say we managed to find. Pick your favorite tumor suppressor Uncle Gene. We must find substitutions in them at the frequencies in concordance with the literature that we have, and we've also found roughly 500 substitutions in 400 other genes. Several say many in more than one sample. They're currently being validated and evaluated with more breast exomes. As Andy showed you, we've got quite a few to go through. And.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Phil is currently writing, I think writing up those results. So I gave you a quick overlay and he gave you a quick run through the pipeline. Capeman, which hopefully will be publicly available if you are interested. And I gave you a quick run through of the.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Notes. Peter came up with the implementation of the expectation maximization algorithm. Phil has done a lot of the breast research. Karen has built a lot of the pipeline. And Serena and Nacho are doing a lot of the other breast analysis. Obviously, Mike and Andy Co. Leaders of the projects Adam and John are leaders of the IT section and the rest of the SGP for all their hard work and the Welcome Trust. Thank you. Any questions please? Any questions? Well, quick question myself. Since you're using an EM algorithm, it's not convex, so is there any problem with local minima and Jeff to restart it? Or probably no problem? So. At the moment we have only needed to do one iteration in effect, and we've come up with. As you can see, that fairly accurate results. I guess that's something we'll encounter when we are going back and iterating through more than once, but it's. Yeah, we haven't encountered it yet.
