So from all items that I have some movies in my store, I want to pick a few items for each user and the goal is of course that each user should find the recommended items relevant relevant. I mean that they like it and in the Netflix data that means that they gave a five star rating or would give a five star rating to these items. If someone gives me a recommender system so I do the usual thing. And like Netflix competition, right? Kate rate obviously depends on K, which we have to pick right top five, top 10 or whatever and it also ignores the ranking of the items. So I called it the area under the top K curve and this is obviously independent K. It's the numbers between zero and one larger is better and. It captures now the ranking of all the items and it agrees with the area under the arosi curve that you might be familiar with in the leading order. Matrix factorization model with two low rank matrices P&Q. OK, now computational efficiency is really important for recommender systems, so that's why I just use the familiar least squares objective function. If I sum over all items now I have the problem that this squared error term here, where these are the ratings. So it's basically now. About 100 times more items that I have to sum over but with alternating least squares I can do it almost as efficiently as if I just had a sum over the observed items. So the imputed value rating value RM the wait for the missing ones and also Lambda for the regularization. So concerning the imputed rating value, what I find is now for the Netflix data, so these are now the test results on the health out probe set. The more interesting is now actually the way that we have to choose for the missing ratings, and so the maximum we can choose this one, which means that the missing end up soft ratings all have the same weight of 1, which is a standard SVT then which has been used successfully in latent semantic analysis for over 10 years now for text analysis. But remember that the fraction of observed ratings in the Netflix data is 0.01, so this means now that all the missing ratings together have half the weight. The Red one is really bad with one point 1, but if we go to a really good model with .887 which was reported in Yehuda Koren's paper in 08, the integrated model trained to optimize our MSE. You can see that you get a little bit of an improvement over the dashed line, but you're way below the red line. It also increases the top K hit rate on all items. And it also has been noticed that ratings are missing. There's also some work in the implicit feedback data community about Clickstream data, TV consumption tags, bookmarks, purchases, and that is actually much more similar to my work than the one in the explicit feedback data. And so that's how they. So conclusion, so I considered explicit feedback data missing not at random, and hopefully now I convinced you that it is really important to define a very good test performance measure that is very close to your real world problem. It's very nice if it's unbiased on the mnar data under. And I also showed a computationally efficient approach and objective function for training are very simple model. And in the top gate rate. Now to some other performance measures like the top K hit rate, because we've seen that they are actually very different, right? And conceptually we can sync that we have unknown complete rating matrix. And that case is true if a rating value has no effect on the probability that it is actually missing in the observed data, and if that's the case, then the correct results are obtained by ignoring the missing ratings. Obviously this data is missing not at random, and what we can see is instead of giving low ratings, users tend to not give a rating at all. One reason is when I want to compare different recommender systems on fixed data. The second important property is that under my assumption. So that's the user experience is related to the complete data and not to the. I mean I mnar data and the assumption for this to hold is actually pretty simple.