Say that you know we have a huge amount of structured data on the web and you'll see this soon. So we're being much more proactive. Simon got the award for Best UK Internet journalists last year, an prestigious award in the for innovation in Journalism. Up to snuff to sort of these people right and the other thing is that finding structured data on the web is really hard. OK, so if I'm an analyst looking at, you know, sales data and I want to put that in context. Two, just, you know, say, ask for the population data in the counties that I'm looking at the sales data and also in that context about OK, how much am I selling? Or if I'm a high school student and I'm looking at bird species and I'm doing a project about bird species and where they are in danger of extinction, I'd like to look at the area of the country. OK, it's just a happy data happy data world, and this is where linked data. I should be able to do that easily. But the other thing you want to do, search for tables OK and you want to search either for tables, Fusion tables that people have made public or tables that just exist on the web and actually are very high quality and can be useful for people. Is this is this is very very important is we're trying to link the data that people are putting in and the data that we're finding on the web to the Google Knowledge Graph. I'm not that old for three years since June 2009 actually, and the idea of Fusion tables is really to make data management applicable to the 99%. Well, I'll talk about web tables, which is a project that goes and collects structured data on the web and tries to provide search over that huge collection of data. OK, so finding good tables is like finding a needle in a haystack. In the beginning of the web the people were talking about the deep web as the main source of structured data, and that you know that holds today too. We're working towards a semantic web OK, but in a very different way where we're providing people a tool to get their work done as a side result of that, they're going to put up interesting data that will be useful to everybody and hopefully hopefully linkable to other datasets. So one of the things that we focus on in Fusion tables is helping people tell stories, create visualizations of their data so they can communicate it to the 99% or the 99% of the people who are not actually using Fusion tables. 'cause on the web data is about everything. It's a very hard problem. We looked at the left column, hits on the schema were very important. If we knew the schema, we did some quality assessments. The things that said, you know, cities such as Berlin, Paris, and London. If you're talking about you're looking at a table, you want to find the table tables that are related. OK, it's very natural thing, and again, what does related tables really mean? 'cause you can union these two tables? Appeared last week in the SIGMOD industrial session. So we launched. Sort of what I said, so I think you know we're trying to fuel the ecosystem of structured data on the web and the way that we found to do that is. I'm not going to talk today about whether we can get the crowds to help on various issues of integrity, of data integration, or finding good tables, but obviously that's an interesting area of research. Easy to use as possible. OK, we put visualizations front and center. OK, so you know the first thing when we launched Fusion tables. Some of the semantic differences that goes on between. Yeah, we were in the early days of Fusion tables. How do you actually set up a marketplace for structured data?