[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello person, I consider myself over to different cities in presenting our work on my TV which is outside. Just outside Cambridge, but.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Here two months about work on the screen today for people playing for working with popped up in Boston with Isaac Newton Idea because some of her medical school and actually I just came back from a visit there. And since I currently give me a break, this virus very much enjoy increasing. Basically even indoor temperatures there. So I'm following up with my voice is not very good or or the final time in my best shape plate. Um? Yeah, so actually, I'd like to thank, says John microgrids focused and therefore for the wonderful inside the store, but also because I think they will allow me to skip a pickup introduction because you will see what I will tell you today. Similar lines of research, slightly different methods and different data, but in Copa unable to tell you. We are also trying to other similar questions on our approach somehow links between.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Both of them, so that's really what we're interested in is to understand how cells are able to process a similar information that we know. This is controlled by this very large signaling and regulatory networks and.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Particular what we like to understand is how this regret all these networks are altering development of disease. So what goes wrong in the cell from the moves from being a healthy cells is able to process properly exposing our information and transform standing to Odyssey cells, cancer cells over many other types. And they are in terms of this question of changes in memory.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
In the context of development fees, out of work has been developing in this alot of unicycle that happens to dinamic level is the inspiration or even now. Practicing levels of proteins and certainly this operations that find the symbol of this network, but it's not a still not very well known for the functioning of these signaling directory. That work is affected in that come up with this and that's what I would like to talk about today and as a case study. Moving, working or liver cancer or imperfect market will select a cinema, which is the most common form of legal counsel, and there is actually no good treatment besides Siri did.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Surgery and. Following but you said so, there is a lot of information ignoring this personal level, but relatively little is known about the signaling pathways. How work, healthy liver, how they gave out, are in the development of our carcinoma. So from.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Springtime POV, The way we're trying to analyze this working using what we call is fixing our response paradigm. So what we do is we take ourselves of interest in my case in Universal's going to stimulate the number of users inside of it. Well those are so the monitor their behavior of the cells by looking at the phosphorylation of a number of proteins between these networks without technology very similar to the ones I am presented and then we also measure from responses that tell us a bit about what they sell decided to do. Given the information it was exposed to.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So then the way this happening in our family on the popular cinema, and so we started to look at number of polygons notably important for human biology. Listen here, going for growth factors to some other signals after prosecutors and so forth we select subset of those that include any service led to the strongest responses. And then we assembled on some of them, otherwise derived from a commercial database of publishing limited resources. But at the time we look at it. Meeting on the assembled these network where you can sit here and then we try to simplify in settlements in this network that we put in the perturbative uses modeling return that block the previous specific harness in this network and also wanted to mention separation of different signals. After stimulation and unbroken limiters for that piece of technology, which is called Rubi negative, which is able to be similarly to the frosting risk as science. So we measure up to 20 different phosphorylations. The same time from a certain sample. So, so they needed these constraints we came up with the following experimental setup so you can see here things in red and things that we brought with emitters things in blue things that we will measure in other things in magenta thing we're both broke or measure. So you see that we were able to sample a female that's across the network, but simply not many of them.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And so they wait in this tournament will run and this was done word by the time Apostle fed Olivia had a couple of who's now probably be nothing. He took a 1 sided primary key manufacture site, supposedly healthy liver cells and then different liver cancer life. For example, one called MG2 and then replaces workplace discrimination with these formations of the leaders and tell you before this wrong factors inflammatory signals and so forth. And this molecule emitters that block specific proteins in the network. And so at certain times after this simulation, we measure with this luminous security operation of 17 projects. And sometime later, also the release of 25. OK, as I said before, we used us. Proxy of information about weather style. Decided to do that given their similar trickery, certainly supposed before. And a.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The first problem that we have to face when these pyramids were done was simply a purely workflow problem. So how do you handle these large data set? So you got this huge spreadsheets and there were people in the lab were doing. You can expand and doing copy and paste an organ by finding the motivation and then doing some different statistical analysis. But then they would want to go back and know how we got the results. It was very very cumbersome and error prone. And on the other hand we. Look at different services like databases that work great for large genomic datasets, but those are the other hand were very rigid and not easy to adapt to different permits because American experiment. This is 2014 from from primitive pregnant, so we decided to set up a similar tool box that was slightly flexible and in particular helpful in this large perimeter datasets with mathematical modeling which will show you later on.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And so we can. We develop this little tool box and call data rail, whereas I said them passing in a minute and tells you to link it with her mental data, high throughput or many people. Instrumental, data and mathematical models. I'm going to take a plan and go into my Navy tales, but yes, to emphasize, features. 1 user maintenance of data provenance So what I said before this problem, we have data and we start the process and if you want to go back later and it keeps track of all of that for you so that the end of the day you can reconstruct the football from weaker under workflow between data and support. And another thing is very easy to connect with. Expand To other elements, but we saw you today briefly how willing this too progressive methods. Or or to Boolean logic modeling, but we also connected to punish me for this method or many others. Yeah, for interactive, feel free to correct me later on anytime.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Another thing you can do with data rail and I like to solid distributed, more familiar with the data is described it to visualize data concerning PR. Small part of the spring this Friday. For these are primary practice English with growth factor. PDF Alpha after particular differing liters. So before this is here and here is the first version of cookie propane safety in there so that you can have the tiny boxes like small experiment where you measure the. Population of Central pointing in certain conditions and you can see that we also use records to encode information. For example, pricing signal is yellow or sustained disclaimer. So this is more part of.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Pretty bad, but even the same for the large data set. In case you see, again, different legal. He had different things. We measure accountability because see the different individuals for each of these columns correspond to specific experiment on each of these roles to specific measurements. And you had to face do things more complicated, but was enough then. Then here is a heat map for each one of the side effects with one of these responses happening sometime after the activation of histogram passes. And this is the.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Complicated now given overlay at different like for example here we overlay the primary publicize data with data from one of the cancer cell lines for D2 and you can see that we use the background color to encode weather because it's a language for the stronger or the primary sources from stronger. But you can use this data first. Feeling of determining responses of the different cell types and also you can look at the specific values in the in the tiny box.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So I made something. For one thing you can do is to do regression analysis an we did quite a bit of that an I'm going to go into the details but it led to some interesting hypothesis, in particular down here about how to link how then everybody is connected to the release of cytokines that activate innate immune response. How that sort of in in liver cancer cells. But what I'd like to talk about today is what in our hands was the limitation of this approach is? Which is that you don't get so much mechanistic insight. So what do I mean by that? So in our case, we knew that we were sampling only a few notes down here, but there are a lot of players involved that are here. You can see shaded in the background. If you do regression, you find out, for example, that stimulation of TNF receptor leads to phosphorylation of HP 27, But you don't really know how this is happening, and ideally like to know that, for example, WhatsApp.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The happening is that the NF leads to declaration of traffic graph of tokamak and P38 until you get HP 27. And what would you care about? Knowing how this is happening? Besides appear cyantific Internet? This is important because if you are trying for example to look at pathways that are specifically active in the cancer cell line is supposed to a healthy cell line. You like to know which of the players involved, because those are potential targets that you can try to attack with drugs for to affect the cancer cell lines. Then the question is what we're going to get this additional mechanistically?

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Insightful information, so we've seen before on this problem. Apps you have a lot of information of different players involved in the network, but. Do you have any useful resource for the context of what we wanted it here they are limited in that first these are picture, so this is not a model. I cannot take this network as it is here and run simulations and say what happens if I activate this legal here. What's going to happen down here and the second limitation is that these are not some specific. So when you go to databases or or reviews people tend to put together information from different cell types in different conditions and so forth. So in my case for example, it's not clear how much of this actually matters. For for them, for the liver cells.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Then the question is that how can you try to put together these two types of information pathway Maps with the conditional in data to create some type of specific models.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So thinking about this course here, we came up with three steps we need to fulfill. First one is you have a picture. You have to make a model out of it so you can run experiments in it. Then if you have models, the final metric to see what is a good model given data finally come up with a framework so you can explore different model variance given the data in the metric that we used to valuate them. And at the end identified the best model or the best family of models. Yeah. I'm fine, and so the first question is how do you make models out of it and we have seen for example by Mark that you can do very very powerful models that describe what the biochemistry of signaling pathways and those are very useful tools. But in our case we have around 10 different pathways, so in that case it was one day if map kinase or effectively map can I still have 10 difference and it's not feasible to model that? Also, question frameworks or maybe there for months. It will take years to find the different parameters and also because these Maps don't have enough biochemical details. So you have the players and how they interact with each other, but you don't know exactly how the different interactions are, where it's at phosphorylation of double phosphorylation and so forth, and So what we decided to do as a first approximation. And this is something that in the meantime we have expanded is to use various.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
People models which are really logic models, so nobody logic models the state of the different proteins is discrete in a simple case on enough and and then the different elements are connected by logic gates that are statements like if this and that then this thing will happen. And then they were going to evaluate our models. It's a balance of feet of data model size. So topic that came up earlier today and we look for the best model. Describe the data within the best models, will try to find the smallest possible and then to make a Long story short, we develop an algorithm that what it does is it takes these Maps as they wanted to you before he could reach of parts that you cannot really say much about. Because for example yellow measuring those branches. Then it creates a scuffle aura. Assemble of all the possible models. So all these possible NR logic gates that you can think of that are compatible with a certain map and then by process of training so that you can solve with static algorithm or or other methods to identify the best model or the best family of models given given the metric under data.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Unless you develop a free tool box to do this kind of analysis and I just like to emphasize how this is different to other methods to diversionary like for example the reason it works that science showed. So here first the first time we are relying on the prior knowledge for the good thing for the bad. For domains that we limit the options so the parameters space we need to search for options is much smaller for the bodies. We may miss links that are not in the prior knowledge. Another difference is because in this prior Maps we have information about intermediates. We can make statements about things that we are not measuring or perturbing.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And so then we're going to take this approach to the better sides. Data show you before. For example, the first thing we did is to take the map and take data from one of the concerns aligned, and you're going to start by thinking OK, let's take this map. Make a Boolean model out of all of these elements and try to see how well that describes the data.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And if you do that, you see that the model is quite bad in fitting the data, so whatever that's key are not going is a mismatch between model and data. However, if you run this, this printing process where you commit of different interactions, you play with different gates. At the end you come up with much better model is not perfect and right here some areas of red that I will come back in next slide. But you see that you are able to describe most of the things and then what you can do is you can then go and go back to network and see which of these. Edges that you have interest in having original map are present on here. Again, I think second of good but nice description of how it's important that you sell single model. But to look at family of models here are the strength of the lines is the frequency how often the different edges appear across a family of models which have a different of them of 1% error in hardware that describes the data. But you can do that. You can see which things seem to be. Active in this cell type, which things are not?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And also you can do an do that so that you can do with cross validation data or even using an independent data set. So I would this model is a predictor. And also I think you can do is to see how good is this network as a starting point because I get ready to. Also what came up before. You can also say well the maybe also for this question, how good is this network does? Does this make make sense at all? Could have used some random network ANAN if you try with different ways to randomize a network on your data. You find that even though these networks are not perfect, they are significantly good prior knowledge of what's happening in the server.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And another thing I'd like to briefly touch is the fact that these models are not perfect and said we are constrained. The first type of just what is in the network. But what you can do is then you can, in a second step trying to find the links that you can add to the best model you got an. If you do that then you find links that actually if you go back to the literature they are. They are supported so so basically there are possible links and we're just not include into this Community network and. We're not going to details, but actually a more interesting situation happen where we found links that we could not explain based on what is known, and this led to some interesting insight into one of the small molecule emitters who were using.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
But then what we decided to do then is to compare the signal environment to healthy liver cells and particular carcinoma. We took a look at primary human liver cells are said before for different cancer cell lines that are used as models of different stages of development, photo cell carcinoma. So if you do the one we looked at before and this is almost in the Potomac model and these are less and less differentiated all the way down to focus, which is the less differentiated cancer selling of all of this? I know what we did is this this more Flyers so do for all of them. So you take these indirect network you create these couple of logic models. You then turn into a different cell types that you get some specific models you may want to add new links to improve the defeat of data and at the end when you get this specific networks that you can compare to each other.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And then if you do that, and if you look at the networks you got this this.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Results, he added.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
I'm just going to.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Through so you can see that the networks are to some degree have common elements, but also have many differences.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
I, I mean, the question is then how do you find out that these concepts aligned to each other and with respect to? With respect to the primary partner sites and the way that they were looking to.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
This is to define the distance between different cell lines, which is based on the difference in the part of the model. So just look at how many common or different elements that have across this family of models for each of them and for the sake of the argument we included like an average cancer cell line, which basically is a mix of data from the different concepts alliance and so then if you compute these distances between the satellites based on the topology, then if you cluster the seller, you see that even though all concepts. Inside the genius, they're significantly more different from the primary cells. Find.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
To leave then you go back and look at the other type of profiling that has been done on these cell lines. For example, based on gene expression or something typical differences. Then you see that there is a large agreement with this. What we find at the level of the pathway activation and what was identified in different levels is not exactly the same, but it's true. That's agree, a consistent and but what we can do here that you could not do, perhaps by looking at, you know typical or even expression profiles. Then we can go back to the bad ways. And then we can say OK, what are the elements in these networks that are making the difference? So which specific parts of the networks are active in the cancer? Cell lines are not in the primary cells or vice versa. Which elements are active in the primary service, but I'll switch off in.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Cancer cell lines. So if you do that, you come with the following. Three key differences that I'm showing you here, so no cancers, alliance and across the whole family of models. Insulin needs activation of the P3K AKT pathway, although although around to the locator viewscreen in primary cells, HP 27 phosphorylation can be triggered by Eric and the concepts Elisa Research, Peter Disinformation. But goes for a different pathway by piece of cake, and finally an provided more interesting at at least from from the point of view of. Mother, so then, if a bad way you know concerts, airlines, they requires a single stimulus to be activated that comes from Tina Falfa. However, in the case of the primary cells in the second stimulus and that goes from BFC down to IKK, so that it seems like there is like a security mechanism that makes up the pathway is only activated when you have both signals together. To give you a sense of how the algorithm finds.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
About here the underlying raw data. You can see the activation or the first phase of a kebabi down here in primary liver cells in blue and the full cancer cell lines. Here in this radius columns that are stacked on top of each other and you can see that whenever we have seen it's Alpha, either allow or with TNF Alpha. Delicate here either with or without verification editor you always get strong first release of ikappa B. However, only when you put both signals and you are not working PS3 K to get strong activation of Phi Kappa B. So given this data, given the topology, the algorithm had to play with, it came up with this description that only when you put these two ligands and there is a bathroom by, Patrick later goes all the way down there. And of course, in this question is why is this difference? So where is this coming from? What is making the cancer cells to respond differently? And this is something that.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
We don't have another answer for yet, so we're starting to look into that.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Look at what you say is looking at the different special level of some of the players here on our current. Hypothesis is that there are some things that can be explained simply by looking at different special levels, but certainly something that was simple answer and probably involve other aspects such as the mutation of proteins or many other things that you can think of.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So with that I just web app, so I showed you today about how you can take public Maps and signaling data and combine them to create some specific logic models.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So we see that this problem I've seen there are not specific, but if you try them today to you got models that are sparser so many of the links and actually matter in certain specific cell type. And then then you can use them to create some specific models that you can cluster and then you can use to pinpoint the specific differences between different cell types.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Just briefly mention some of the things we are working on now. So on the data workflow there is some research going on that I'm happy to tell you.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
The team we're looking at? The firm. That sounds like the race that saying so. Imagine Miss big and so far from different diseases.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
The source of map reduce injuries at first, but we know there are many others out there, so click. That slab is assembled together. Data from many different path resources. We're not trying to use it as a private knowledge for our approach.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
I gave him. Totally clear this is not something that will replace reversing their methods. Actually The thing is complementary. So for example, you could think of using these results as the prior to run something like what science for you today. So we're very interested in reversing in methods.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
I'm not in general, so I'm involved in needs a difficult dream, which is dialogues in reversing during assessment methods. For those of you who are not familiar with it, what happens in dream is that there are a number of challenges that are posted online and people can try to solve them. So and then in November, in a conference in New York. Hotel discussing the value added so far this year, but at Five Forks before challenges. Sorry, one is about their inference, but also other topics such as DNA binding, the Commission motives and so forth. So if you please take a look on an participate. Also if you like to think about the future challenge, contact us.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
I'm something I don't have time to discuss, but we have some. Maybe that you can use. This approach is to study drug effects. In especially the side effects of drugs in these networks, and I said we use Boolean models, but in the mean time we can do a much more refined description, use vascular Dick and this is work for Melody Marissa grad student in Tarkov burlap, when you can will include all graded responses so the models are not just Boolean and also we have ongoing work that allows to make dynamic models based on the differential equation formalism out of this model descriptions.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
And then finally at last ideas, I think that this signal models are a good place where you can try to integrate data from different levels, like genomic data, gene expression and so forth and.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Yep, I just skip this and just think a lot of people back in Boston in Peter Sagan backlash from Google App in particular Arthur Melody. Jonathan Leo could experimental work and thank you for your attention and I'm happy to answer your questions. Can you tell us a bit more about the distance metric use between between networks too? It was very simple so simply. So for each of the entities in each of the cell lines we have. You can finally others like big. Like you're saying, we have like a frequency how often they appear. Now we just see how different these this frequency is for all the edges between any pair of silence is very simple and then like you are L1 norm or Elton. I'm actually that didn't affect the results. So basically we see how many differences there. I think it's not that different from what you did when you show before is it? General question, so sorry you're finding a very sparse representation through how do you forgiven Edge? How do you quantify the strength of the evidence that that edge is there? Do you have a nice way of presenting that so, So what we do is that the. So that to us to have the first side is in a Boolean from Rabbit Limited in in quantifying the strength, because perception model is either on enough in that sense of what you can do is you can look when you look at all the model solutions that we have for each cell type. You can see how often the links appear and you see some weeks are always there, so links are never there, so weak, so sometimes there which normally reflects that either the signal has an intermediate value or that there are two pathways that can achieve the same functionality. And on the next step, we're going to use, for example, this fascinating formalism, where you can add a straight through the links. So the links are not just strong or weak, but they are intermediate. Two different degree of strength. So that's the way we do so. I'm just interested to see what sort of em piked your work has on the signaling biologists in cell signaling. Biologist that you're collaborating with. Well, I mean. So the direct collaborators I think they like it and I realize I was mentioning about where they're going to apply to different related questions. Different cases where you want to look different cell types and different drugs, how the pathways are affected, and I think there was a positive as possible where more general response was. Suppose if I know and in terms of revenues was. Apartments are great, but. But yeah, I mean I think. Yeah. Anymore questions.
