The pilot findings and within us we have the principle investigator, professor Cheryl Williams, from EU city in South Africa. So in 1994 I just finished my primary education. So three hours wasted and then 2201. Also, the experience I went through that there were very few textbooks in the library, but this books were to be used by thousands of students in the University and then there were also for compulsory courses. I mean to access Internet, majority of the respondents showed that they use mobile phones. Now we also focused on the familiarity with the digital resources. No, I also focus on use, reuse and creation of oil. And also trying to find out from which universities are there from where I get to know which University promotes what kind of device with regards to the use of or ER so there are that is that the 8% from the Tangaza University colleges, my University and then there are those from two public universities Jomo Kenyatta University and technology 19% Maseno University, which is the least 8% Great Lakes University 11%. Now use the term marginalized communities who have no idea of how to proceed with their education at various circumstances. Then when I finished my first degree. What are some of the barriers that really buy you from creating oil? What factors therefore would enhance their creation of these materials? If nothing is done about all year, this powerful tool that according to me then then maybe we will also experience our very wide knowledge gap between US and the North. I also notice that I needed an education that is open to employability and capability development. Very few percentage around 2% only talked about their awareness on the legal and licensing of oil materials. In the institution's conclusion that the survey sample 74 respondents, which is coming up to my 20% of what I anticipate using in my final findings now from the analysis, we can deduce that lecturers and students are aware of ICT resources and all year, and they also use them as a result of Internet connectivity. Now online discussions. That there there is need for I I city and oil policy instead in institutions for higher learning, and this is seen to call on the government to come up with policy decisions that are suitable to both public and private institutions, hence boosting their career incentives for those who are critical. Information need to build capacity of individuals need for better. Support the hypothesis of research that any new phenomenon needs to be pervasive in its reach. Further, the population of a new phenomenon amongst individuals and institutions must be symbiotic. The topic is the role of open educational resources in increasing entry to University education, and this is focusing the marginalized communities in Kenya marginalized communities here in for me would mean that I include nomadic communities, those who move from place to place in such of water and pasture to their animals. So to what extent do lecturers and students have access to and are able to use digital devices connected to the Internet? Now there are number of basic assumptions that I drew up from this particular research that over here can offer greater potential for Kenya and Africa to lunch. Which is open to learners needs open to apply ability and capability development and therefore I felt it right to proceed with this particular study. There are always constant review of these materials and also increase access or the knowledge to educational opportunities for all, including the marginalized groups. This does know how it does not have any bounded and therefore or your development and deployment is one part that could help us in contributing to achieving additional for all, which is one of the many development goals developed by the UN. Now my first focus on the questions that have presented was talking about or your awareness and under this particular topic, awareness of ICT resources and use of this particular resources. It seems everyone have access to Internet. This shows that 53% of the respondents were students whereas 45% were lecturers who have access to Internet at the moment or at the time of the research.