[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon everyone. My name is Judith Peter. I'm from Kenya and I'm doing my doctorate at the Open University in the Netherlands and. At the University Molecular at the Faculty of Commerce I teach finance and accounting. Ending. Best on that a. My area of interest in the forecast is on earlier and I do I. I chose this particular topic because of my life experience. There is something I'm doing a lot of passion because it's right from within me because I admire change. I admire transformation for my own people in Kenya through all year and something which is very possible as you will see from the outcome of my preliminary findings and my supervisor is a professor. Fred molder. Accompanied by two more Co promoters. Profits are Professor Dutra from Brazil. And I also have Doctor Francesco, purely an Italian by birth, but he works in my University. Duncan University College. I would also like to thank the role for the research on open educational resources that helped me to harmonize the questionnaires that I used for this particular. The pilot findings and within us we have the principle investigator, professor Cheryl Williams, from EU city in South Africa. I really have to thank this team because the power of peer review, the power of mean teamwork in terms of use, creation and reuse. Avoyelles is very, very important that is out of my experience so far. Since like doing anything on earlier then. Since this particular research was touching on people's attitudes, touching issues pertaining knowledge, and of course I'm linking this also with the practice, so I had to come up with a very, very unique model that would help me. The subway model that will help me to capture all the time required for me to get satisfactory outcome to this particular research. Therefore I used the Cup, the Cape, the Cup subway model that helped me to. Capture the knowledge which is now then the awareness of oil and then the attitudes of which according to all of us weather changes with the time. And of course the practice. There's no way we can talk about knowledge, talk about attitude without the practice into it. Therefore, because I'm also including the aspect of creation of all year within my study. So I used the CAP survey model to help me come out with what I'm going to present this afternoon. The survey population. This is a pilot study, therefore I only took 20% of what I expect to do in my final findings, and this captured 74 respondents from 4 different universities in Kenya, of which two are private institutions and two are public institutions. And then I also heard an allowance of other universities who are also willing to participate in my research and therefore others. Also came in both public and private, who also gave me their views regarding my preliminary research. What motivated?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
My PhD research I like this bit very much, 'cause that's why I say this is really important for me, because when I learned on how to use technology, that was when I was over 20 years as when I touched my first computer in life. So I said this particular tool can help transform society, especially being an African. And I know what we go through and also grew up in a village. So in 1994 I just finished my primary education. And I had to remain home for one full year because we not my mother could not afford to pay for my second education. And then in 99 I also finished my second education after I got a scholarship from a well wisher who took me through the secondary education. Then when I finished again, my second education still had nowhere to go. I had also sit home again for two more years. So three hours wasted and then 2201. I joined the University through a scholarship. And something kept ringing in my mind. What can I do also to upgrade or uplift those who are academically capable but are economically unstable? So this is really something kept triggering my mind. When I was studying my doctrate. I mean my my Dick, my first degree and then. Also, the experience I went through that there were very few textbooks in the library, but this books were to be used by thousands of students in the University and then there were also for compulsory courses. So you really have to struggle to Russia, the library to pick that book. Then you can do the assignment for you to pass the examination and remember also, my scholarship was based on my academic performance so I really had to rush and be the first to pick the books.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Now when I got my degree, my first degree in 2004, there was no job for me in so early. College hakuna kazi. There's no job. Then I was wondering what happened. I thought when I went to get my degree I'll get the best jobs and then I will be the one flying in this particular country with so much and nice things. But that was not the case. Therefore I learned how to use computer and I felt that I like this particular tool and now wonder how can technology be used to promote. Access in fact talk about a tree entry today. Entry to education for pupils the village gather. I was thinking about girls, but now I realize that I had to expand this a bit because they're more. Now use the term marginalized communities who have no idea of how to proceed with their education at various circumstances. Then when I finished my first degree. I also got another scholarship for my Masters studies and my thesis was on how the use of ICT as a strategy by the microfinance institutions in Kenya. Majority of this is we're using it as a maybe communication aid, but not as a strategy, so I wanted to find out how can. Can they also incorporate strategy? The hospital strategy in their use of ICT now in 2008? Because I kept wondering how can I use this technology to transform the society and the focus was on the marginalized groups. Now in 208 I managed to come across all year from the web. And I realize that this particular path. Can really lead us to achieve education for all respective of the agenda respective of your social economic and of course other spheres of life.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
No, not the more I get to know on here. I got struck and more interested in it for this particular knowledge now. I also felt that if something is some steps are not taken. If nothing is done about all year, this powerful tool that according to me then then maybe we will also experience our very wide knowledge gap between US and the North. So I said I have a small however little let me give it a kick off limits. Start doing something small. No through oil I came to notice a number of things and this is right from within me because it is out of my personal experience. I notice that through earlier. I needed an education. Which is open to learners need? What do I mean by that that this particular could be affordable? That can be done, doable, and which is of good quality and not boring. You know when you're in a class. Sometimes you find people dozing, some you know doing the drawing, things that you can't even define. But I wanted one also, which is at least interesting and beneficial, and this can only be experienced through the year. I also notice that I needed an education that is open to employability and capability development. If there were over here. By the time I was finishing my first degree. Then I would have wasted those many years without doing something cause I would have gotten a job because this particular location would suit the changing society and also will be relevant to the labor market that I was exposed to and as well as influencing I mean relevant to the rest for the influence of globalization, which is the rabbit rabbit. For us in Africa. And of course that will never provide their scope for new, not new skills, and that will also develop me as an individual. So what did I do?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
What is the plan to do now? I thought of a topic through the guidance of my my professors, my supervisors. That I need. The topic is the role of open educational resources in increasing entry to University education, and this is focusing the marginalized communities in Kenya marginalized communities here in for me would mean that I include nomadic communities, those who move from place to place in such of water and pasture to their animals. Can they also access education because we have a powerful tool oiler? Then I also talk about Housewives. Maybe this could not be relevant so much in Europe and America, but I believe in Africa. If you read some history that a housewife is within the villages is kind of like a prisoner, you are accustomed to, the house calls, but I believe that if they are able to access quality educational materials within their reach, they can read this particular deals. And at the same time and roll, which would be cheaper for them for the University examination. Then they can also have the degrees. I'm also focusing on the village families where. Practical example with me, those who are academically capable, but they cannot access. I mean the universe education because of economic challenges and the persons living with disabilities that those really who have no idea on where life is because some of them are ignored or abandoned. And so I really need I should do something for this particular group of people. The ones I classify to be under marginalized communities in Kenya.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Therefore I came up with a number of questions. This kept changing none then, and I hope most of the features such as we are aware that things change with the changes of time, and I accept that. So to what extent do lecturers and students have access to and are able to use digital devices connected to the Internet? And then under words that comes to the lecturers and students have access to open educational resources and how proficient are the educators in creating and or using these resources? And of course, what are students and educators perceptions regarding or ER?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Now there are number of basic assumptions that I drew up from this particular research that over here can offer greater potential for Kenya and Africa to lunch. Since it provides education. Which is open to learners needs open to apply ability and capability development and therefore I felt it right to proceed with this particular study.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Now how this therefore provide those factors that I've talked about that over here, have the potential we've also seen from my colleagues presentation answers that it reduces costs. And improves quality because their number of peer reviews. There are always constant review of these materials and also increase access or the knowledge to educational opportunities for all, including the marginalized groups. This does know how it does not have any bounded and therefore or your development and deployment is one part that could help us in contributing to achieving additional for all, which is one of the many development goals developed by the UN. Now those things are not go through very much, therefore always go straight away straighter.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The two the findings. Now my first focus on the questions that have presented was talking about or your awareness and under this particular topic, awareness of ICT resources and use of this particular resources. Now questions were derived from this particular subheading and the first was about what type of participants joined my team. As I mentioned before I, I was focusing on the lecturers and students. And we notice that I had 56% of 57% of the respondents being students and 43% of the respondents being. The lecturers and among them in terms of gender, I had 53% being male respondents and the remaining percentage were female.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
No, we I also found out access to Internet. Very interesting outcome becausw. It seems everyone have access to Internet. This shows that 53% of the respondents were students whereas 45% were lecturers who have access to Internet at the moment or at the time of the research. Meaning 98% of the apostles who were interviewed. Orua I mean who asked this question responded that they have access to Internet that is very positive for me. 'cause we're talking about all year. We need connectivity.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
No, if you access Internet. Therefore, what devices do you use to? I mean to access Internet, majority of the respondents showed that they use mobile phones. And therefore, if you are a manufacturer of mobile phones, you know where to sell them. Come to Kenya and then. That is 5% users computers or wish 25 for the lecturers were using this computer, no students, and then 10% who are aware of the tablet.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Now we also focused on the familiarity with the digital resources. Now, if we focus on these institutions, how how do they really promote? How do they really promote them? Their little that they have, whatever position they have in the University and I questioned, do they provide any induction costs or any seminars or any workshop that will also inform the new students knew lectures on the kind of device they have in the University to promote use of all year. Then I found out that the majority of these institutions do not offer induction trainings at all to I mean to showcase what they have in the University now and majority of this University also use face to face, form or model of teaching. No open learning. There's no any other, but most of them were using what using fast?

[348.0s - 377.0s]
He's now under these devices. I also found out which ones are they that were being used. I found out that. People are aware of dial-up. They're aware of the broadband and the cable, and the majority uses this particular devices member talk about the familiarity of the devices to be used while dealing with all your issue.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Wi-Fi people are aware of Wi-Fi as well, and the 3G.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So what do we end up with? Other sources suggesting that they use other form of devices to access and use or year?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Then we can definitely use that majority of the respondents are familiar with the most of the ICT devices and of course dial up and 3G being the most known devices. Hence people are aware of and use ICT devices which means that they have access to this particular resources.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
No, I also focus on use, reuse and creation of oil. Interesting responses see what is happening. We are told that we can deduce that 65% of my respondents here are aware of all year. And this includes both lecturers and the students.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And also trying to find out from which universities are there from where I get to know which University promotes what kind of device with regards to the use of or ER so there are that is that the 8% from the Tangaza University colleges, my University and then there are those from two public universities Jomo Kenyatta University and technology 19% Maseno University, which is the least 8% Great Lakes University 11%. And the other the other here. What other respondents from different universities which were not within the focus of the research? They give me, 24 percent is very very positive.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Then on the use still we notice that this sorry that is already.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Talked about now on creation or and sharing of lawyer. A question was posed that do you create oil on and share those resources? I notice that 92% of the respondents, both students and the Lakers, do not create or year and share this. Resources. Very challenging.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Now for the field. The 8% or 9% or said they create and share. I want to know what type of oil level do you share or create. Then majority talked about textbooks followed by whole costs and lectures.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Now I also got interested. Now I wanted to know what reasons but them from sharing their materials, reasons for not sharing materials, majority which is the yellow bit. So talk about having no time to create those materials. Another bigger percentages on the green one, that being their work. Being irrelevant to other colleagues to be using those particular followed by worry about intellectual theft of the ideas, another bid or another. People also talked about worry about quality of their materials and most of them do not want unnecessary peer screening of their of their work. Now.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
I got interested therefore to talk about the barriers. What are some of the barriers that really buy you from creating oil? Then I notice that lack of skills. Majority of the respondent talked about that they lack skills to create these materials and also lack time to create the the materials as well.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
No. Most of them also lack the hardware and software materials to enhance their creation of oil materials. As you can see in this percentages.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Others talked of lack of access to Internet. Therefore we need technology we. I mean we need connectivity for the creation of oil to be promoted and others talked of lack of knowledge about intellectual property, intellectual property, the Creative Commons team really need to do something because people do not really have an idea. Of what kind of licenses are left there are given unto us to be able to know our eyes, to copy, and also to promote sharing of created oil.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Videos. Thank you. No other stuff to watch. No reward system for this stuff on their term that they use and energy spent that when they will be rewarded then they will be able to produce this particular resources. Don't want compensations. Nope.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
No support from management. Some lack confidence of the quality of their materials that they produce. I don't know whether my what I produce is of quality that others can use, so there's that bit of lack of confidence to create and share.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Some also lack appropriate training on oil creation that we've also seen there.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Down there before now. What factors therefore would enhance their creation of these materials? They talked about knowledge of all your hardware, software availability.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
They also talked about hardware and software skills. You may avail the materials, I mean the softwares and hardwares. But you don't train them on how to use them. The skills to utilize those particular I mean hardware and software. Then they will be of no use. They really need that support from visual.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Also key for them to start creating and being personally awarded and the desire to reduce costs for other students. Those who want to join the universities.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Another factor was about desire to improve teaching material, improving the quality of those materials, and saving time and resources which also some factors that would really.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Motivate others to do what to create or year and recognition and cost him support who are also other.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Elements Point pointed now on policy issues. I will be very fast 'cause time is not on my side. We asked about people's knowledge on the licenses and issues pertaining an policy and as you can see none of the participants. Very few percentage around 2% only talked about their awareness on the legal and licensing of oil materials. We also.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
About policy issues creation and sharing lessons oyer none of them have created and shared license all year materials as you can.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
See from the outcome and or your policy at the University that very few 97% of the institutions do not have all your policy and therefore.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
We deduce that most of them also see the relevance of oil and therefore they promoted issue that they say that it should be promoted so that it can take shape.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
In the institution's conclusion that the survey sample 74 respondents, which is coming up to my 20% of what I anticipate using in my final findings now from the analysis, we can deduce that lecturers and students are aware of ICT resources and all year, and they also use them as a result of Internet connectivity. Now online discussions. Involving lecturers and students are not known to take place in significant ways. If, although people are aware of all year and they use or year. Now I think I talked with them about those. No, the way forward.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
That there there is need for I I city and oil policy instead in institutions for higher learning, and this is seen to call on the government to come up with policy decisions that are suitable to both public and private institutions, hence boosting their career incentives for those who are critical. Information need to build capacity of individuals need for better. Dialogical parameters for using and creating oil being crystallized.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
And finally, this insights from this research. Support the hypothesis of research that any new phenomenon needs to be pervasive in its reach. Further, the population of a new phenomenon amongst individuals and institutions must be symbiotic. Two that all year cannot succeed for sale in Kenya as an indicator of social responsibility. There has to be a viable model that can demonstrate individual additional benefits for synchronization and none of knowledge, attitude and practice.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Thank you for listening and I'm happy.
