Thanks so my name is Jason Davis and today I'll be describing some joint work with some colleagues of mine at the University of Texas. This distance function, subject to a set of linear constraints. We next show some interesting connections between our metric learning problem and a recently proposed kernel learning problem. In particular, no eigenvalue computations are needed. So the our main equivalence theorem between this lowering kernel learning problem in our problem is the following. The the product of these transformation matrices, then this is actually also an optimal solution. Of course, with the same corresponding constraints to our metric learning problem. As as you'd expect, the first one is stab Lish, is that the objectives are the same. And this also this result also builds on a recent connection between the relative entropy and of two Gaussians, Annaberg divergance. Establishes that the two problems have the same feasible set. If a parameterise is our metric learning problem IIS feasible if and only if K is feasable? So the kernel learning problem uses a method called bregman's method. It's a dual ascent method so it acts on the dual of the problem. And the algorithm works by iteratively projecting the current kernel matrix onto one constraint at a time. It can't get much faster than that in terms of work per iteration. By doing this it actually works in the kernel in factored form, so it doesn't never computes the entire kernel matrix. Perhaps, maybe the inverse of your sample covariance matrix may be a natural choice. It can easily incorporate different types of linear inequality constraints, not just pairwise inequality constraints. And we also assume that we're given a set of similarity or dissimilarity constraints. You may have some prior knowledge relating pairs of points. These so-called must links and cannot link constraints, and this is certainly one approach to incorporating that knowledge into the K means algorithm. We assume a fully labeled scenario where each input instance has a true label, and we constrain points in the same class to be similar and points in different classes to be dissimilar. We gave an equivalence between this problem and the lower rank and Anna recently proposed low rank kernel learning problem. And finally, the experimental results are promising, but definitely much more work is needed here. How should we choose the best Mahalanobis distance function? So we propose to regularize the Holy Novas distance by choosing that which is closest to sort of the baseline squared Euclidean distance. So we see here, this is just our standard multivariate Gaussian, a parameterized by me by mean M and covariance matrix equal to the inverse of a. Give a in one slide an overview of our problem formulation, so we seek to minimize the relative entropy from our Gaussian parameterized by by matrix A2. So next I'll give an overview of how we solve our model. So the first thing we do is we show that this problem is actually equivalent to a recently proposed low rank kernel learning problem by coolest. So first is that our problem objective specifically, that of computing the relative entropy between two Gaussians. It's not apparently obvious that that you can compute it simply, but you can and 2nd this equivalence shows that the problem is in fact convex. So next, I'll first give a very brief overview of the kernel learning problem. And similarly, we also assumed to have a set of similarity and or dissimilarity constraints relating the distance between pairs of points. Our objective here is to learn a kernel matrix K that minimizes the divergences decay, not subject to our constraints. So well, so given this case given Section K. It can be shown that K actually has the same range space as canine.