[0.0s - 29.0s]
The title of my PhD research topic is the impact of international organisations on governmental or your policies. Professor Moulder is the main promoter Doctor Cable, Green is the 2nd supervisor and there will be another person added in the area of Policy Research very soon.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So why am I focusing on ovr besides obvious fact that I work in the field? Have

[58.0s - 87.0s]
In arguments made that oils can contribute to make education more accessible, more affordable, efficient, contribute to improve quality, make it more sustainable, while at the same time contributing to widening access and increasing or expansion of lifelong learning opportunities. Now, since 2002, thousands of resources have been released as open educational resources, just to give examples, there are like 50,000 resource is through your comments through the Open Courseware Consortium search engine. You can identify nearly 30,000. Learning open courseware materials?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So why am I focusing on all you?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Policies because all your policies it has been argued at provincial, state, and or national levels are important in order to advance mainstreaming and uptake of oil practices in the context of opening up education.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
But my specific focus is on government lawyer policies and.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Reason for that is that in the context of widespread budget cuts, growing demand for education and the rising cost of education, governments are searching for new and innovative ways. How to make, how to address the growing demand for education for postsecondary education while making education more affordable, accessible and better quality. And so governments around the world have been proposing strategies or approving policies related to your. So during the past few years there have been notable developments in India, Netherlands, Indonesia. USA, Brazil.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
But more recently there have been developments in Slovenia. As you have heard already this morning opening up Slovenia in Scotland and Wales, Scottish Open Education Declaration, which was launched very recently in Canada. There have been the three provinces that have signed recently. Memorandum of Understanding, British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatchewan in relation to ER and in South Africa as well.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Partement of higher education and training has released a white paper on post schooling education in South Africa in January this year and the production of open educational resources features prominently in that page.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And so why am I focusing on the impact of international organisations on governmental policies and governmental oil policies?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
It's big cause international organisations are being increasingly seen as policy actors as opposed to just policy advisors or mediators. National policymaking is still largely mediated by national politics or traditions. However, it is increasingly linked to globalize policy discourses, pressures from intergovernmental organisations and or global policy networks such as I, NGOs or.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Shows and while there appears to be a consensus that about the influence of international organisations or national policymaking, little is known about whether and how these iOS influences translate into concrete national policies or how they affect national policy making in general. So normally you would have like a reference in a document to a specific document, but that's about it.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So the research, the three main research questions. What key, or your policy instruments can be additive, identified with different international organisations? What impact have this key or your policy instruments on government lawyer policies and what recommendations, if implemented, would lead to the policies more effectively supporting governmental or your policies?

[377.0s - 406.0s]
As far as the international organizations are involved out to groups, intergovernmental organisations and International non International non governmental organizations.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
From the International Government Intergovernmental Organization Group, there is a number of organisations that are going to be included, including European Commission or CD UNESCO Organization of American States, Commonwealth of Learning Organization, International International Francophonie, which is in the Francophonie world and more.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Just to give you an example, intergovernmental organizations possess a variety of influence with which they influence policy making at the national and global levels. These include, but are not limited to, producing policy reports providing financial financial support through loans and funding initiatives, data collection and analysis, sponsoring international or regional conferences or networks, and so on. Are issuing the non binding and binding guidelines or declarations. Example of. The patties or your Dick.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Nation from last year would be one such instrument. Other examples would be the ACD policy recommendations. UNESCO has also been issuing lots of policy templates. European European Commission, most notably opening up education initiative. It's a policy instrument.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And as far as the international nongovernmental organizations.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So, um. In included there are five groups. There is open Courseware Consortium, Creative Commons or your Asia or Africa Open policy network. And also like the selection criteria for including NGOs they were selected on the basis of whether they are currently influencing global policy, global or national educational policy, context or have the potential to do so in the future.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
An like with my Geos I NGOs also poses a variety of instruments with which they influence policymaking. And for example, these are just examples. This is not a complete list. This will be refined further during the research problem, providing policy reportes providing policy advice. Also data collection analysis organization, international conferences and networks. So for instance just to give an example, you are sitting here at the SWC Global conference, so this would be one of the policy instruments of the of the Open concept Consortium.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And there is also a third group that is included and these are foundations, so these are not classified under the Group of international organisations. But foundations are included 'cause they have been early catalytic players in the field, so they've been providing seed funding for your for your deleted projects and in some cases small amounts of funding led to some nationwide initiatives such as was the case in the Netherlands. So while government funding and policy is more important, it is necessary to document such processes from foundations too.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And the group of foundations that are included is Hewlett Gates Shuttleworth, Qatar Foundation Open Society Foundations I DLC from Canada and also just to give an example. For instance, Hewlett Foundation was instrumental in the setting up of the Open Courseware Consortium with the operational ground for the first three years.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So again, foundations poses a variety of policy instruments. This is just an example providing seed funding for new initiatives, organizing and sponsoring meetings with various stakeholders, or providing funding for research initiatives in order to document evidence impact.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And now to the most important parts of which governments are included. You can see this is quite an ambitious list. The countries are organized according to this table according to regions and then alphabetically respectively. So you've got there from from Africa. There is Kenya, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa from the Americas region is Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Chile, Mexico, USA, particularly looking at two states, California and Washington. From the age of the journeys, China, India, Indonesia, Mongolia, Oman, Turkey, France and then is Europe and then is Australia and New Zealand, I think it's self explanatory. The criteria for inclusion of the countries was really based on the level of progress with our policy so far, excluding daily dose that there nothing has really taken place so far and also to take into account the various levels of analysis, analysis or jurisdictions, namely provincial, state and or national.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And just a little bit about the methodology. So in relation to the international organisations, there is a variety of steps. This research is basically commencing from May, just to just so you know. But it includes a number of steps in relation to international organizations. Obviously, notification of the main stakeholders, preparation of interview protocols, interview process itself, the validation of interviews, write up and publication of results.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Relation to foundations. It is the same process and we've got tentative timelines on the right hand side.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And in relation to governments, the process is also quite similar. The difference is that this process includes identification of CPG's already include. I will explain in the next slide what it means. Basically it's it stands for country contact points for government. Then also documenting Menorial policy developments prior to the interviews with governmental representatives. Then developing interview protocols, the country contact points for governments that are going to be helping with the research. They need to be trained. And then there are the actual interviews that item in the validation of results.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So the the country contact points for governments that you saw in the previous slide. These are basically people who are going to be identified at various countries to to help identify any relevant national oil policy developments in specific countries. And this will be this specific step will precede the actual interview process with government representatives, then to also help identify and approach appropriate government representatives for the interviews. And in some cases these people will also help to carry out those interviews on behalf. Mutations such as you know a language issues or there could be issues such as like a lack of funding to travel to specific countries and so on. So this would be that all of the CPG's.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
And the final part of the methodology is really developing the recommendations based on outcomes from the research steps one to three that you saw previously.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So again, just a reminder, what the search questions are. Ah.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
And how the processes are going to the House. The research methodology going to help to answer these research questions. So the protocol interviews with the representatives from iOS will serve to identify the key or policy instruments at IO levels and to also explore the intended or observed impact of such instruments on national policy, making those answering research question one the protocol interviews with government representatives will serve to analyze the perceived impact of the key or IOR policy instruments on governmental or your policies just answering the research question 2. And finally, based on the findings from the research questions one and two, the study will provide recommendations that will lead to IOR policies and policy instruments more effectively supporting government lawyer policies.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Just some references.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
That is it.
