Ann this work is called graph based methods for retinal Masai Cinemassacre characterization. And mainly they use the work in the geometrical changes so they measure lengths, diameters and radius between the Lincoln diameter bifurcation angles to city vascular density. The match between vertices U&U prime as an outlier. Will be noted as an outlier if it breaks most of the graph structure in. In other words, if it is the one that maximizes the number of agents that differ in both graphs. And we repeat and iterate steps 1, two and three until both graphs are identical. And we re compute the corresponding KNN graphs and test the receivable for maximum metrics on diversity metrics condition. And if this condition is satisfied, then this match is considered and is is kept on the graph. But of course the bottleneck of the algorithm is the reconstruction of the computation of the graphs for every iteration, so we develop. The first one is to develop a transformation matching algorithm to allow to construct or build more Sykes of the retina fundus. Both increases as well, but the difference is about 75% improvement on the optimization results. Another kind of movement is multiple movements in this kind. And the first 2 steps that we need to follow to build such as the feature points on the matching points that we already get. Use only translations to match them, so we decided that we decided that quadratic transformation function could be a good approximation to misalignments of vessels. And we do this by by pairs basically. So the outline of the talk will be first, we're going to talk about the kind of feature instructions we were getting from retinal images. Then I'm going to describe the graph based transformation matching algorithm that we developed to in order to get the correspondences between bills. So diffusion kernels come from matrix exponentiation of the blasian metrics, and the Laplacian matrix is a difference between diagonal Dick re/max metrics and adjacency matrix, and therefore degree remains in a diagonal and may not want to place. So this is like this is information like coming from lazy random walks. So the first approach that is presented on the paper is to overload boat trips and compute the sum of square of errors that I, from the comparing the entropies of the distribution overlap is like a fast matching. This was significantly different between groups with the significant value except in the three #6, which is exactly the other way around. One of them will be a lift and the other half still children. By counting only the entropy of the nodes with the children. Information theory, way of thinking and contemplated rooted now and at this time I rooted probabilities of pure random walks. The first one was for transformation matching that has demonstrated to be fast and robust method for feature matching. From this we got the points to make a retinal sizing that in this particular case depends on the overlapping regions between images and the number of matching points. We did not find any any difference in Vienna, Austria which is also consistent with other findings on other topological measurements, and this has the advantage that the spectral descriptor is size invariant. First of all, we use multiscale differential geometry and we extract 2 tubelike geometrical features. One is the maximum value from the Hessian matrix and the other is the gradient. So we struck this information along different scales. The branching and crossing points that we are going to use as. So first of all, we get the binary image. The points of entry points to use in the match matches the algorithm. Once we have the feature points now, we're going to talk about the graph transformation matching algorithm. So each feature point will define a vertex on the graph, and now we're going to create a non directed H between the pairs of vertices, ING only if PJ is one of the K closest neighbors of Pi, and if the distance between them is less or equal to the median of all distances between the pairs of vertices.