Another project that we're doing for something called the 45th Space Wing is who are foolish enough to be located in Florida and therefore have hurricanes come in and have to shut down all their facilities. Now the the red line at the top is space with 1600 relevant axioms, including the, including the ones which to use for the proof. Psych is a large background knowledge base. We can understand noun phrases, so if you look at these two noun phrases, Renaissance artists in Bronze Age farmers, there's something similar about them, right? These particular terminal symbols, and something which is an agent, a quantity in a location together. Yesterday, winners for Dennis Failures essay halted output of 760,000 barrels a week in Marukai Bo. So it has a knowledge seeking goal of finding out what the symptoms of whooping cough are by virtue of whooping cough being a disease, the way we do that. A symptom of whooping cough is something rather it can cause something or other system of pertussis. So symptoms of pertussis such as fever in a dry cough, and we pass that back into existing psych concepts, and that gives us some hypothesis symptom of whooping cough, fever, symptom of who? One step inference to try and prove that the Air Force will prove that they are already known. Well, we can learn to understand more information, so given us it so, for example, given a set of events that cycle already knows about and these are a set of piracy events which we might have got my reading for example. You form undirected graphical models. From Weighted 1st order logical statements, there are tractable, if not fast, algorithms for learning the weights from ground clauses retractable. So this here says they have a set of cardinality of one has X is a member, then that's it is a Singleton set containing X, so you can not just represent common sense sort of things about corporations. It might mean that I'm embedded in the wall of the room. If part of you may be sticking out your in the container partially. If none of it can be sticking out, urine container closed. Is not necessarily easy and again, no more senses of the word in. Right here again, these things that only mathematicians could love, like the law of addition of probabilities, the indifference principle, and so forth, and reason about them.