So at this level we can do already things like named entity extraction. Which phrases stock mention names of people, organizations, places and so on? So here most of text related techniques actually leave, so this would be text categorization, clustering, search, summarization and so on. So where we try to where we have for the same object in the nature, several representations like textual, visual, audio and so on. But we know that people can say something about this and we ask people. Let's describe it with some text and this converges towards somehow unifying semantics of data. So we have three major dimensions. When we deal with text, so representation how we represent text techniques. Proper scientific work would typically leave down down there. The question now is where these text related technologies where they fit into Gartner Hype Cycle. RSS feeds and web services as well and technologies would be your eyes, XML, RDF hours and so on, so this would be this level and Web 3.0. Scaling the dynamics of Web 2.0 so per minute you can see that there are roughly 100 edits in Wikipedia, 200 texts and delicious. 270 images uploads to Flickr over 1000 block entries per minute and so now the question is, are we prepared really to deal with this kind of amount of data? So this in particular is this support vector machine, which is one of the most popular methods. Text manipulation typically would be search Internet search. Jaguar is very ambiguous query, so has many meanings so. So the system which we built is called search point and tries to help us. Seems not, but it is. We will have the sort of language neutral document representation and now if you have a new document, we transform a document into this language neutral document representation and. So graph network, social network analysis. So the task is the following. Are we able to say based on the text based on the vocabulary which it's used there? From which source it came? So I said we compared CNN Al Jazeera from about the same events from the war in Iraq, and basically what we did. This came out straight straight from the data. We gotta search results and on the right side we get a topic map where the same results search results would be organized in slightly different, more visual way. Integration opens really possibilities to solve problems, which certainly are not easy solvable, were not easy solvable before, so This is why we are here in the way. So let's say if we have three sentences like Tom Sawyer went to town, he met a friend. Interoperability how to connect so W 3C and all the semantic web technologies deal with this. Collaborative approaches, so as we said how to organize people to collaborate, then relation to computational linguistics. Knowledge acquisition is extremely important area which relates with most of these other areas. Who has a motive for assassination of Rafik ready? Computational linguistics linguistics would have separate set of events ACL, so Association computation, linguistics and European version and North American version and Semantic Web has international version, European version and Asian version.