Yeah, quantum information and the brain so. My challenge is going to be to speak for 45 minutes about an intersection of two fields. OK, so often you know the case that you know quantum mechanics might have something to do with cognition is parodied as the argument from 2 mysteries you know the mind is mysterious. Basic idea is that a general entangled state of N qubits, you actually require something like 2 to the N amplitudes to specify OK, because you've got to give another amplitude for every possible configuration of all end of the bits. OK, and this presents. And obviously you know practical problem known for many decades to people who try to use conventional computers to simulate quantum mechanics. OK, you know that you get an exponential slowdown with the number of particles, but you know then. I think that if we ever get practical quantum computers actually simulating quantum physics will probably be the main thing that they're used for. You know quantum computer just recently was reported to a factor 21 into 3 * 7 with high statistical confidence. From its environment, however, in less quantum mechanics is wrong. You know there doesn't seem to be any fundamental obstacle. In the case of classical computing you know it took more than a century from Charles Babbage to the invention of the transistor that finally made the idea practical. So contrary to almost every popular article which is ever been written on this subject, a quantum computer would not let you try all answers in parallel and instantly pick the best one. That's the P versus NP problem. OK, so now you might ask, OK, but could a quantum computer solve NP hard optimization problems? For example problems arising in machine learning in polynomial time by exploiting the problem structure in the same way that a classical algorithm would exploit their structure? So what we know today is that on some fitness landscapes, the adiabatically algorithm can reach a global minimum exponentially faster than classical simulated annealing. But isn't there this company that's, you know already? In other words, it remains consistent with what we know today that what D Wave has done is basically to build like a very fast special purpose classical computer for simulated annealing. OK, so here's a one theorem that I that I proved that says given any N qubit states, I suppose that you only care about size behavior on two outcome measurements in some finite set S. OK, then there exists a subset of those measurements quality of a very small size only N Logn measurements, such that basically if you did a training process where you sort of started with the. I you know on well enough to sort of reproduce, you know, the probability that you're going to get a yes, you know under 2 to the end different measurements and we can do that. It says given an N qubit states, I suppose you only care about its behavior on two outcome measurements that are drawn from some probability distribution D. OK, then what you could do is draw some sample measurements M1 up to MK you independently from D and the number of such measurements only has to be linear, not exponential with the number of qubits. OK, so even sample measurements then find. Any hypothesis, state fee that approximately agrees with PSI. Your target state on all of those sample measurements. As a hypothesis class, you use quantum information ideas, again based on quantum mechanical linearity to show to upper bound the fat shattering dimension of quantum states. On the other hand, as soon as we start thinking about this, you know we notice an obvious problem of scale. Here we're looking at, you know maybe 10 to the minus 3 seconds. This is the principle that says that there is no physical procedure to copy an unknown quantum state. You know you've heard that information wants to be free, but quantum information wants to be private in some sense. That will implement quantum key distribution. OK recently with Paul Christiano we showed that under some cryptographic assumptions, you can even get quantum money that can be verified by anyone, not only the bank. Eizabeth lets you evaluate some function F on input sex of your choice, but that you would not be able to efficiently use to learn the function F, or indeed to prepare anymore states with which F could be evaluated. OK so alright, but now let me ask in my remaining few minutes, is quantum mechanics relevant to biology? Well at a small enough scale you know we now know the answer is certainly yes, right? The reason why it's able to be as efficient as it is at harvesting photons, you know, fundamentally has to do with a coherent quantum optical effect. Well, you know, now let's ask, you know, so is quid quantum mechanics be relevant to the brain, so you know there are three proposals that I've seen for how it could conceivably be relevant. OK, the first proposal would be that the brain is literally a quantum computer that can run the quantum adiabatic algorithm or Shor's algorithm or whatever. And the third proposal. Would be that there are quantum mechanical limits on the physical predictability of the brain. Well, we've already discussed that idea. But now I want to make a different point, which is that you know, even if you forgot about the physics, there were other severe problems with this idea that I think are just as important. You know? OK? OK, even with no conscious observers for lightyears around, you know otherwise. OK, but now, what about quantum limits on predictability and this will be my last thing Alright Well, let's consider faxing yourself to another planet like in Star Trek OK. It's important. OK, so you know you start thinking about these puzzles, which philosophers love to talk about, you know? There's a whole huge literature on these things and you start scratching your head over all these these, you know, bizarre puzzles and you start thinking you know, wouldn't it be great if there were some sort of principle of non clone ability that prevented the sort of metaphysical craziness from ever rearing its head if they wait a minute, you know, and then you say, well, such a principle might also prevent Deutsches many worlds. Does the no cloning theorem actually put interesting limits on our ability to put a copy to cognitively relevant information in a brain? And I think that there's like a spectrum of scientific opinion on this question, which ranges from, you know, obviously not look. This is at least this is what my friends in the Singularity movement tell me. So my view is that barring a scientific revolution, you know debates about quantum mechanics and mind, you know will just continue popping up like whack a mole. But you know, it's questionable if any of them have OK, so my modest goal in this talk is very modest talk. OK, it's going to be to explain, you know various discoveries in the fields of quantum computing and information that might bear on these debates. And here is, well, what exactly counts as the cognitively relevant information you know? Does it include only the sort of macro information about the neurons or you know, does it include like the quantum states of the individual sodium ion channels and so forth mean? He says we should doubtless kill an animal if we tried to carry the investigation of its organs so far that we could tell the part played by the single atoms and vital functions. The idea suggests itself that the minimal freedom we must allow the Organism will be just large enough to permit it, so to say to hide its ultimate secrets from us. So in conclusion, you know several speculations that one hears, for example, that the brain is a quantum computer or that its activities needed for wavefunction collapse. I think are profoundly implausible and not only on physical and biological grounds, but on logical and computational grounds as well. And unlike with a lot of these sort of big questions, you know here I think that there's a serious prospect that progress in neuroscience and physics and machine learning could actually tell us more. So the first thing I've got to do is explain quantum mechanics in one slide so you know I can actually do this because you know, I mean, I mean, the physicist somehow convinced everyone that quantum mechanics is complicated and hard. OK, so you know the way that I think about quantum mechanics, the way that most of us in quantum computing do, at least most of the time. What do I mean? By taking that vector of probabilities and multiplying it by a matrix which has to conserve, you know the one norm or the sum of the probabilities. OK, now quantum mechanics is just the same thing except it now instead of a vector of non negative real numbers, we're going to have a vector of complex numbers and instead of conserving the one norm of the vector, we're going to conserve it. OK, now the source of all quantum weirdness. OK, you can see that just by considering the simplest possible quantum system. A single quantum bit or qubit? Crucially, whatever answer it gave, it sticks with it OK, it sticks with its story if you ask it a second time, you know it tells U0, and you measure a second time. Just two qubits side by side. OK, now the deep mystery of quantum mechanics. You know, uh, so to speak is well. OK, so this qubit simply gets entangled with you. Or you could say look there has to be some kind of radical new physics that says that once a state superposition gets up to some scale of complexity or mass or something, then something new comes in and forces it down to a classical outcome. OK, or you can just say, well, shut up and stop asking the question. They're just straightforwardly real and not only that, there is an experiment that could demonstrate it. Furthermore, can you know can be manipulated in quantum superposition states alright, fine, after you've done that, Step 2 is to put this computer into a superposition of thinking one thought and thinking another one.