This is basically just saying we want each one of these means to be in kind of as high density or region as possible. By setting it to negative Infinity. An when we optimize the means, we actually ignore that Hessian trace term, so that's sort of like instead of taking a second order approximation where only optimizing the 1st order approximation when we're when we're fitting those means. Computing a quadratic number of their derivatives, and another thing that it actually does is it avoids possible degeneracies if we have non log concave posteriors. And then then taking a diagonal Laplace approximation. That are not zero, and then you wind up with our algorithm, which you can sort of think of as a form of mixture, mean field which has. We compared the performance of nonparametric variational inference against we compared its ability to approximate the posterior of logistic regression model. On in terms of future work, there's certainly a few things to consider. Big restriction is we don't really have a way of dealing with discrete random variables in this framework. Whatever that maybe with some tractable distribution Q of data, and we're going in the basic idea is to sort of frame the problem of approximate inference as an optimization problem. The sort of most commonly used mean field variational methods have the advantage that they can often converge to their ultimate destination much faster than Markov chain. And So what I'm going to talk about is this nonparametric variational inference algorithm, which gets around these problems that we can so we can apply it to models that don't enjoy conditional conjugacy. So basically if you can evaluate the log posterior up to a constant, compute its gradient, and ideally compute the diagonal of the Hessian of the log posterior, then you can immediately apply this algorithm so it's not sort of a different thing every time. The basic basic heart of the approach is is this idea that sort of inspired by kernel density estimation, where we'd like instead of approximating a distribution that we get to observe samples from, we're going to approximate a distribution that we only know up to this normalizing constant, and so basically what we're going to do is we're going to restrict this distribution Q over our overall parameters to be a mixture of Gaussians, and specifically a mixture of isentropic Gaussians. So sort of traditional variational objective, sometimes called the evidence, lower bound or elbow for short is this expression here so and this. The expected log density of under the posterior of of your parameters. This expression is sort of like log average log density times log volume if you will. Taylor series expansion around the mean of each Gaussian component and then the second term. The even though we're using the multivariate Delta method which uses this full second order Taylor expansion that you know in theory would be sort of quadratic to compute.