Some temporal information in the Elodie cloud. So first of all we have temporal information that we consider as a ternary relation that hold between elements. It can represent a resource or a graph between an element a which represent the property between an element T which represent a temporal entity, and this temporal entity can be timestamp or a time interval. So temporal information is considered to be a temporal meta information only if timestamps and time intervals are associated to truth value elements. So in the document centric perspective we identified first protocol based representation where the temporal meta information is associated to the HTTP header of the document and it's not inside the document and in that. And then we have the four diffluence based representation. It's not adopted in the BDC. RDF is not identified in the BTC. And according to the publisher, we invite the publisher to provide the last modified field in the HTTP header. Recommend to the user to use the apply temporal RDF since it represents quite a more expressive language, so we can also insert. Difficult to be identified, but from the publisher side we can say that any other relationship, although it's complex, it's used because for complex modeling but and it has also a huge flexibility. And some of the future works to conclude is so first I would suggest as a future work the providing model independent techniques that could be able to track the modification of documents or triples. Also, for the assessment of temporal data qualities in linked open data, it is relevant to work with temporal meta information. Probably most of you have notice that there are also temporal metadata associated to them. What about the temporal metadata in the web of data? So he used to play for AC Milan till this summer 2012, but actually he moved to another team that is Inter. Temporal validity of statements, data Fusion and integration, temporal data exploration, temporal entity matching, currency of states. So what are the research questions? So what our work want to answer? First of all, it is important to understand the current status of temporal information published as linked data. Distributed processing of large datasets.