[0.0s - 29.0s]
Today I'm going to give a talk about the diverse diversity and availability of information of temporal information in linked open data, and this is a work in collaboration with some colleague of mine from University of Milano Bicocca and other colleagues from Karlsruhe Institute of Technology. So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the outline that of this presentation is as follows. First of all, I will introduce you the motivation and the research question. Some temporal information in the Elodie cloud. Generic analysis of temporal information, and then I will give a definition of temporal meta information as a specialization of temporal information, and then I will follow. The presentation will follow with temporal meta data information. Analysis and then to conclude some guidelines are provided for the consumer and publisher and then some future works. So.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
How?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
What we consider is relevant to maybe most of you have have. Have had the experience of doing a search in a search engine and usually when you insert the keywords you will retrieve a list of results of documents and associated to these documents. Probably most of you have notice that there are also temporal metadata associated to them. And the fact that these temporal meta data are there is because we we try to follow or we tend to. To retrieve or to get the most recent result. So this is kind of a guide or address to the user to get the most recent result and.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
What about the temporal metadata in the web of data? Since it is, it is considered to be dynamic, so most of us will be interested to know how much up-to-date are the information over there. So I tried this experiment in November 2nd of this year and I was looking for an Italian soccer player. Antonio Cassano and I was interested to know which is his current team and from here from Sigma I can see that he is playing for AC Milan. What does it mean? So I'm quite. I can, I am quite confident that the information is updated since it is associated to a property that tell me about the currency of the team. So but actually.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
If I want to be sure about this information, I go outside of link data somewhere in the web, and then I can check that the information is not valid anymore. What does it mean? So he used to play for AC Milan till this summer 2012, but actually he moved to another team that is Inter. So if I had had the temporal information or a validity interval associated to the fact, or at least to the document, I could better I could better explain the current state of this information but temporal meta.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Data are not relevant only for expressing the currency of of the facts or documents. They are also relevant for other application and the research areas in particular. Here we can see temporal query answering the search. Temporal validity of statements, data Fusion and integration, temporal data exploration, temporal entity matching, currency of states. Documents and analysis of provenance of information. So the capability of designing effective solution depend on the availability of temporal meta information.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So what are the research questions? So what our work want to answer? First of all, it is important to understand the current status of temporal information published as linked data. And this is fundamental for application that deal with the dynamism of the data. In this work, we investigate temporal information published in linked data on the web by analyzing its availability and characterization, both from quantitative and qualitative perspective.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So first of all, in now I will give you an overview of temporal information that are present in Elodie.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
To do that, we used data, set the billion triple challenge data set that they represent one of the biggest data set extracted from the Elo deep, and it represents also in the same time the difficulty to deal with large huge amount of data. So for that we used Apache Hadoop in order to deal with parallel. Distributed processing of large datasets.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
As you can see from this first analysis here, we rank the top 20 pay level domains and from this domains you can see that there are several's that use temporal information and some of them comes from governmental data. Some others come from news data and social data or also cyantific. Data and here we can notice that in the ranking that I give here is based on the temporal quotes. So if I consider the first level domain, I can see that the ratio of the temporal quotes over all the quotes in this particular domain is not that high. If we compare it, for instance to the music brain. So it is important also to see from this analysis, so the availability of temporal information it's related also to the amount of quadruple quadruples present in pay level domain. We also can notice from this table that in legislation.gov.uk we have almost 100% of document documents annotated with temporal information and also this is possible in the livejournal.com. We continue the analysis by also providing the top 20 temporal properties having. During most frequently and as you can notice from this analysis, the properties that occur quite often are those deriving from the Dublin core vocabulary, and we maybe can notice from this presentation this table that there is a property that represents an anomaly. Because this is similar to this, a term but is different because. It contains a hash and this property is not defined in any vocabulary and we could identify that the only pay level domain using this property was the sign at Dot org.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So now after we had this big picture of temporal information in Elodie, now we want to present is to give a definition of temporal meta information. So first of all we have temporal information that we consider as a ternary relation that hold between elements. First element is. X, which represent a statement. It can represent a resource or a graph between an element a which represent the property between an element T which represent a temporal entity, and this temporal entity can be timestamp or a time interval. So temporal information is considered to be a temporal meta information only if timestamps and time intervals are associated to truth value elements. This truth value elements we refer to only graphs and statements. The truth valued elements can have a property and then. A temporal entity to explain it better. Let's see, for instance, with this example we can have. In the first case of temporal information, these two kind of representation one is a resource associated with the date and in the second case we have documents associated with a date in the temporal meta information we consider only the second, the second triple since. It is associated to a graph. What we called truth value element. And this is important in case we have to deal with this dynamism of the data. So we want to associate the creation, modification or the validity to statements and graphs.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Then OK, now we have identified in literature several approaches how to represent temporal information in linked data. And two core perspective that we identified are document centric perspective and fact centric perspective. In the first case we have those documents associated with temporal information and in the second case we have facts associated with temporal information. Here in the fact centered perspective we make a further distinction between sentence centric perspective and. The relationship centric perspective. The difficulty of dealing with temporal information that are related to facts is becausw. We add a further dimension to the triples and it cannot be represented in a triple based logical model, so that's the need of using. Several approaches to to deal with this problem.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So in the document centric perspective we identified first protocol based representation where the temporal meta information is associated to the HTTP header of the document and it's not inside the document and in that. In this case we could identify from the BBC that we extrapolated 1000 documents. And from this 1000 documents we checked which of them were adopted with the last modified field, and we retrieved only 95 documents.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
In the document centric perspective, we have also the approach of meta database representations. So the temporal information that is. Introduced in the document in the RDF document and express, it can express modification or creation or an update of the document, and in particular this representation in the BDC. We also used sampling. We extracted 1000 your eyes from this your eyes. We automatically distinguish between those. That are documents and those that there are that are not documents and checked for a team for a temporal meta information. And the check was done manually.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Then in the centrics center sentence centered perspective, we have, we identified the ratification based representation. So here the statement is verified by using a blank node or by using a resource and to this blank node. Then we associate the temporal property and then the temporal entity and in the BTC we could. Identify this. This approach by using by retrieving all the RDF. Levigation predicates and from this we could retrieve 2637 cases and here.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Here we have another approach that introduced the name temporal named Graph. What does it mean that if we have a statement and we want to classify it in so in which time interval it belongs to, we have to identify if there is. Girl named Graph already exists in, otherwise we have to add a new temporal named graph and add the triple. So the worst case by using this approach is that we can have. Many, many state many temporal name graphs as. As the number of statements, this approach wasn't identified in the beta SIM. For further, you can see the paper for the experiments that we provided.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Regarding the relationship centric perspective, here we objectify the relation and to the relation that we objectified. Then we add the temporal information from the experiment we used the following pattern. So then that is defined by the W 3C and extract all from this result. We extracted only sample of 100 cases of any relationship and from this 100 cases we checked manually and we could identify only 12 of them where they are the right that could be classified classified as the right and our relationship.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And then we have the four diffluence based representation. Here we have the the concept of influence that are properties that hold in a specific moment in time. And here we use also the concept of time slices. So it means that for each entity we create a time slice and then we add the temporal interval to this time slices. So this approach represents advanced reasoning, but probably because of its complexity. It's not adopted in the BDC.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And here is the table that summarizes all the results that we retrieved from our analysis. And here we can notice that the document centric perspective has more temporal information associated rather than the fact centered perspective. Also, we can notice in the protocol it contains much more last modified. Elements rather than other temporal information included in RDF documents. For their ification as we expected, we retrieve a small amount of temporal information that uses this approach. Applied temporal. RDF is not identified in the BTC. An energy relationship represent the highest number of temporal information that are associated to fact, but still we can say that we have allow availability. Of temporal meta information. If we if we refer to the research areas and the applications that are strictly related to the temporal meta information, we also have high diversity in models or approaches that are used for representing. The approaches that are used to represent temporal maintain information and also we have diversity in vocabularies. So if we want to identify if this is a property used for temporal meta information, then we have to have a. We need to have a big picture. What are the vocabularies or the properties that are used for this case? And then we have. An automatic interpretation. So the automatic interpretation of processing is not trivial, and this is related to what I said also in advance that we for some cases we had to check manually becausw to identify that it is a pattern that relates to an earlier relationship or to meta data meta data based representation. It can be done automatically, but when we come to identify if it's. Associated to a truth value element, we need to do it manually.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And in conclusion.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Here are some of the guidelines where we. Identify for each perspective from the consumer and publisher side. So the idea here is for the consumer, you can first try to retrieve the temporal meta information that are associated to the protocol based since we also identified in further analysis that it seems that the protocol base when it is present is much more updated than the metadata based representation. And according to the publisher, we invite the publisher to provide the last modified field in the HTTP header. Also, there would be a mechanism that every time that we change the document, the temporal meta information that are associated to the RDF document can be updated automatically. And.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Regarding to the fact centric perspective here regarding the ratification, how to retrieve it? We already explained and according to the publisher, we invite the publisher to avoid if it's possible. This representation, since it will bring complexity in query answering. And if it's possible we. We will say we we. Recommend to the user to use the apply temporal RDF since it represents quite a more expressive language, so we can also insert. We can also provide this sparkle queries that can be applied over a data set to retrieve temporal information and to conclude for the inner relationship it is. Difficult to be identified, but from the publisher side we can say that any other relationship, although it's complex, it's used because for complex modeling but and it has also a huge flexibility.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And some of the future works to conclude is so first I would suggest as a future work the providing model independent techniques that could be able to track the modification of documents or triples. Also, for the assessment of temporal data qualities in linked open data, it is relevant to work with temporal meta information. So to deal even in the case where this temporal meta information is not 100% complete and 3rd, we also are trying to adapt the temporal method information to introduce them. In the query answering and search that has to deal with temporal information an at the end. This version of the paper is an ongoing work where we are also trying to provide more experiments and more assessment between the several approaches and to have an extended version of it soon. Thank.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Kill for your attention.
