City and his interest come from different areas, mainly DNA, computers and machine learning and bioinformatics and of course grammatical inference. An International Society for Computational Biology, and he's talked today will be about biomolecular computing of finite state automata, so thanks thank you very much for your introduction. The computer is computer in vitro and in vivo. So fundamentally we use DNA sequences are used to encode information, while enzymes enzymes is a function of proteins that can be employed to the simulator simple computations. You don't need to care clinic so we have initial as finite number of States and initial state final state and you have state Rancho functions. So we encode state transition function from state I to the state J with input simple A as follows. Then by using this encoding so we encode input string as follows. Then we put the some DNS run into these issues and we call this type of DNA strand is single stranded so they doesn't have any a complementary sequence here. Then now we consider the input string 010. So we carefully designed this DNA sequences. OK, so the next the experimental result is we have the same input strings, but we use a different finite automatons. So we employ the protein synthesis systems. That is a very precise molecular machine to sensor proteins. Then the nature need to encode the 20 amino acid sequence using 4 letters. So in the end we have a team, but when the DNA transcribed into the Messenger on this tea is replaced with you. Then the translation of the Messenger into the sequences simulate. The computation process of finite automata. So we have won this state On this date on this input symbol is only only one. Sequence here at it contains stop stop codon. So in this science papers he proposed some method to solve the instance of directed. Of course, I'm originally the computer scientist, so I need to build the wet laboratory from zeros, but now I have finished the almost completely travel trees so you can do the almost all molecular biology techniques involve hours, for example Cloninger confident DNA or electrophoresis or competency operation in E. Coli or design plus middle of this year and and also these are the P1 level of the laboratories. Then the next one is the separation of DNA strand by length using a directory gel electrophoresis. So every almost every student in the molecular biologists do this can do this operations, so we separate them by their length. So by managing the temperatures you can do the melting or kneeling. OK, so the other things are the derivation process of the computer becomes just a sequence of test shoes. Sometimes there's the following reasons. So we developed the two methods to the finite automata implement final model in vitro and implement finite water in both.