So my goal for today is to illustrate some points of contact between learning theory and algorithms game theory. These always exist, that's what Nash proved, but some of the greatest hits out of algorithm game theory actually explain why mixed Nash Equilibria are in some sense and intractable solution concept. It's striving for price of anarchy bounds that apply beyond Nash equilibrium. They do not just apply to Nash equilibria, they actually apply to every possible outcome sequence generated by players achieving no regret. But then the extension theorem will be sort of a compiler, and it compiles this bound just for pure Nash equilibria into a robust bound that holds for all outcomes generated by no regret learners. That's what we want because we want to conclude. It be a lot simpler if we only had to worry about some very simple concepts like pure Nash equilibrium. OK, so that's the that's the point of the extension theorem, you just glue it together with a pure Nash equilibrium bound and you get the kind of theorem you want. I guess we also know that the objective function is the sum of the player costs. So let's start with that cost of the equilibrium expand. So the key definition is out of a game. So here the goal is to prove approximation guarantees for game theoretic equilibrium. The issue is the traditional reliance on a common prior. Statistical learning theory. Learning theory offers a very attractive framework for replacing this op priore known common prior with a more data driven approach, i.e. This is copied from the last slide we got this inequality display applying the Nash equilibrium apophysis because the game is smooth. As in, you can actually establish this definition and applications that people care about. We're thinking about the same players playing the game day after day after day, say capital T days. So for a fixed player, I and affixed deviation Qi, the average cost that the player in curd over the sequence should be no worse than the minimum average cost it could have attained in hindsight. I'm not going to worry about the convergence rate, but the understanding is that T is reasonably big and this is going to zero with T. So that's a no regret sequence, and now the proof of the extension theorem really just writes itself OK, so let me show you that if you have a smooth game and you. Go ahead and think of F is like uniform on a suitable suitable support if you like. Optimal solution to this auction design problem? The only thing we needed to know was the reserve price. So for example, sometimes you'll have will very often or not very often, but will sometimes award the item to a bitter other than the highest bidder. The problem is, where does the prior come from? Especially given that the result of the theory the optimal auction, depends in such a sensitive way about your assumption of the details of this prior. Erm, type learning algorithms, so we're quite pleased with the sample complexity bounds that we had in the settings that we have. So the idea of the price of anarchy is to compare two different things. So let's evaluate this Nash equilibrium. So by definition the price of anarchy is simply the ratio of these two quantities. An we prefer most conservative worst case bounds, so there's other alternatives, but will only look at bounds that apply to every single equilibrium. OK, the worst case equilibrium.