So here's a proof by pictures. It has a universal proof of correctness. Of course you don't need to know P of X you do. This is a cable set top box. But the fact that it works in millions of devices means we should pay attention to it and try to see can we use this for blind image deblurring? And we're going to search for X&K such that Y is when we blur X with K, we get Y and we make X is non Gaussian as possible. This should if the derivatives are IID, this algorithm will probably find the blur kernel, and this Matias goes. OK, so here's the algorithm we're given Y, which is a blurred image. I make exit non Gaussian as possible so we minimize absolute. Plus this term, these are these map global map algorithms that do map both an X on K. So this algorithm is guaranteed to fail. Then you're guaranteed to succeed. Yes, this is guaranteed to succeed. So that can be seen as a special case of this class of algorithm. Witcher map XC with bilateral filtering algorithms? So what is this bias? And it also suggests looking at iterative algorithms that people in communication theory or familiar with that have this global convergence. OK, so I'm done at the title of the talk is old and new algorithms for blind deconvolution. Some of these algorithms are guaranteed to fail, but they still work even when they're not supposed to. They have universal guarantees, global convergence, and I think the most important thing they used in millions of devices, probably as in this room we probably have many devices that use some variant of this algorithm. And I think this connection can help us understand and improve image blurring algorithms. In fact, it often works well in practice if you don't keep iterating it. This will succeed this, on the other hand. So if you globally optimize this, we show that's guaranteed to fail, and yet there's been a number of papers who use it, and the question was why does it work? I didn't want to go into that proof, but even with the two tap filter, you already guaranteed to be more Gaussian than the original 1. We went and read a little bit about what people in communication systems do. A corollary of this is that actually some of these math XK algorithms, the ones that, as I mentioned earlier, are guaranteed to fail, can be thought of as doing an approximation to these old algorithms, and that can explain some of their success. Linear combination of X at different delays where you know the signal reverberates through the medium and basically the received signal. Transaction communications in 1980, which does blind deconvolution. It's based on the central limit theorem. What they point out? Then the original signal I'm really that, all that is, is the central limit theorem. So one thing is, we're not going to solve for K. The Unblocker will suffer the inverse filter. As long as the X is where ID this is guaranteed to find the correct inverse filter and there are no local minima. This original signal is IID, so any convolution of it is always going to be more Gaussian than the original X.