[0.0s - 29.0s]
Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, I'm this talk I'm. We want to present here the biometric method. To prepare the coatings on Ciconia and alumina ceramics and characterization of those codes.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
First, the problem. These are the bones of the hip and this is the hip implant. Usually the materials that can be used for weight carrying bones. Need some special mechanical properties and today mostly is used titanium and titanium alloys, cicconi mark site, and alumina ceramics. Unfortunately, all those materials are bio inert, which means they don't react with the body. Also the body when those materials are implanted in the body, the body forms a fibrous tissue around it and especially in the case of hip or knee implants, when you get movements in all directions, this fibrous tissue can grow really thick, sometimes up to few 100 micrometers. And because of that, the implant loses quickly and what leads to a clinical failure? The problem can be solved with with the use of bio active materials such as hydroxyapatite, bio active glasses and some other calcium phosphate compounds as well. But mechanical properties of those materials do not allowed it to be used as a weight carrying bone implants. Therefore the idea. It's been thinking about you a lot too late for the last few years at least. It's coating of bio inert material with the bio active material. That would be. That would be a way to solve this problem to get bio active implant with with proper mechanical properties.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Usually. The plasma coating is is performed, but there are several problems connected to this method. You cannot control the thickness, specially when the surface of your implant is not flat. You cannot control the compound. You will get this high temperature method. And so we use the biomimetic method. This method emits, imitates the crystallization of bone, which is mainly made out of hydroxyapatite from the solution. We used highly suckers, highly saturated calcium phosphate solution. And with soaking in this solution. We got the coatings and the method.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Was really fast or after already 2 hours we get this thin layer of nanoparticles. And because the adhesion of this coating was really bad, we Additionally heat treated it.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And after heat treatment at 1000, five 1050 degrees C for one hour, we get individual crystals. The crystals will grow larger, the adhesion was better. And the.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Two things was really homogeneous to all the surface.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
With prolonging the time of soaking, of course, the coating with thicker. This is after 27 hours.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And with firing it, we got the common genius polycrystalline. Surface. But the question was what is this?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Made up it one sort of calcium phosphide that far we could tell. We made the simple SBF test as bareface simulated body fluid fluid and in the literature you can find information it is used to test the bioactivity of the material. We sucked our coated materials into SBF solution and after a few days additional layer of of nanoparticles were formed which is proved to be bio active and bio active us our coating before and after heat treatment but still.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
What it is? This is the coating as received after soaking into calcium phosphate. Solution is composed of nano sheets.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Simitli, 5 nanometers thick. Electric electron diffraction pattern show that that individual ship is composed of smaller crystals because we got rings and this simulation. Is in a way fitting with the crystal structure of hydroxyapatite, but the rings are very dispersed, so it's not. It could be hydroxyapatite. I don't dare to say it for sure. Up there.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Before. We used Excel X Ray diffraction. Analysts as well, but mostly we can see just the pics according to our substrate. We can see just two to region where the intensity of the background was.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
It's a little bit higher if you look closely. This two spots are. The same position as the main pics of hydroxyapatite is but still. We cannot say it from the X Ray diffraction pattern. What is the crystal structure of those those nanoparticles? A difference.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Please after heat treatment now all the pics are matching with hydroxyapatite so we can say yes after after heat treatment we do have hydroxyapatite. But still.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
What is before we did this firing of our coatings? We used electron energy loss spectroscopy to figure that one out. According to the literature you can. Distinguish between the hydroxyapatite and other culture in post fight. If you observing the oxygen edge. Of in spectrum, and that's what we also saw in in our spectros. And from now on I will just show you this region after the background removal and remove it.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Effects of pure scattering. These are two Spectra taken from our standard, the blue ones, hydroxyapatite and the red one is tricalcium phosphate. There is also the same as it was written in the literature, hydroxyapatite oxygen edge as splitting and tricalcium phosphate edge. Is this just one osymetric pig? So from this sectors of our standards we could see that we can distinguish the difference between two of them.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So we checked our sample. And yes, this right here. Was taken from the sample of our coating after soaking into kiting foresighted solution before heat treatment and we can see the splitting up of oxygen edge. Therefore we can say that we have a hydroxyapatite crystal structure of those nanoparticles in our coating. We also check the. The crystalline particles that were formed from the simulated body fluid and by activity test and also it's proven to be hydroxyapatite.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So. To conclude. Bio active coating, sun illuminance, Iconium ceramics was synthesized using biomimetic method of soaking in calcium phosphate solution. The adhesion of the coating was improved by heat treatment. And it was founded, the coating before and after heat treatment. Was composed of hydroxyapatite so.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Thank you very much.
