Why are they so difficult to diagnose and can we even diagnose them first after that burst? Phenomenon the same term, new economy was hot in the speech in the discussion before the crash of October 29, the new economy at the time was the utilities was also hot in the minds and the discussion before the crash of 60 two 1962. There was also crashed. Here I've just put together in different colors to have some nice slide, different price trajectories that has have translated in time so that they are all coincident on this graph in terms of the time of the crash, which is not really shown. With values for concealed, of course, but seems to be very robust feature and my preferred case of course is the Hong Kong market. The average growth is never embodied by the real dynamics of the market. I'm going to try to substantiate this claim is the revelation of an instability that has been progressively developing the system over the development of the bubble. And here I'm looking at model growth of population. But it's the same thing for an economy where you have this proportion growth and the which was proposed by Melters and who leads, you know these pessimistic economists to conclude that. This is negligible when the person that flower and then these are saturation. Many actually, I'm not going to have spend time detailing any of them, but just for the sake of completeness, there are of the technical and rational type and they are of the behavioral type. Hurting imitation is something that doesn't ring nice when you think of the standard economic model of more economicus rational person, and so trying to optimize having or information and infinite computational abilities. Of Herbert Simintov bounded rationality, we know that we have bounded. This is a very nice database made by some of the top. Something that exists for long time, actually from the theory of planet formation, solar system, equation of. I don't have time to go into specifics, but this kind of model can be agent. We at the Federal Reserve recognize that despite our suspicions, it was very difficult to definitely identify above or until after the fact. If the agents over learn about this because they use Bayesian learning, they may be tempted to actually overweight the social imitation factor or overweight the impact of the news, and then heard collectively and create these bubbles and crashes. For example in the UK and this is one of the example where Roger we did identify the level in advance. The foundation of the United States United States. Now let me finish with the next few minutes with. The cause of slaving of the Fed to the stock market. And not just look at the daily returns. Because the distribution of returns do not see do not exhibit any special behavior. This evidence and our proposition to the ferry that maybe with these transdisciplinary approaches, complex system approach should put much more emphasis on the. Interplay between these negative certainly but positive feedbacks which are called procyclical. Important issues, but nevertheless we issued actually in May report showing that first yes, we believe there is a degree of speculation with a sibling component in the appreciation of the oil price. So my main message those I tried to tell you about. You want and everywhere you want to play in Canada flys safely and so you want to predict when they're going to fail. The major obstacle is to know how to reconstruct the global picture. And so I think the example of the Soviet Union is a case in point here. Very nice concept for simplifying, but of course destroids or possibility of having a theologians behavior and then to see how this intelligently aggregates into the singularity or this global information about the crisis. I can't make this analogy, but how would be assessed with the explanatory role of Derek's work rice? It is post based always correct to the to their history. Well the other question was was there. What kind of unusual do the oldest difficult task age bias from multiple samples being independent and everything? You pull around this table here in this room the opinion, and we think the average the answer will be pretty good.