And it's about thinking about how to deal with the challenge of information overload. Anne, what definitely did and I'm not going to have a lot of time to talk about this or any time to talk about this is even though there's no edges in the data set, should define a very natural random walk based algorithm that measures influence between pairs of articles with respect to a particular word, even though there's no links. If you notice, the one that's changing topics everytime needs a lot of words to be coherent, because in it's Clinton for the first link in this Microsoft for the second market, for the third, and so on, while the one on the right only needs a few words. Words to be used to measure with a chain is on the right side. Problem is not just measuring the worst case influence, but with respect to whatever terms we call active in that change, and we maximize over the activations and we do some kind of constraint optimization where we limit the number of total active words you may use and so on. So the question is how to find a good chain and this is a hard problem. And because it's a linear program, instead of giving you this link is in. Definitely come up with a very natural rounding schema so you start from the source you pick next node with a particular probability based on the edge weights you pick the next one, and so on. And this is my output chain based on this rounding schema and. And we compared to a few things like shortest path, Google Timeline. Many of us remember the OJ Simpson trial. Where is that for query like computer things select a set of important documents and. Machines can't have emotions which is supported by this other article that says the concept of feeling only applies to living organisms. It's like online learning Bibtex files, feedback on concepts and so on, and I think overall under multiple is a service will see that this type of research direction is very promising. There is some coverage function from these features and we're going to solve a computer optimization problem that selects a set of posting. You can do all sorts of things, so I'm not going to detail today, but we can do low level features like named entities and so on. So for example, some features are more important than others. The greedy algorithm gives you 1 -- 1 over approximation for this problem, an algorithm that. Self is very fast and gives the same guarantees for this problem, so you can actually model the problem as a submodular function optimize. So lower level high level features and user study involved 27 subjects with two metrics, and I'll talk about the metrics. And in this metric, Google doesn't do as well. This shows a lot of redundant stories. So in summary, what's happening here is that we had about the same performance as Yahoo. Buzz was able to use a lot of other side information like click through rates, search trends, user voting and so on. Same for every other issue, so if so much information out there, I'd like to figure out better ways to think about where should I start. The question is, how can I learn the fact that I care about Britney Spears and color cares about Barack Obama in terms of what stories I show you? Define a coverage function, selects a set of postings, but now the user is going to give me some feedback on the posts. And I'm going to talk about how to do that in an online learning style. And what happened was after a few epochs of interaction there was one story about Indian after 10 epochs is a couple and after 15 networks of interactions. And in terms of user studies, we did a user study where we generalize personalized posting the totally unstructured way. Complex information needs new ways of. Start outside and it's about more complex information dealing with more complex information needs the fact that we have 28 workshops in parallel. If I want to figure out if there is an approximation algorithm for submodular function maximization which does not require integral value functions. Carlos guestrin challenging but if I could say, you know, here's a classic paper about submodular function optimization. Ways of expressing what your information needs. Maybe new ways of representing the output of such a system, and new ways of providing richer forms of interaction between a user and such information system. 11:30 some more time and your related work sections that are skimpy. Positions, which is to think about a set of papers rather than a keyword. That kind of qualify what kind of research I've been doing and give me a set of relevant papers that I should read based on those. So here's my query set of papers. Or if something is cited by all of these, these's seminal paper should read the problem is that. The question is, is there a high degree of influence between Q and the set of papers A then consider showing the user and influence can be looked at in many ways. The existence of a path is not sufficient. We have to measure how strong. An Angora was the idea of dealing with the fact there are millions of blog postings every day, and sometimes some stories get a lot more attention than they should. So what is probably the existing path between X&Y in G given this edge is being active with probability Theta? We average this over the concepts, and we have some weight which has to do with the prevalence of concept C in paper Q. We're given a set of query papers. We maximize objective function to give you a set of relevant papers in output. And this is not so easy because you trust different communities, trust different people even though they're similar researchers differently with respect to particular terms. Or maybe from the list of favorite conferences and journals that you read. Meaning, do I trust at least one of the authors of paper papers in a? It's a very natural user study. And those are the inputs, and he compared against a few other couple variants of of our algorithm and a few other things related relational topic model work on information genealogy an with Google Scholar, Google Scholar. So what color did was ask one of the Co authors of the paper to provide queries that you might use in Google Scholar in the time they were writing this particular article. They found that the work was more trustworthy. So for example, if you take our economic crisis and you pick two New York Times articles one about the housing bubble in another one about the bailout bill, somehow you feel that you are connected together. What Dafna shahaf? So we're going to talk about is selecting a few sets of important stories that cover what's being discussed and their important to particular user. So if you take a particular day, January 17th, 2009, this word cloud, besides the word, represents how prevalent those words were in the blogosphere on that day. That if you were to read this New York Times articles about mortgage crisis that came from the housing bubble and the data in the Congress Act and the bailout plan, and so on, you'd understand better this story that came about in relationship to the two. This is an objective function, and then we'll talk about how to find a good chain connecting this article. What's a good chain are very natural thing to think about this shortest path, so I could think about taking a set of New York Times articles. Remember Plane landed US Airways now, so these are the stories and what our system we call turning down the noise in the blogosphere will do is select a subset of stories that covers was being talked about in the blogosphere on that day. And if we think about the shortest path chain, what was happening is every pair? Transition Alternatively, if you look at the more coherent chain, you see that Clinton is going on the whole time Lewis going on most the time.