The first part is what you can think of is the four foundational areas of statistical relational learning, namely probabilistic inference, statistical learning, logical inference, and inductive logic programming. Sorry there is always strictly positive. Then the distribution is a product of potentials over the clicks of the graph. So how do you do inference in Markov networks? Called Gibbs sampling and it's and it's a very simple algorithm. I repeatedly sample each variable according to its neighbors, so I get a new state and then all I do is I count. A family of algorithms that go by the name of belief propagation. Given some evidence X, these are variables whose values I know compute the most likely state of the world, meaning the other variables Y which we can call the query variables. Well, the oldest and simplest one is something called iterated conditional modes, which has a little bit of the favor of Gibbs sampling. We want to be able to model domains with multiple types of objects. We want to be able to model relations between objects. In this tutorial, I'm going to assume that we have complete data. Well, you just do the standard you can do, for example maximum likelihood learning or maximum posterior probability learning or full vision learning. It's actually very intuitive and it's the following the derivative of the log likelihood with respect to a weight is the number of times that the corresponding feature is true in the data. For all variables of the probability of each variable given its neighbors in the data. And the way the thing that we can do now is we can approximate the expected counts by the counts in the most likely state of Y given X. There are other weight learning approaches that I think are worth knowing about. You might make a comeback, another approach which is discriminative and this is the most recent of these. We can start with atomic features, meaning the individual variables are the features and then what I can do is I can join features to the current feature. Natural language Processing is another example of the same kind. And I'm going to call a literal a predicate or its negation. And I'm going to call a world also known as model or interpretation and assignment of truth values to all the ground predicates. So how do we do inference in first order logic? Well, traditionally inference has been done by theorem proving using things like resolution. However, more recently people have found that if you proposition lies the model, IE you ground out everything in the way I just described, and then you do model checking, this can actually be a lot faster than doing resolution. It actually turns out then in many domains this is actually very fast. My input is a set of clauses. Like I said, this can always be done and my output is either the truth assignment that satisfies all the clauses or the answer no, or false if none exists. The basic idea in the backtracking approaches is very simple is we're just going to assign truth values by depth first search. Either wind up with an empty set of clauses, which means that I've deleted all of them, so I've succeeded. So this is the basic idea. The other thing that we can use is what's called pure literals, which is Littles that had just had the same truth value everywhere. Else if the CNF contains an empty clause, then I failed. I return false else if it contains a pure literal I, I called the PLL again with the literal replaced by the necessary value, else if it contains a unit clause, I again just called the PLL with the unit clauses you know value with literal replaced by the by the necessary value, otherwise. Stochastic local search works with complete assignments and then what do I do? If all the clouds are satisfied. Otherwise I pick a random clause with probability Pi, flip a random variable. I have a set of positive and negative examples of some concept. Well, one potential benefit is that we get better predictive accuracy. Another one is better understanding of the domains. Unfortunately there are also some costs. And then the way rule induction works is that I learn one ruler or one basic algorithm is I learned a single rule in the following way. I evaluate the rule with the new body and then I pick the best literal i.e conjoined to the body. Negative ones, this goes inside a loop where I learn a set of rules. Then I repeat the following. What I now have are predicates with arguments. We are going to have one restriction, which I think makes a lot of sense, which is when when I add a literal it now has variables. Now there's another important change that happens when we go to 1st order, which is that adding a literal changes the number of groundings of the rule. And if we're not careful about this, we could fool ourselves into into thinking that we're doing really well, because we're just creating positive examples all over the place. That concludes our brief survey of the foundational areas of statistical initial learning. There's also stochastic logic programs, probabilistic relational models, relational Markov networks, vision logic, Markov logic, and many, many others. So what are the key dimensions one of them is the logical language that the approach uses, so we could, for example, use first order logic. Or you could use something more restricted like horn clauses, very popular approach or something like frame systems. Another dimension is the type of learning that you can do in this approach. Here the logical languages, horn clauses and the probabilistic languages Bayes Nets. Here's another one stochastic logic programs here. Stochastic logic programs can just be seen as lifting PCF's to the 1st order level by turning production rules into horn clauses. So if then you want to do inference, then what you have to do is you have to look at the proof tag of whatever query item you have. Here's another one probabilistic relational models. Here the logical languages frame systems, IE you have classes of objects, and for each class of object you have a Canonical description of the object, meaning the attributes of the objects of that class and the relations of the objects of that class to other classes. Now the restriction that is implicit in frame systems is that, as in the logical case, we only have binary relations. Relational Markov networks in relational Markov networks. Those are going to be my clicks and then I have a potential function for each query. So our goal stated in one sentence is to enable learning from non IID data as easily as from IID data. It's A kind of an imperative programming language that tells you how to, how to build a relational world, but the semantics is at the level of 1st order logic. The blog language itself does not say how the parameters should be set. And if you think about it, often this is not the case. In this case an airplane. And what happens if you run blog inference algorithms on such a network is that it will. So learning algorithms for Markov logic parameters can be learned. Can be seen as special cases of Markov logic and we will see later how that can be done, so you can you can. You can think of a logical knowledge base is a set of hard constraints on the possible states of the world. Well, how about we make them soft constraints when world violates a formula, it becomes less probable, but not impossible. The semantics is that, together with a set of constants representing objects in the domain and then Mail and defines a Markov network as follows, it's going to have one note for each grounding of each predicate in the MLN, and it's going to have one feature for each grounding of each formula in the MLN with the corresponding weight. I mean, let's say I have just two constants, Ann and Bob, because that's what will fit on a slide. The basic elements are probability for handling uncertainty and logic for representing, you know, types, relations, complex dependencies between them, which is what we really want to do in SRL, and we have learning an inference algorithms for each. We have statistical learning algorithms, we have IOP. In statistic in knowledge base model model construction there horn clauses, but there's always this idea of the template being repeated the number of times and now the probability of a world that I get out of this is here's my log linear model. It's the sum, it's the normalized expenditure, did some overall formulas of the weight of the Formula Times the number of true groundings of that formula in the world? For the sake of time, but you can certainly look at the papers, you can also do infinite and continuous domains in Markov logic. But empirically, this seems to be a pretty good base. I'm also obviously not going to do a complete survey of the foundational areas. So I do. I am going to assume that you will have a basic background in logic, probability and statistics and so forth.