I think one of the Seminole work that I listed at the bottom of the slides is the Seminole Paper on Internet advertising and generalized the second price auction. It's a great pleasure and an honor to be here and I will talk about Internet advertisement, an option, optimal auction design. I represent the number of clicks in position I, so here are my simplifying assumption. That's actually. He presses his button, he drops out his business $0.30. This one guy who is a 30. The guy who beat $0.35 while he will pay $0.30 plus a bit increment because the laws be there was a $0.30, and so on and so forth, right? So this is what we call generalized English English auction. And in this auction you can see the strategies could be represented. IPI is the price of each bidder. Eye drops out and a size the value per click of bidder I so we can represent the strategy by this function that depends on the number of bidders remaining and the value of the bidder in the history of the game. And there's a theorem from my paper with Edelman Ostrovsky and here's what the theorem says in the unique perfect. Bayesian equilibrium of the generalized English auction strategies can so this is a technical assumption strategies are continuous in your value that's very logical. I will give you a little glimpse of the intuition. He'll drop out at 10. So the bidder who has a value of 20 he doesn't have to drop out and tell. Is a high value, but if the other guy were to drop out at 11 and a half cents. Which is unlikely, but could happen. That's kind of a dominant strategy for you to keep going. I'm happier yet, so it's a no brainer. Then you reach a point where you say oh, if the other guy were to drop out. Assume that Biggers values are IID draws from a distribution that satisfy the following regularity conditions. So here's a proposition. First of all, let's let's just do. When we set an optimal reserve price, how does it effect? Reserve price causes an equal increase of total amounts of payment of all advertisers whose values exceed reserve price. Price is very very small. So let me start with a somewhat humorous history of marketplace design. It starts in 5th century BC and starts with wife auctions in Babylon, so it is so happened that the first example of a formal market mechanism of an auction that we are aware of is an auction of wives in the city of Babylon, the Great predecessor of all civilizations, and back in the days. I'm pretty sure that this is not the first instance of the mankind using an auction mechanism to buy or sell something. In fact, there's a beautiful result called revenue equivalence theorem that shows that on a wide set of circumstances their revenues are going to be in expectation exactly the same. So similarly it turns out that in the seminal 1962 paper, GAIL and Shapley did not invent deferred acceptance algorithm, although they thought they did. Just because American Medical Association has a very big set of rules where they kind of got things right doesn't mean that someone else who wants to set up a different market elsewhere could easily learn from that experience. Vickery and Galen Chaplin, Myerson unmasking came up with sort of the first ideas for auction theory and for mechanism design. Obviously a sort of a man or a young man going through sort of struggles and tribulations of finding a mate and falling in love and searching for a special someone he doesn't. AT&T, an Oracle, may not feel like he's being an object that's being auctioned to the highest bidder. For obvious reasons, things sort of. The rules of the game since since we use Internet to mediate our transactions, an I think sponsored search auctions what really attracts me to sponsored search auctions I think what should attract you to sponsored search auctions is that they really bring this into focus. Some machine learning algorithm that does it for us, and again, the challenge is how do you combine that with sort of simple and elegant model that we have in marketplace? But in part. The auction where advertisement is arranged in order of bids but we don't charge advertisers there, but we actually charge advertisers their bid. It's unstable because it doesn't help your strategy equilibrium. Why am I beating $2? So of course the guy in the second position could say, well, I'm an idiot too. I value first position at a few extra sense.