[0.0s - 29.0s]
If you read my my topic of the presentation, it does have to do with Russian registry of legal entities, so you're here stuck for the presentation in Russian. OK for 10 minutes, but that's only the parts of it will be in Russian, so we constructed to be, which is the guy that sniffs out the connections between the companies. Sort of a pollentier thing, but running over the open data of the Russian registry and we claim that this is a consumer product. And at the same time we're trying right now to move it on the tracks of B2B sort, of course.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So next 10 minutes I will tell you what to be, why we decided to make it, then what can it do then? What's the role of semantic technologies in the in the dog and why to be cannot get without semantic knowledge. And finally I will say why semantic technology are still hard to develop. The end user applications with and how we actually overcame the challenges of semantic technology.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
These are the basic facts of. This URL is actually again in Russian, so there's little disclaimer at the bottom says that the product is targeted for the Russian market. We've made the English version, but then we decided to drop the support because it really really draws too much too many resources, so it's sufficient based commercial web application. And what's most, I mean, the size is most impressive. I believe about 3 billion triples, and it's actually growing because we're integrating more and more sources into the to be. Moe

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Ivation there are open datasets in Russia which is surprisingly good. There are already a number of tools that are using the open data in Russia for making the end user application, but they are expensive. First of all and very bulky, so we saw the opportunity for the small, really targeted application with the small subscription fee and we realized that semantic technologies can really advance us on the market and I will explain how that happened.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So the use case is basically very simple. Like the stick you search for the company of your interest. Then you you explore the graph of the company trying to get to the revelations or discoveries in the data, sort of making analytics and then saving the results for to come back to them later.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So OK, this is the Russian part that I was promising. OK, so the interfaces in Russian, but this is the first stage, so search you put in the search query. If I have more info we have little time left. I will do the live presentation. So you insert the insert these search query. Then you have four tabs, which is the legal entities. Private intrapreneurs personas which is just physical entities and addresses and for the hits you get the cards and then on the right you have the. A filter pane with regional filtering area of activity filtering and so on. So one.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
You got to the company. You can open the graph, which is well, which is kind of faded, but the the target entities in the middle. Then you expand. So it's got. Mainly it's got four nodes coming out of three nodes coming out of the main entity. So it's the subsidiaries, the address and the sort of a governing body, which is mainly the general Director or CEO. And then you expand those people and companies and see how they relate to. Other people and companies like Gossip Rome is related to whatever, and then you go further and further and see that it ends up to a person you know. And finally you save your.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Graphs your your discoveries in under your account. And the the most intriguing part, as we found out from the.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Find that OK you this diagram shows 1234 entities and the path between the eat more universities which is participating in this project and the private company how they are related through the people holding shares in companies and so on.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So and I claimed that semantic technologies took a huge role in our project, so they actually kind of thread the things together throughout the entire application. So we like the TL, so we do it in the Google Cloud and we apply the entology to transform the XML dirty XML data that comes out of our taxation agency and then we use Triplestore Blaze craft to store the Knowledge graph and query the. The Knowledge graph sorry via the sparkle queries and we use on Todaya library which is our making this work. Making my company making so to actually navigate through the graph. Yeah 5 minutes I got it thanks.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
OK, business value semantic technology. We found out they have business value so we we we OK? Are our competitors have 400 developers for building their product? We managed to deliver in six months with five months with six people. So then we can lower the development costs and reduce time to market. And finally we claim that where richer in features in terms of the exploration, data exploration and finally we. We think that the next integrations with other data sources would be simpler.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
This is the technical benefits I'm I'm kind of well under the impression that we can skip this because most of you probably know that, but we have enjoyed publishing the ontology and attracting the domain experts to kind of really verify and clarify the entology for us. And then it's really publicity factor. And we enjoy really enjoy the common language that we can speak to. All of the data sources.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Um, challenges that's that was tough. OK, Semantic technology developers are hard to find. An knowledge engineers are really hard to scout for, but if you have one person in the team that is fluent with semantic technologies, he will spread the virus quite quickly. I mean, if he's the believer and the second you can find the closest University near your place, yes, to make an ontology development tools, I want to point out this one. They are somehow in mature, so we started developing our own. That's how we came up with on today. So I can skip this.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
This one and this is about the visualization component, which is quite customizable. This is the default. This is how we customize it, and it's not.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Clearly so is it OK if I do the life presentation and yeah one minute alright alright? Right, so we do. Mozilla. Then we launched the query. How do we come up with the University of Eat more? And here is the graph, so you can actually expand all of its relations so. Yes, somehow, so you go down and see all of these subsidiaries of it most so it more is owning many enterprises at most, claiming that. So this is the the really the analytics part. So ignores claiming that it's the most intrapreneurial University and that's how you see how many companies it owns and holds the share off. So that's just just one one case. So I I'm done.
