So really there's been a lot of work on broadly composing graphical models with neural networks. They're good at thinking about priors and uncertainty. I know right those priors so PGM's are good tools for that. The reason why we're in deep learning Summer school is because these things are so flexible in such high capacity, and this character feature learning from our data. I'll say a bit more about this later, but when you write down an RN or something Wavenet or something if you want to be able to infer missing, you know, given partial observations in some arbitrary pattern. Is this idea of recognition networks that learn how to do inference for you? But we also because we built all the structure into our latent variable model. So the inference part of this talk, which is really the technical part, really comes down to having recognition networks and pairing them with fast graphical model. And then finally I'll say a bit and show a few pictures about. We're going to have some exponential family on local variables. And then we're going to have a conjugate prior on the global variables. So that's the top half and then the bottom half. I don't even have switching here to make it really simple, so these taxes form a linear Gaussian linear dynamical system, right? Everything in these chains is linear and Gaussian, and so we should expect to be able to do a lot of stuff. Can you do more? Let me just show you what it looks like for these time series models. We then compute evidence potentials using our nice linear Gaussian observation model. So it's 2 fast message passing to sort of aggregate the local information into a globally coherent inference over what the latent states were, and then step three is almost there is no step three. It turns out that using this information we already computed, we can. So maybe we're modeling a video using latent linear dynamical system, but then nonlinear neural network observation model. Gaussian seems reasonable and then we can write down the objective we did before. That's a pretty generic smooth nonlinear programming problem. This SVI became very expensive for general observation models, but it was nice while we had it because we got the optimal local factor. If we can perform the optimization efficiently, was able to exploit all of our graph structure in our project structure to do that optimization. Approximator that means that we are doing suboptimal local inference. You know it would be better to be able to use that instead of learning from scratch how to do all that information aggregation. So of course, as you might infer from me, setting up this plot, I'm going to tell you about something that we worked on building on both of these lines of work really. But we don't have general observation models, neural network observation models. Networks output conjugate graphical model potentials and then apply all the fast graphical model inference algorithms that you can in your latent variable model. So step one apply recognition or to get potentials Step 2 fast. PGM inference algorithms Step 3. So this is frame index horizontally. And then here's the latent states down here. We still have arbitrary inference queries. So SV is we can plug in any inference network architecture. We often think about this image manifold right? We should believe that you know, maybe we can think of these images is lying on or near some low dimensional image manifold and part of the modeling task is to discover this.