[0.0s - 29.0s]
This is the query log mining tutorial. I am Fabrizio Silvestri. And I'm going to give you the first part of the tutorial. In the afternoon. Ricardo Baeza Yates is going to give the second part of the tutorial and some conclusion. Along with me.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So for the purpose of this of this tutorial, I assume that more or less you are all familiar with the concept of a search engine. I also assume that you are also familiar with the concept of an information retrieval system. Here you can see a very sketchy the schema of our search engine or sorry information. At the base of a biggest bigger success are changing. What I'm what I would like to stress here is the existed in the existence of a of some modules actually. There's a crawler which go through the web. Getting pages, data information, whatever you can find. And it stores all of those data into a local repository. And the local repository is then indexing that, say, is then analyzed and manipulated, let's say and. They transformed in a way that it is easier to do. That makes it easier to access those data. The indexer module actually builds the the index. Which is usually composed of several parts. The most that's a traditional answer, the Fulltext index, where usually represented with an inverted index where basically the textual data is stored and is a test. Then there are other other indexes like the URL DB, where the structure of the web, the graph representing the web is stored. There are some other indexes like the Forward index enter. Some other routes. What is important is that the index is used by another module, which is the query processor or I don't know there are many names to prove the model here, which basically is the interface with the search engine or the system it collects the queries from users. And basically it looks for results within the index once he got results for a specific query, it renders the result page and it shows the result page to the to the user. It is basically a simple concept that, but I guess that many of you knows that actually the real complexity of those systems is really big. Actually, again, just two. Let's say to simplify things are real, let's call it real web search engine comes into a form of a distributed collection of the modules that I showed you, in particular at query processing time. That's the phase where I will focus on more. You have a collection of index server or I occur or query processor or whatever you can call if you want to call it where basically. That are basically.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Managed. Buy a broker. That receives queries from users. Basically, let's say. Uses a way to forward those queries to these in the servers here and I showed you I show you in. Doing the tutorial some policies that can be used to forward queries from those in the servers. Basically those index servers in parallel try to do the same answers to the query in the best way possible. Very returned back results. The broker that merges them. An sends the result back to the users. OK. This is obviously a very brief introduction. Excuse me what is web search engine? But we are interested since this tutorial is on query log mining. We are interested in.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
How we can enhance, let's say, operation the operations of this guy here using history with him? There was a popular station phone number 10, which one said that history teaches everything, even the future. Actually this is not. This is not true in real world as you can guess, but well for for web search engines is a good approximation of the reality. So.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
What is history for hard for US history for us is represented by past queries submitted by users. Collections of past queries so. Submitted by the same user, so very sessions. And also we we are interesting in recording how users. Have reacted to the to the results given by the search engine. That is the clickthrough data we will we will go into this these data. It's a deeply in.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Well, actually. The. Very LogMeIn is A is a very small, even if it is very greasy branch of a more general basically of web mining. I guess you already have seen these, let's say taxonomy of web mining where basically you have. Let's say all the possible kind of data you can mine. You have content data. These, for instance, for a web page, the text contained within, so you when you, when you apply content where buying you web content mind sorry you want to extract knowledge from the textual content of the date. Then you have web structure, mining, web structure mining deals with analyzing the graph associated with the with the web. Basically, Pagerank is a is a technique which is under this general let's say category of web structure mining. Basically we're here. We want to mine. We want to mine the users of the web. That is we want to apply web. Is it main techniques? Which deals with analyzing the logs. Analyzing past queries, extracting knowledge from past queries, and finding ways to use that knowledge to enhance. Hence the website checked. Obviously there are many problems associated with all these three categories, and in particular an interesting let's say an interesting point is to relay all of them all of the three above, just to characterize web the web, for instance, or to find no particular applications out of results coming out of the analysis of the free. Kind of analysis. And to complete. To make things even more complicated, you have to consider that the data in the web. Is very dynamic.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, this is a very brief introduction to to what what we're going to show. And this is the outline. Basically I will show you. Some insights. Of very large like what's inside query log so well that the data there what are. How query logs are structured? What do they contain? And so and so forth. Then we will show some basics on data mining. And in particular, we show those, basically those that say techniques that we will assume. No to be known when we will talk about the other other party. Then they do major, let's see. Two major lines of research will be analyzed. We will we will show. How we can use results from query log mining? In order to enhance the efficiency first of all and then how to enhance the effectiveness. Actually, given the fact that regard that will do this part of the tutorial, we will swap 850 minutes and efficient. Sorry sorry already is working there in this. I know this is this is the correct tutorial organization. So efficiency 1st and effectiveness then this part will be given by Ricardo and this new directions probably. I will show you something.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Cell K. Let's start with a. With the query log path. By the way, I've not told you, but whenever you have some question, whatever Curiosity's or whatever you want to ask, just raise your hand and he and. I do prefer to answer questions online. Rather than answering them, you know at the end or wouldn't. OK, so. What's?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Quit out. I don't know can you can you see the picture here? So basically this is a picture that I that I build. Using these website, this dark cloud generator world.net. Basically. This picture represents the 250 most frequent query terms. In the things they like, we log. Has anyone of you heard about the LL query log mishab sometimes ago? OK, so. I can tell you some words, but basically AOL in September anyway. At the end of 2006 Relay released quite the query log. Well, the way they released those data was not. So let's say. Safe that these many people started to look through the data. To see if they can find you know they if they were able to associate some user ID. Present in the in the query log with a real person. Actually it happened that new journalist from New York Times was able to find a woman that. Said that, she was one of the. She was one of the authors of the queries submitted to do well so are very big case. I mean a very big in shop app and people were five. And the query log was, you know, cancelled was cancelled. Yes from from the AOL website but. Like you're like, you don't know what to say. There are many copies. Are there of the AOL for long, so you can still download it if you want. And you can analyze it. I mean, there are many papers appeared late and teachers are using these as well. I took the L for log I. Let's say exactly 250 most frequent query terms. Out of the air was very loud. And here there's a representation of the, let's say, of the uniform of the cloud of those 200 most different printers. As you can see the most. But I mean the biggest one is the term free. And the second one is the term Google. Then there's also Yahoo, I mean. Even by looking. At this simple image you can just. You can already see some of the. It's a nice property of paralogs cities. They contain a lot of terms that for us looks like look like let's say nonsense like who the hell is looking for Google or Yahoo in Google or Yahoo? Well basically the majority of people are as you can see. Obviously there are also some, let's say standard queries like I don't know four XX or whatever those queries are always there. Then just do.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Some examples of of the content that the actual countable, let's say of what people are looking for. Let's look at what the AOL user 2708. Was looking for back then, so here she but I guess she studied with revenge tactics. Then here she went on with the woman's book of revenge. Then dirty tricks for chicks and then a lot of queries of this guy. Then locate cell.com. What can I do to an all over for revenge? Near event sex, they said that records in Hampstead, New Hampshire, so actually probably you you can guess several things. Out of these queries. But I think that you know maybe this was the end. Hopefully this was the end given the last credit that is so.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Actually there are people. Which. Likes to talk to search engine. As you can see there is this AOL user is 231874 to five then started to type those queries that actually look more look more like a poetry rather than a query with him. You can forward stuff to stay off. I have. I haven't travelled actually. At the first sight, as I thought, OK this is a lyrics or whatever. And I was looking for you. Actually, I don't know. I was not able to find. Lights off or songs or poetry or whatever containing this disturbs it seems that. This guy here was, you know, a little bit lonely and started to type. Where is 3 tractor, it'll be with someone even with password changing. Then there isn't.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Other nice example of what can be done with queries. Out of query logs, I don't know if you have read of these mini movie. Here it is entitled I love Alaska. Here you have the the URL you can you can look at it if you want. Basically this mini movie. Is based on queries of a user. Basically as it is written here, I know this is the words of the author. Another Aska tells the story of one of those AOL users. We get to know our religious middle aged woman for from Houston, TX, who spends her days at home behind her TV and computer. Basically he was, you know. Started to look for other people. Started to look how to cheat on at least this is what he was looking for from the query log records. Basically it is nice. I mean it is along. It is along mini movie actually an the title comes from the last, the very last query of the of the record, which is basically I love Alaska. She's from Houston, TX. Basically she found someone in ask anyway.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Just to get back to more serious stuff. In the literature. There have been many different studies. That analyzed query logs. Here I reported a bunch of them. I mean a bunch of queries out that have been used throughout viziers. Anne. Maybe there are someone else, but I'm sorry if I'm not the listing all of them. I am not enlisting the Microsoft Research very loud, but there are a lot of papers showing the results of all of that data with those data. As you can see, starting from 90 six 1997 when Excite released the first public. Obviously available query log. There have been a lot of query logs. Analyze, some of them are public, some or some of them are not. If you are interested you, I mean during this tutorial I will show you some results at all and I will mention also with all the query logs that have been used. In particular I would like to say something.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
First of all, we will show results from published paper, so we have not computed anything. For the purpose of this tutorial. So as you can guess, this is just a tutorial, so I'm not presenting results specially for this tutorial therefore. We didn't have any query log during this tutorial, so.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Let's do. First, simple computation. So what would be the first? Thing that you would do if you if you have a query log at your in your hand. Well, basically you will look for. The popular tense or popular see queries. In the query log. So this is what have been done in the past. This is these are the queries. The most frequent queries out of the excite. The 9097 very long and these is. A table showing the most frequent queries out of the Alta Vista. We log another publicly available query. Basically, as you can see here, there is already a strange. Strange query of you. The most frequent query back then in 1997, in the Excite Web search engine. Was the empty query. I don't know why. There are many reasons Friesens people I don't know look it I mean. There were not, so you know. So familiar with search engines so. Basically, when they saw the search page, they. Just click it on go, search or whatever. Without typing any query. Then I if I can remember correctly. Also there are some effectu today interface or how it was designed. Basically if I remember correctly. The next page I mean requesting for the next page of result of results, basically corresponding to issuing an empty query. So maybe empty queries. Are of those kind of any? Anyway, this is not really, let's say bottom. As you can guess the the second, the second most frequent terms. X XX XX related the third one is charged the 4th one is lucky number generator, and so on and so forth. Well. This is from 1997. This is from oh one 2001. And things change it a little bit. As you can guess. These query logs sorry this query log is from the end of the year. As you can see, as you can guess from the most frequent query Christmas photos actually is from September October of 2001. So people were starting to late already to look for Christmas photos. Then like strikes, Google Gay Harry Potter Wallpapers in someone songs. Anne. Well. Obviously this is the first question that you might ask. Ask when you when you. When you have your data in your hand, this very loved it in your hand, and I guess that the second question that you should. At least ask your son.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK, here we have, let's say at least of popular queries, but I mean I'm more interesting. The topics associated with those queries. So how topics I mean. How popular are some topics with respect to others? So again, if you repeat the exercise for the excite query logs, these results are from these two papers here. If you repeat results for this for the exact logs, you'll see that entertainment or recreation is the most represented topic. With almost 20%. Of popularity. Then the second category is sex and pornography. The third one is Commerce travel, employmentor economy and so on and so forth. More or less. It is the same also in this study here. So this paper is from 2007, but actually. These credit log is from 2003. It is the IT is a very big American online query log. It is not available. I mean this is not the one that is available online which is a private one. The study appeared also in a cigar paper in 2003. And this is the Journal version which was published in 2007. This guy here after Chowdhury. I don't know if you know him is the one which released the American online catalog. Now he's working at Twitter anyway. He came along way out from there. OK. So as you can see from 1997 to 2003. Topics, let's say distribution is not changing that much, and as you can see. More or less, even if the categories are. Slightly different, I mean you can still. See that entertainment is the most represented one. Shopping is the second one. Here was the third one. Porn still still rented. High research and learn computing and stuff. OK, so. Another curiosity that. You might have when you when you look at. Very log data. He can be. How are queries distributed? That is, if I if I saw queries by their popularity. And I represent on a plot on a graph. On the X axis, queries ordered by their popularity and then on the Y axis. Let's say the popularity of the respective query. What's the shape of the resulting distribution? Maybe some of you already know, but I would like to see if you can guess or whatever. More or less. Yes, it's it's if you.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Power law, whatever you want to call it, and basically. What can be? They used from. This distribution. Is that? The majority of the queries. Are not popular. The very. The majority of queries are not popular. But if you, I mean, if you if obviously if you look at them in terms in terms of single queries, let's say unique queries. But if you count them. With the number of submissions or with the number of times they have, they have been requested. You would see that the majority of let's say requested queries. Accounts for a small subset of unique queries. So basically this is the 2080 low, you know, like 20% of the population. Retain the majority of of the of the, let's say, of the of the popularity. So here almost 20% of queries. Get the majority get gets the majority of life. But there's also this long tail. Which contains a huge amount of queries which probably appear only once or twice at maximum. So here you have queries ordered by popularity and you have popularity but the same distribution. Or I mean obviously changing the parameters can be observed. For many others. For many other let's say valuables like for instance.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
If you extract terms from queries and you you do the same exercise, you order terms by their popularity and you represent the popularity on the Y axis. You see that basically the the computer already follows a power law, zip, shun or whatever you want to call it. Let's say shape. And the same is for.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
The clicks. Well. Receive so if you if you saw. Each you are all counted with the number of clicks. It receives. You get the same the same shape so. The message here is that power laws or the power noise are very important distribution that you should take into account whenever you work with this kind of thing. So just assess the validity of what I've just said, let's look.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So let's look at what happen if you. If you plot the popularity of the most of the queries in the Alta Vista query log. Here you have this.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Simplot here here.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Representing a log log scale. So here you have luck. Sorry log X and log Y. And as you can see, now the the line is a is a straight line. Obviously for obvious reason, but still here is that the there are a small. There is a small subset of queries very very popular, and then the popularity, let's say steeply decreases. Until it reaches a very small value, almost one. You have also take into account that when you compute the log log, let's say blog here data are much more dense than here, so the number of guys here is very high. This is for AltaVista.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
The same the same trend. You can search or you can observe the same trend for the attack. D excite very loud. Here you have the first 1000. The top 1000 popular queries in the query log they say.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Sing for a non public very loud. This plot appeared in this in this paper here. This is the Yahoo query log. This is a. Very loud, containing queries as queries issued. In UK, if I'm not wrong in 2007. 6006 OK, and again here you have the same power load. And the same trend. So the message is. The majority of people. Is looking for more or less the same? The same thing. But if you, if you account, I mean if you consider. Let's say the Gentiva the overall picture. I mean, if you count the frequency of each query submitted. But if you don't consider the, let's say the frequency with which query has been submitted, you'll see that the majority of unit of unique queries is submitted only once or twice. OK. Then given this fact. One can ask, OK, but when? When a query is resubmitted.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
How I mean? How much time should I wait to see another? I mean to see a recent mission of aquarium. This plot actually shows it. Here you can see on the X axis the distance that is the number of queries between two resubmission tourism missions of the same query. And on the Y axis the number of queries having that distance. So basically here you have for instance. That there are 300,000 queries on the activista. Very logs. That have been submitted. At most. After 400 queries. So what what is Daniel this graph? This block? This block is basically telling us that. As you can see from this tip. Curve here this plot is telling us that basically. There are a lot of queries that. Are resubmitted. And you should not wait that much to see to see those queries. Something that I've not told you. Here you you consider a query as the string. That you submit to the search engine plus. The page of results you are asking for. So if you look for I don't know Yahoo and you are looking for the second page of result. So this query is different from the query Yahoo for the first page of results in this blog. So. Again, what what this plot is telling us is that you should know you. You will see the same query, not so you know. Not after so many time, but still there are queries that repeat themselves after also. At biggest distances, and this is something that we will use in the in the. I mean to show some results in the future. So basically the plots that I've showed you are all related. Two, let's say. A sort of Birds Eye view of the query log. That is, we're looking at queries in there, I mean. In there we are looking at the overall shape of the query log. But we can do another exact size and we can dig into the query logs to look for.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The frequency of query submission given specific hour of the day. So in this plot that comes from this paper here you can see the frequency. Where is a mission? Broken down. By the hour of the day. So as you can see. The the biggest I mean. The largest number of. Where is our submitted? Here after 8:00 PM. Needless to say, these times have been urbanized, so every query is, let's say I mean. Every hour is consistent with the time user as a meeting appointment. So as you can see, the majority of queries are submitted here, so between 8:00 and midnight. Then there are some. I mean people you know. Obviously people goes to sleep. Then they wake up again and they start wearing again during the work day. Obviously. As we approach launch time, the frequency the query frequency, the query frequencies increases. And then more or less it's stable. During. The afternoon so. What lesson learned here? Lesson learned here is that people after lunch prefer to look. For results in through the I mean prefer to go through the web, then to work so. No, I mean I'm just kidding. Yeah, sure. Entertainment, you know? Maybe I don't know here. Actually I show you some breakdown of the statistics and in a couple of slides, But basically this is a cumulative statistics, so the majority of people is after afternoon is looking for something through the web. I don't know what. Then

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Let's get back to some statistics. Which are related to queries. So basically another question that you should ask is. How long are ferries? I mean, how many terms are contained in a query. I think is well known that queries or web search queries are very short. They are usually usually composed of two or three terms, and here the trend is not changing that much. From 90 seven, 2001 an even in 2008. We did a study where basically the number of terms per query was 2.5. I mean. People likes to search for stuff. Through the web. Using very. Very few terms. This is sometimes good. This is sometimes bad. You'll see in the future. Well, let's see the breakdown of the number of queries containing, for instance, 1/3. They are almost, let's say, from 2526 to 30%. So almost 1/3 of the queries contains or better are made up of just one term. Then 30 again, 31 to 33% of queries. Are made up of two terms and the remaining three or more tips. Anne. If you consider the number of words submitted by each user. Of the excite. Very loud you'll see that which user. Requested 2.5 queries in 9797. Two almost two queries in 99 and 2.3 two 1001. So this means that basically users. You know want to find something or want to find what they want to find quickly? Want to find what they are looking for quickly that they don't like to wait? For the results, and when I say wait, I'm not speaking about the time needed by the search engine to get back with results, but when I say waiting, I mean. Waiting in terms of number of queries, he had to submit. Before finding the the the page of the OR the concept or the information he was looking for. OK. So just to get back to the class.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
To your question. Here is a breakdown of the previous slide. And here you can see. The let's see how we drop topic distribution broken down. Bye. As you can see. More or less all of the categories represented are more or less query. With the same frequency throughout the day. Apart from this guy here, which has a peak. After midnight, as you can guess. So getting back to your question, I don't know. Actually, I think that the majority of people. He's looking. For personal finance after me afternoon. Not that much for entertainment as you can see that entertainment. Raises a little bit after 6. Has more or less the same game during lunchtime shopping more or less doing during lunch, starting from lunch time and afterwards. So this is probably the biggest surprise. Well, actually from this observation.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
The authors of this paper. Did a nice nice exercise, let's see. They said OK, more or less.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
All of the categories are represented more or less the same. OK, but what is interesting is to measure how. A category is surprising that is compared to a random distribution. What is the most surprising topic distribution?

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So what they did is to compare or to compute the Catholic Leibler divergent maybe? You have already seen it, but apart from the nice formula here, what is computed by these? This equation is the. Let's say the similarity or the distance, depending on how you see I mean, how two distributions are similar? So the more these distributions are similar. The closest to one this guy becomes. So basically basically if you compare, for instance the distribution of, I don't know, entertaining. With a random distribution. The result tells you that. Let's save the country cleaver. Divergences is quite high. There is. Entertainment is still something that you don't expect. I mean, if you look at what war actually? Looks, I mean, what's the Celtic lever divergent in the case of corn, you'll see that. The value is very high. This means. That this topic here is very surprising. There is no one is expecting or better is really different from a random distribution. So in some sense. These I mean from what authors? Authors of the paper said that actually born is the real that is the most frequent in the in that term. Dick represented in India. OK, this is. More or less all for having regarding the. The section on on. Query log on the query log overview. Are there any question? Real cities, anything. Yep. Different demographics particular the AOL will have high demographic of UL users switch. And be home use us yeah, sure. So you would see the same distributions, public distributions. We look that yellow. Well. Well, I don't know actually. Well, maybe given the fact that those I mean that query log was really big. So maybe. You can still see some. Of the results here also in in the biggest you know, query logs like Google or Yahoo or whatever. Obviously you're right. I mean, the majority of people. Use the air well at home at their home. These also justify the fact that the majority of queries appeared in the afternoon when they were back at home. I don't know maybe what what will change will be the distribution of frequency during time but. I hardly believe that the distribution of topic. Of topics will change that much. Any other question? Yep. Did I have? The lack of Quakers. Well, I've actually personally have not never measured that, but. I don't know. Actually, as we as we will see, the majority of people. Looks for you know. Queries that they defined to be navigational. That is, like queries like Facebook or Yahoo or Google or Microsoft or whatever. So whenever you see let's say a single term query in the majority of the cases, you'll see queries like that. I've never. I mean, I've never seen at least personally. Lang self. Query terms but that can be interesting. I think that that could be interesting. Especially for where is diff. I mean in language is different from English or whatever may be right because many languages are. Have terms made up of several terms. Appear to get like German or whatever they have. Yeah, maybe that could be interested in this, but I don't know. OK. Just a question to the organizers that, given that they're here, what time shall I break for coffee breaker? OK 11:00 o'clock. OK 11:00 o'clock. So 11:00 o'clock and then afterwards OK. You can. OK. OK. OK, perfect just to know how much time I have. Just to know how much time I have. OK. So.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Before. Going on. Let us review some. Classical data mining tasks. Actually, for the park was off this tutorial, we also prepare some new mining tasks for play logs, but. I think that. New time constraints. We will not be able to. You know, give. This part of the tutorial. As separate, let's see, but we will, you know we will present. These techniques throughout the talk so.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Bottom line, this is another. Popular concept. There are many definitions. Of that amount of data mining. Basically, what you can, you can say of data mined is that. When you apply it, you are looking for. Non trivial extraction of implicit. Previously on unknown and potentially useful information from. So. I think you all have heard of the. Famous example of. Beer and I are here. And the other is actually. So when you when when you see surprising or non trivial or potentially useful you refer to example like that. I mean when you look at your data you are not using data mining, you are not looking for. You know like the average. The average income of your employees or the top. Selling product when you applied it data mining you are looking for let's say. Surprising patterns. Like for instance this pattern. Telling that this is a real story. On Saturday. People. Buying beer also. Both dioper dieters. It seems strange, but actually. They found that a nice liquidation of the following at Saturday. People with children at their home with babies at their home. Invite over other people so they buy beer for them and they also buy diapers for the children so. This things is apparently unrelated, but actually, if you think if you think about it carefully, you'll see there are some corrections. An important important fact is that you don't want to manually dig into data. You want to find. Automatic. Methods. That will give you some surprising pockets. So basically, you don't want to sample out data, let's say manually in order to have a clean data set where you can. Compute statistics over them. You want to go through all your data and you want your method to extract information about those data. Basically. It's a process that allows you to. Extract knowledge from that. There are.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Basically 3. Typically. Typical data mining tasks. In particular. There are two tasks which are senior. The one is the classification task. That is, you have. Collection of data. Some of those data has been in some way and notated. Either manually or you know from the data you have in your historical. Anyway, some data has been annotated. Like for example, you know this is, I don't know. This is a safe cost customer. It will pay everything, even with he revived or this is not safe. So don't sell anything to go to that customer, so labels like that. So what you want to do with using? I mean applying classification, is to build a model of the annotated data. That will help you in a Note 8. The unlabeled data afterwards. Will see some example in in next visit. The other similar task is clustering, where you basically have a bunch of data, very big data set. And you want to divide it segmented into subsets containing. Homogeneously. So you want to divide that you want to divide those data into. Classification is used is usually. Is usually called also supervised learning. Why supervised? Because you have to provide some annotated data so you are supervising the process in some way. And clustering is also sometimes called unsupervised learning because you are giving just. Data without any human effort. So. These two things are related, but you know. Usually you apply clustering as a first step when you have your data and you don't know you know the content or you you want to know some you know distribution or how. Data are interrelated within the cluster within the data set you apply clustering and you will see some insight. Classification is usually a step that is applied.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
After we said what is data mining, we also have to say what is not. As I said, data mining. Is not. For example, finally the web search values that include the phrase September 11. This is not the time and research. Or, for instance, look at very long and select all the queries submitted. Same use by the same user ID 2317. This is not quite like this is a select. Please select a SQL select. Mining is something more, usually data.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Time. Is part of our biggest process. The knowledge discovery process represented here. You, I mean, it is intended to discover or two extra knowledge out of a row collection of data. You have a row collection of data. You may. These data undergo a sort of selection in preprocessing and cleaning cleansing, actually. Process. Sorry. You extract refind. It's a. Cleaned. Version of your data. Notice that I have not said a sample of your data. Clean version of your data. That is, the data is still. Let's say not sampled. Let's say that the representation of the data here. He is more lean and. Then once you have these uniform representation of your data, you can apply data mining techniques. Fix on knowledge. As you can see, there are arrows going down from each step. This. These arrows mean that each step can be back down. And because for instance, you can discover here that the patterns you are extracting and know are not meaningful, so they that that's not what you are looking for. So you can get back and select a different view of your data, for instance. Or maybe you discover that your preprocessing step is not correct and you do it again anyway. Each of these, each one of these steps. Of these steps can be better.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
And also. Data mining originated from different disciplines. Mathematics database is often obviously artificial intelligence information retrieval. Statistics, obviously. High performance computing because. What I've not told you, but I gave as a as a as a. This effect. Is that? You want results and you want them fast. I mean, you cannot wait for months before having your results, so my performance computing is one of the important areas where data mining is started. Um? OK. Data mining this is a very active, I guess all of you knows it. Very active research areas, so there are a lot of techniques that each year. Come out. Anyway, what we will use out of this data mining techniques is the techniques themselves. We will not show any particular inside of any technique. So. Determine

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Doing tasks. Can be also divided into. Two major let's say substance. The first one is the subset containing predictive methods. These data mining methods that are able to. Use some variable. Some variables to predict. Future values of other values, so sorry other valuables. For instance, I don't know it's raining and I don't know it's Wednesday I won't play things. This is a very stupid example, but the very first the first variables are used to predict that I won't play tennis. So that there will be many complex many more complex examples, but. Just to let you know, let you understand what what, what prediction means in this country. And then there are also descriptive methods that this you have a lot of huge amount of data but you want to find a way. Do this, try that data. In a way that is understandable by a human. For instance, clustering is is a method that can be used today. For instance, you have a set of customers and you you can segment your sectors of customers into subset. For instance young and rich or I don't know all them rich or. Middle age and poor other. Anyway you are you want to describe those data. Maybe in some of these men.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So. Try to relate these two dimensions. Classification is a predictive task. Because you classify so you predict the class in which an object with four. Dustin gets a sentence in his drifted method. Then there are some other data mining techniques Association rules, for instance. Is that descriptive method? They can be also used for classification so they can go to users of predictive method. We will see some Association rule Discovery Water Association with discovery is in awhile. Then there are other techniques like sequential pattern regression, outlier detection, sequential patterns, covered descriptive regression. An outlier detection is predictive. Dies in particular outlier. We don't have time to show it, but it's basically a technique that. Is aimed at discovering. Those objects are data. Those objects in your data set that different a lot from you know the other object. So those objects that are not so there are strange within the data set. For instance, I don't know if you want, I mean this is a technique that can be used to detect frauds in transaction in credit card transactions, for instance. OK.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
So. What classification? Classification. Is. Given a collection of records. Usually called the training set. You can see that one of the attributes. Of this record. Is the class, for instance, I will play tennis so the the customer is is the customer is safe or whatever so there is 1 called in your database. One attribute in your rig record that is the class. Then for the training set. For the records in the training set. The Class I tribute, as well as rules. So the goal of the classic classification step is to find. Model describing your trip. Trains training set. These the disabled two in some way predict the class given. The remaining values of yogurt. So basically you are looking for a function of the values of attributes different from the class. Then once you have this model, the goal of the model is to predict the. Class attribute unseen records. This is basically the classification.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
It's making an example. I don't know if you can read it. I cannot actually, so I guess you can not as well. So basically here you have a very simple very classification example. Here you have query. For instance, query text or query plus the snippets of the results you get from from the search engine. So. Someone has manually said that. Self care Kaka. Is from sport. Middle school, he said. Dina is politics. Game is feathery spot, and so on and so forth. So basically you give. These data set. To this. Classification Learning task classification learning module. And it gets back a model which is a representation of this data. Then you want to apply this model that is, for instance given this record here, like Pillette, Embrase. What's the class? The class label very likely spot. Given Ventro knee, left, center or whatever, what's the the class here? Very lightly politics and so on and so forth. Obviously this is a very toy example and it seems easy. As a task of classification is not easy at all. Many times the differences between the different classes are very, let's say is moved. So I mean the the outlines of every. Of every classes. Of every class is is very smooth, so you you can hardly find a way to separate them into classes I mean. Classification is quite true. We will. We will not obviously show classification persay, but we will show classification methods. So you will take it as you will take classification as a black box. Once you want you should only know is that. Classification is a is a method. That takes as an input, then updated the data set. It gives a model and you use the model afterwards to classify unlabeled. Data.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Lastly clustering is really easy. Le

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Let me show you using an example I I yeah.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
What kind of features we use for classifying queries? What kind of features are features is, well, this. This was a very example, so we assumed to use the query text plus the snippet associated with it. But obviously query classification is a very complex task because as I said, where is our shot, so it's not easy to find. Let's say a good set of features there many many words showing very classification. Best features do you know of literature which is yeah? They have a couple of days. They also look at click through data so the the text associated with the pages clicking when the ticker example when I use it quicker results on the page. Information on past or past queries submitted by the same user. So for instance, you submit a Apple and you know that the user is a computer scientist paid, but it's very likely that Apple in that case should be, let's say, classify as a. The company. So there are many difficult tasks. I mean that many tricky, let's say steps 2. That you can take, you know, in order to classify queries. But this was just an example too. When bad, the classification with the concept into what we are dealing with. Casting the game.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Any other question, by the way, before going. So suppose you have these datasets. These 3 dimensional data set. I mean, if I ask you how many clusters you can start here, I think. Everyone will see. Free. Anne. I think that it's natural to say 3, because actually you can see that there are objects here that are dense. Here as well, and basically all of these. Gusters well separated. So basically a clustering algorithm will try to find these subsets. No. Consider that. These are objects. Discribe by features. In order to be able to. Say what are the objects that are close to others objects you know? Sorry, you must have. The concept of similarity measures. For instance, here you can have the typical Euclidean distance, but finding the right similarity measures is not a trivial task. So for instance, these objects have been mapped in a 3 dimensional space. The distance is the usual Euclidean distance, so things are more or less easy.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
But free sense if you have a collection of textual documents. How can you? Let's say how can you measure the distance between two documents? For instance, it's not easy. OK, you can represent a document as a as a vector is in in an N dimensional space where N is the number of the different terms appearing in the collection of documents. And then you can measure the actual EDN distance. And you see that more or less all day, all day, all the objects are far away or close. It depends on how you play. This is because the high dimensionality of your data. So we will not get into the problem of high dimensionality. But just to give you a hint, when you have data with a lot of dimensions represented by a lot of features represented by a lot of you know. Different attributes. Measuring the distance is not easy at all. For instance, in the case of documents. There are some popular similarity measure. One of them is the cosine nature. Is the cosine measure, which basically. Measure the angle between the two vectors. So. The smaller the angle. The more similar are the documents. Or there are other similarity measures, for instance the Jaccard which measure the number of terms in common between the two documents with respect to the number of terms they had. So. All of these pretty matter. Try to, you know, find a way to. Measure the distance between the documents and then once you have. These metrics you can apply whatever you want to cluster them. OK.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
OK, just let me see OK. You might also want to cluster queries, for instance. Where is there even more difficult to blast? Because As for the case of classification, they are very short. So you have to find tricky tricky waves or some tricks in order to have some more data associated with each query, for instance. Apple pie. It's it's too short to be classified or to be associated associated with some other queries. So there's a paper appeared at the CIA and 1007. That basically. Expanded the query associating with the query. The snippets. From the results are appeared in the query log. Sorry appear the search result computed by the search engine. So. This is a standard method. It's a standard method whenever you have. Wherever you don't have many, you know information or many, let's say data associated with the query, try to. Expand The query using data coming from different sources. For instance, if you associated with Apple Pie also other tasks. That appear that appear in index snippets. For instance, you will have more. Features more attributes associated with the with the query. So maybe you can find. A similar query. But maybe not sharing any single term with the original 1. I don't know a senior credit I face you have that would buy him, but anyway. Princess strawberry cake It's something which is related in some sense because it is a desert, but it doesn't share any terms. With I mean, these two queries does down and these two queries don't share any term. So this is another trick that you have to use. So one trick is to. Let's say devise the right metric to use and the other one is to devise the right feature to use. Then

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
They lost the Creek. Is. A special rule. This is very, very easy to understand. It might be. Basically, you have a collection of records, for instance. In this, in this example you have a collection of market baskets. So there is this guy that both beer Coke and near this one which both water Coke sheets amicus on it. Then the goal of Association remaining is to find rules like this one. Coke implies me release. People buying Coke. Also buys milk. Associated with these rules of using some metrics like the support that is the number of times these rules. Sorry if this is rude. Holds in this case in the 60%. Because here you have 123 out of five. So it's almost 6%. And the confidence that is every time you buy Coke or better if you have a confident S 75% for instance. This means that in the 75% of the time when you buy Coke, you also bite me. OK. And there are many algorithms aimed at. Extracting rules of this guy here there are basically 2 main issues. The first one is a subjective one. That is, you have to decide to select or to choose the right values for these two parameters here, because for instance, if you. If you pick a small support, you will end up having huge amount of views very likely. If you if you select the high value for confidence, you will have very strong views, but maybe too few of them. So this is something that cannot be done automatically. Selecting the right, let's say values for these parameters is a task that only an expert. In the field can be conduct can do. And the other issue here is that you have to dig to my huge amount of data because you basically have to try to cross relay every subset of every transaction. So you end up having huge amount of data. You have to check. There are many algorithms to prune down. These data you have many algorithms that. Using strong mathematical assumption. Are able to complete this task in a reasonable amount of time.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
For instance. Suppose you want to cluster a query and suppose you want to, you know. You want to in some way. Expand your query, including some more terms in order to be able to, you know. To compute the similarity in a better way, you can use for instance this Association real methodology, because for instance you you can take a query like for instance. I don't know Obama OK. You you have analyzed your query log and you see that in the with this parameters. Here you have Obama associated with president. OK, so you can expand Obama with the word president. Then you can also. Go farther on and you freeze and scan. Expand Obama with elect and so you will you know Father. Expand The query in order to have a very you know a more meaningful three. Obviously this is a very naive way of of. Of expanding our query, there are many, many other techniques, But this is just to see how Association rules can be used as a OK as a treat. Ah.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
And right on time I finished the. First part of this story. If there are any questions. Otherwise there is a coffee waiting for us.
