No sane scientist has 300,000 independent hypothesis at 1 millimeter apart in the brain. Or searching for interesting results. Basically, you relabel the subjects, you rerun your hypothesis testing, and you do this about 10,000 times, each time measuring the size of the largest cluster. And this will give you a nonparametric estimate of the distribution of cluster sizes under the null hypothesis. And that's why alot of people like false discovery rate methods. You have your false discovery rate as the slope and everything that lies underneath that line. There's no agreed on the level for the Q. Define the local false discovery rate. And the local FDR method will help take those differences in account. Well, Karl Friston that was mentioned yesterday came up with his clever idea that you could run a simple statistical test at each location. All you need is a reasonable estimate of their marginals. A variant at the local FDR. You can fit a spline function, whatever he's going to the, but everyone is doing is taking the histogram and making a smoothed estimate at the histogram for the distribution. If there's a lot of overdispersion and you force it to be the theoretical null, you might end up with a percentage of null hypothesis that's greater than one which is impossible empirically from the data. And this is just a nice way to incorporate some prior information into the estimation of the false discovery rate. You need some special circumstances. Specifically, you need another covariate that you've also measured at each point where you've tested your hypothesis. Developed it in the context of a micro away. So you also have estimates of heritability for each location that you're testing, and you can get these from a number of databases. Any technique you wanted to do this, the one that we use is based on this observation that any distribution on the interval 0 to one can be well approximated by a mixture of betas. And specifically, at least according to Allison. The reasoning behind this is that many people think that cognition occurs in the grey matter, that the cortex that's that thin, wrinkly layer that lies on the outside of the brain. How thick it is, how curved it is in living subjects from an MRI image. We still have the problem with the dependence on X, but that's easy enough to solve. We're assuming that the bins are small enough so that within each X within each bin, the model is constant. Are going to be smooth between the bins. Then of course you get the very simple posterior density for each three of these quantities, as the mixture model times the smoothing parameters. Effectively, you thrown out all the information in the covariant. First of all, you just got another variant of the local FDR because you're approximating the distribution of the P values instead of the Z values. A couple of differences between the C, FDR and the local FDR. Measurements from this study random through the local FDR and I found that I had 12% more findings under the local FDR than I did under benchmarking. It's going to be affected by if that's a region where the patients are thinner than controls. And what we're looking at here is the outside surface. And so having that phenotype might be part of the biological cause. I say might because it's the assumption underlying the thing in schizophrenia. Benjaman ease and hasburgh false discovery rate gave me this many P values. When I run the covariate model, did FDR with only one been? So just to put it into some context.