It's flexible, evolutionary multifaceted analysis. For dynamic behavior pattern discovery, this is joint work with carpentry free, one singer and she went through along with Drew and Sean Young. How to understand the huge data behavior data sequence is very important. Behavior modeling second will be the pattern discovery and the third will be behavior prediction behavior is multifaceted, so we can use higher order tensors to model it. First is the high sparsity right? The high order tensors will bring us very high sparsity problem. The second is the high complexity problem. Our idea to solve this problem is to solve that we use the auxiliary knowledge as regulations to serve the high severity problem. I first will show our datasets and check the usefulness of leveraging multifaceted information and leveraging the flexible regulations. The last will be efficiency, loss and robustness to parameters. So given us a large behavior this sequence, we want a general framework that can fast and best fit to the behavior data. First, the framework should give a very nice presentation for our human being behavior. We first search search the data, mining this keyword to get the top 100 experts that we crawled their papers and information through 22 years. The dimensions in this tensor are author affiliation and keyword. So we said we find we notice that the human behavior is multifaceted and dynamic. When we build a human behavior, one is positive and the other is the high complexity. We use flexible regulations and evolutionary analysis to solve them. First, I will give the background and then we'll talk about the model, formulation and framework family and then I will give the experimental results and validations. You really with this crap human being human behavior as links between two types of objects. So when I post the photo on Facebook about Sheraton Hotel, I will check in and see with him. Another important feature of human behavior is dynamic pattern. Also about the Facebook messages can change overtime everyday.