This data model is generating external structure via his visualization tool. Process of trial and error will generate a mental model. We need to understand what what the user believe they know about the UI strolling, inspect how they use it. But we want to create a visualization tool that reducing the gap between the data model and external structure helps the light users to explore their DF data sets and queried sparkle queries. The for this to design we tested yet with the two different interface to complete a set of task of increasing complexity. Test driven studio Paris email for technical drawing words. Is an interaction within the interface and the correct an the same user will be using both interface, so this is within subject student balancing the user interface. So the independent variables where the user interface and the test this week built in the and the dependent variables are the complete is writing. That is Wikidata query helper. For this study, we make this story to 28 students that have only have taken the database course. They have no knowledge about semantic web of semantic web technologies and they were split into four groups and the way they chose in the picture. This is where three we face had that this subject generate more correct queries. The second epitasis was that this this subject things more. Code resumes using RDF Explorer and the newly potential was not reacted, so the resources are not in statistically least significant and that are important. This was that the test subject generate more code query graphs. We find time using early if it's product users we own knowledge about graph can explore earlier data sets and generated sparkle queries more effectively than when our baseline Ann Dr. Inquiries allowed users to solve more complex task. For for two bird we went to add missing sparker operators like optional and count. We want to improve their response times. We want to show who the mental model affects problem resolution using relative Explorer. So here is where the problem is. There is seats or other times other kinds of visualizations like faceted search. And in the other hand, we have also the visual query builders.