[0.0s - 29.0s]
I'm going to. I'm going to talk about earlier Explorer, so let's.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Start saying that there is a new user that want to know what currently endangered animals are related to extinguishment.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So for this the user cannot use search engine because they need to already. It's it's an article that has this information, but this user know that there is a lot of linked data on the web. The first things is panic because there is much linked data but.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Did you say well? We do that because is bad. Is general data that is.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
People in this data set, so let's start with Wikidata. So here is where the problem is. Start the user.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Probably will not know how to speak hotel great sparkle so the fears visualization that it ceased to interact or to obtain data for that as it will be on sparkle and point so so the user needs to know this particle an their souls will be only your eyes.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
But then there exists options as example Explorer, like this one. This one is tabulator allowed you to look into our source an check and the information available for this? In this case Explorator permits you to click on one resource and get the information of these resource and his relations in a tabular way.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
There is other ones like this. One is exploiter that allows you to browse the data set be a filtering and searching.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
There is seats or other times other kinds of visualizations like faceted search. This ones are in general more aesthetic than the previous ones, an. Can evaluate different kinds of information. As example here, you can see that data. These images are displaying as images and not use and you will die.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And in the other hand, we have also the visual query builders. This one is easy. Sparkle is that they fell 14. For Victoza yeah, and as you can see it's very simple an doesn't allow you to know what are you querying, but.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Other one like this one is update DQS does has better features because it allows you to search or filter but forces you to make your query in a 3 way.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
We have this other one that he's at this park will be so laser that has added facility also sparkle but it is really hard to understand and you probably need to know already sparkle to use it.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So where this is what is happening right now we have the data model that is early F an. This data model is generating external structure via his visualization tool. The user never interacts directly with the data model the user interacts with the visualization tools anbia. Process of trial and error will generate a mental model. This mental model is user. Just use it by the user to improve his capabilities to solve questions or improve his reasoning skills. So.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
We need to understand what what the user believe they know about the UI strolling, inspect how they use it. So the internal representation is created for an external representation. An most of visualizations tools don't allow the user to see that they are working on a graph, and in the other hand most of the visual query builders don't know or provide a new information for the user. To understand the system, if you are used to start working, when I knew that asset you will be having problems using both of these tools. So.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Or proposal.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Start with visual query language. We define visa credit graph. So simple director level graph versus the usual stuff and we also define visual query language with four operations that are in a listen and available at the new constant nodes in Alisa a new edge, an Ave edge. I'm going to show you this operation seeing another now and then it slide.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
But we want to create a visualization tool that reducing the gap between the data model and external structure helps the light users to explore their DF data sets and queried sparkle queries. Where here are a lot of links of the resource we will going to check, but don't worry about the query, the cooler because that is in the end the presentation tool so. Let's start with a little demo. So the user, once it stings, animals an endangered animals. So I'm going to start searching for this terms. So the interface provided you little search engine that will help you to start selecting resources. So I just need to drop this here and there are sources already in the graph creator I can answer to search for endangered animals. Here and we have the blood vessels that we need. I'm going to use a query so variable. I'm leaving this variable with their source I have created. Well I have done here is just create a simple triple and in this moment we have two variables, an resource but the interface will show me only the available results. So in this case I know that what I need here is the AC UNM conservation status and here is the same, so I'm going to check it now. We have in this variable I'll distinct. The animals and you're going to start looking around to explore what data is available about these resources so I can see that there is a lot of strange animals. So for example, this figure has's parent action at eerier, so I'm just going to drop that into the party creator. Now I have limited this query to only give me the stink triggers and now I am just generally cities. No, I have the state two years and the endangered Tigers, but I want other animals so I'm going to go to a Tigger and you say this is not a constraint anymore. This is available and now I have done the question that may user was trying to do and here is the sparkle. So as you can see there is a couple of features that help the user. To explore the data set and to make this his query.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So with this interface we did an install, so we will start explaining this to the studio design.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
The for this to design we tested yet with the two different interface to complete a set of task of increasing complexity. The baseline interface was Wikidata query service. Ann Lurie Interface was the other interface we perform. Test driven studio Paris email for technical drawing words. We will wait in the idiomatic level of the application with verified that the representation use. Is an interaction within the interface and the correct an the same user will be using both interface, so this is within subject student balancing the user interface. And we're balancing the user interface that once you send the first time, so we're content balancing. So this way we're results will be good because you need.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Winter blend. So the independent variables where the user interface and the test this week built in the and the dependent variables are the complete is writing. That is the number of queries that are correct. The correct order air DF resource obtainment that only evaluate the correct resource and doesn't matter if the query is actually correct and the correct query checked well so. Give the well so take the time.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
This is a screenshot of the baseline. That is Wikidata query helper. As you can see there is part of the interface that allows you to write a sparkle but they use virtual use if they don't know how to wear this purple. The other part that is a firm to help you to create ripples. This has a lot of examples so the user kind of code used this. And this is their full tool for querying Wikidata.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
These are the task we used for evaluating the user. As you can see the difficulties increasing. We start simple, just tripled fill out dogs. That is really simple to do, but then we are used adding resources or making circles circles so the queries are really hard in the end.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
You can check that the queries are hurting them because these are the results so you can see that the last one is really difficult to do.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And these one are the shape of the queries. The black noses are the black nodes are the resources and the white ones are the variables. So we want the user to get this to get to this.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
For this study, we make this story to 28 students that have only have taken the database course. They have no knowledge about semantic web of semantic web technologies and they were split into four groups and the way they chose in the picture. They have 40 minutes to do the five task, and this includes our little introduction of any of the interface user.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Now I'm going to change you the resourcing, the other.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
The 1st result is the completeness value is. This is the number of queries that were correct. We can see or interface has lower results for the first query, but the other ones were better.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
The things happens for the correct triples or interface is harder for the. Here is slower for the first query, but the other ones are better and.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
In the query shape, when interfaces is good always. So what's happening here is that. That we believe that the fears creating a table and or interface is harder to do. But as you can message, you need to do it explicitly explicitly. So is has a bigger learning curve, but that allows you to understand that you are working with graphs.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
For the validation of Horror Story, do we just use a simple parity validation because the data was normal and well, this is in the formula and the parameters not so interesting to say bye.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
But they put. This is where three we face had that this subject generate more correct queries. Use in early if Explorer. In this case the newly produces was rejected. This means that our interface is better in this point. The second epitasis was that this this subject things more. Code resumes using RDF Explorer and the newly potential was not reacted, so the resources are not in statistically least significant and that are important. This was that the test subject generate more code query graphs. Just an early efforts further and these in this case the normal epatha SIS was rejected, validating the alternative hypothesis so. Our interface is good in this point too.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
So let's start with the.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Conclusions. We find time using early if it's product users we own knowledge about graph can explore earlier data sets and generated sparkle queries more effectively than when our baseline Ann Dr. Inquiries allowed users to solve more complex task. However, this affects negatively. The total learning curve, so that is why the user is getting a little bit. That is because the user is trying to do the graph directly.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
For for two bird we went to add missing sparker operators like optional and count. We want to improve their response times. We want to show who the mental model affects problem resolution using relative Explorer. We want to transform and sparkle queries to or re server solution and we want to federate queries. Thank you.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Thank you any questions. Well, the interface can work with any LDF data set. If you have any sparkle endpoint you could just configured and the URL and loving property and the interface will work. Yeah, but the the interface the interface doesn't have a. Go to configure it online, you know, so you have to download my repository and change the file. Any other questions? One question for me. So. Your approach currently works with, so produces sparkle queries, right? Yeah, so do you think your approach could also be used for other query languages like like cipher or graph QL? Yeah, any query language can be used at the same base, while language that we can relate, but we are just in sparkle as that has the information that is more like a Bible for lay users you know. Do you think there would be any difficulties with query languages that are not RDF based at all? No. No, I don't think so, but. Sing yes. Does it work with the pedia? Yeah yeah yeah. I have a boat and web page. Well this square is used pointing to Wikidata, but if you write on TV. At early F Explorer that all you can also check data sample with the pedia in deposit. Ori two. There is an example of configuration both for both sides. So if you are interested in working with this is really easy to do it so again. It can be configured. Any other questions? Maybe 1 final question. So in your future work you mentioned that you want to support other sparkle operators as well. Do you foresee any difficulties with specific types of operators in your visual interface? I think them major difficulty on implementing other operation is that when you are trying to make more more special features and you are making the interferon more complex. So if you have a good idea of how to visualize this kind of operation children be a problem, but you know that when the user has a lot of stuff in the in, the page is really difficult for 10 to start using it. So that is the tradeoff. Alright, let's thank the speaker again.
