Why the semantic web is never going to work, but we forgot to put the quotes. I have come to Bury the semantic web, not to praise it much in the way Marc Anthony did, so my hope is by the end of the talk. The other key point was, but like the web, we would have to accept some things that were not traditional of ayk R&R right that we would never be able to get everybody to agree on everything. So here's a famous example I've used for many years is how many cows are there in Texas now? You would also have to deal with, you know the sex network can answer anything that troubles you. There are no cows in Texas. Ontology you could use that markup in portals and interfaces and things like that. Semantic Web succeeds by links. The quotes let me decide if I want to talk about why are critics were wrong when they said the semantic web will never work. Which is markets are created, created by disaggregating, the producer in the consumer? It says currently in about 10 to 15% as of last October of what the like buttons were and they are working very hard to encourage people to move to that now as of October, the number of likes per day being reported by Facebook was about 3 million. One use an and Facebook is encouraging its developers to. Moved to this version because they want the links. He basically said Folksonomy will win. Tagging is the technology of choice. Tagging his largely failed to meet its challenge, its promise. I call it the database Community fallacy. Semantic web will never scale. A million triples and things go to hell. Actually I switched the first 2 a couple minutes ago, but I'm going to revisit the semantic Web vision. Right, you cannot create an ontology at web scale. Logic and reasoning will not work on the web because people disagree about stuff, and because logic isn't powerful enough for what's needed now. What's been succeeding there to a very large degree is what you might call the bottom of the semantic web stack. So it's been the maturation of the RDF technology. We've designed languages and ways to embed it, but it was really the driving application of certain search advertising that made it have to move to the embedded style that we had actually rejected years ago. But what's been stunning to me over the past couple of years is just how little semantics. The ontology story is still confused. It's the most powerful thing it's about to take over the earth, but it's patrolled by orcs because if one little Hobbit gets in there and does the wrong thing the whole thing is going. That one and it will all go on the web and you know we will build the tower that reached the Sky, right? So who cares if we all speak diff? This is what the Tower of Babel, Tower of Babel was was in there. OK, so so I will has had successes. And there's really primarily using Owl again as the organizing structure vocabularies. There's nothing wrong with that because building expert system as a base as a business has never gone away, and having interoperability and tooling has always been an advantage to people who sell stuff or build stuff or do stuff engineers. It's useful when you have both a little hammer and a sledgehammer and a jackhammer, and all the different kinds of Hammers, right? So one is I think we have to be real that I think we have to bridge this gap. DL and even first order logic and even higher order logics are useful formalisms for K R&R, but they really don't address the needs of the web and empirical comparisons, which are often water used on the database, so the triple stores are really useful in comparing scaling. When we want to compare triplestores and column stores, we can you know put same stuff in and do lots and lots of queries against it. As an academic community surviving into the future, we must find formalism that's sort of our equivalent of a DB calculus or that takes what's going on in the a box world and models. So I think we need a sufficient formalism that can define what quote ontology is. So here's an idea about how to get there. Develop hybrids that have the best features of linked data and the ontology world. That's one a year so that first slide was from the talk in 2001, introducing the Semantic Web. Simple where were the agents right? Yet nowadays when we look at most of the stuff coming out of semantic web, we don't see all that much of that stuff. So why the semantic web will never work? No reason at all. It is working and it will continue to do so, but it is not the semantic web as envisioned 15 years ago. It's the first wave of that if we want to see the 2nd and 3rd and eventually you know the realized vision to move to that next level and to be all that we as a community aspired for in the early days we have to revisit and update the early versions of what we were doing for the modern web. I have to understand whether we're talking about thanks. Where are the agents and you know, do I think they're going to come about on the semantic web? And so this is from 1994. I won't read the whole thing, but what he's saying is that the documents on the web described real objects and imaginary concepts, and the relations between them. Right, and so a title document to a house describes the house, but also an ownership relation to a particular person, and he said a program could search for a house, negotiate, transfer ship of ownership to a new owner. But the idea was again a semantic language that ties the information on a page to machine readable semantics.