When I go to pop up at crew and alcohol men during my time at the Department of Information and Computer Science at the former Helsinki University of Technology, nowadays called out the University so. Existing literature has focused so far on the knowledge discovery Aspect, Mining Association rules, and frequent patterns in such sequences. A framework for doing that immediately, he or she would be able to decide on the existence of a specific database with over sequence within a database. So the matching step starting from the end is actually the sum of the distances of the matches that are suggested by the Hungarian algorithm. Artemis does not violate the identity of Indiscernibles, but unfortunately its complexities cubic with respect to the sides of the sequences. But divides the lower bounding technique for Artemis. The first was three American Sign Language data set where the information was from transcribing video of people practicing American Sign Language. In addition, in the end we also show we also want to get an insight on how tight the lower bound is and how strong it is. So we also tested tightness and it's pruning power, or one nearest neighbor similarity searches. The classification results do not give a strong. The reason is the fact that the way that the class information is encoded is not always the same. We experimented with two types of artificial noise. The two metrics which we used are the nearest neighbor retrieval accuracy and the rank of the nearest neighbor. On the left we can see the results for the retrieval accuracy on the right you can see the rank of nearest neighbor loads and. Through our experimentation, we found out that there's no clear choice for choosing either of the two methods. On the other hand. Of course the device faster distance functions that are also metric, so in speaking out of metric. So going up getting formal, this is the problem formulation. It's about devising a distance function which satisfies some typical properties that distance functions have. As sequences of instantaneous events, now we see that such a thing is not sufficient. So to circumvent this problem, what one has to do is use vectors to encode. We call them invent vectors, and each event vector encodes the number of active intervals for that time point and the time point we select, or the ones where the intervals start or begin. If one encodes the sequence into the event vector set. That's not the case because we see that the identity of Indiscernibles, also known as the largest law, is violated. That paper introduced 13 relations between intervals. The first is the mapping step where we map intervals into sets and then it's the matching step where based on the sets we get.