[0.0s - 29.0s]
On the higher. Build battle. Expect. Market cap. Can you go to propose your inner peace? Yeah, but it only W about the Tylenol is here anymore that baffled Arca. Only if you had a material Menards. I think it was yesterday from winery Goldilocks. Virtual as Wyatt Elder Gods gift to make a picture graph frequency. So yeah. Patient also for some clarity on food. Watching interested prudence after business care stuff would not generally regular to be. Data mining is semantic crap, talker to learning all this today. Creative team of the National capital on Yahoo German Ilona slow for data mining versus semantic left. English music. Here. And. Is indicated to talk will be actually a tutorial style talk on data mining. Presented you will see in parallel. Or in contradiction to semantic web. And also there is another talk which is actually doing the opposite, presenting semantic web as a tutorial. In contrast with data mining, because I'm one of those who tend to believe that the two approaches are actually just two different methodology's leading to the same goal, which is retrieval efficient retrieval of knowledge from large databases. And of course from the Internet. I'm representing here. Not only do University of Belgrade, but also a company called Ipse Belgrade, which was formed in Belgrade. With the money is coming from Germany, United States and Japan. With the major activity through. Do outsourcing. And also a number of sites. Product inside. And. This presentation here I will not be talking about what Ipse Belgrade is currently doing in the field of data mining and semantic web. But I can mention those issues. Some of them in the discussion and actually. I'm back here in Uganda for a conference. Will be held on the first Monday of April. But this time I will have more time. Tool. Talk also on what we have been doing and among our clients. We have companies like Google. So far 8 our engineers working for Google for Cisco for Microsoft or Sun Microsystems, 16 of them working with some Microsystems. For storage, stick thin soft in the bunch of other companies. I've also been invited to give a one semester course. During the fall semester and there will be a 30 hour. Presentation of all parents of everything in relation to this topic. And actually what I'm doing now is just the first, what 35 minutes of the 30 hour course that I'm supposed to be here later on. For those of you who are interested in data management and semantic web in general, if she Bill Gates each month or was in the most prestigious location for the world. Organizes conferences dedicated to data mining and semantic web with all kinds of different touches in E business. E education, quality of life and similar. The next one. In a market which is well. And available. Some of you may like school. To come there. This one was last week and more beta in Spain. Well, some of you may like to see what was going on there, but as I have said, common denominators. So all these events or data mining of semantic web electric, that's where we create Contacts. They bring us contracts or our industrial work at tipsy. Well. So what, if any of you are interested also in some kind of collaboration or? As far as joint research or or outsourcing or any other type of activity where we can discuss it out of the talk.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Well so. As I have already stated, data mining and semantic web or two different avenues leading to the same goal and the glory is efficient retrieval of knowledge from large databases which are either compact or distributed. And of course the ultimate goal is the Internet. Well in this environment will improve knowledge is. Synergistic interaction of. Old information which is built into data and relationships which is built into correlations and links. Between data in a relational database. So when it comes to the methodology of data mining and semantic web, the major difference is in my opinion, where is the complexity?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Where in the case of data mining, data and knowledge are representative with. Simple mechanisms. If it's Internet, then is typically HTML and no meta data, which is data about data you know are included. Consequently we have to use relatively complex algorithms. It's knowledge request retrieval request line. In order to retrieve what is needed. Well, in return. We are having a system. Which is characterized with the fact that at system design time. The investment is relatively small to basically don't have to build zillions and serial bytes of metadata. You basically just build in the algorithms from the top of existing database management system. And that's at the same time an advantage and all.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So a disadvantage in the case of semantic web. We thought and knowledge of. Mechanisms like XML and this means plenty of meta data. Hold of you who might be coming. I'm seeing her visitor social from other schools. For those of you who might be coming from other environments. Well, a data item related to somebody's name. Might be accompanied with gigabytes of data that shed more light on all aspects of interest related to that name. For example, if it's Ljubljana, then it well, the meta data may have last night for all the sweets or the history you know about the University about industries here and so on and so on. I've got is a consequence of the existence of meta data. Relatively simple algorithms can be used through retrieve complex knowledge retrieval request line. On the other hand, the system design time we have to. To invest huge efforts into the build up of the meta data which is. Tough.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Well, consequently when we talk about data mining, which typically talk about algorithms, here are some of the algorithms that are. Being used by the major tools these days.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And when we talk about semantic web, we typically talk about tools. Like trump. XML. To create basic meta infrastructure than RDF which is used to increase the semantic level of meta data. Typical problem with meta data is that semantic level of meta data is usually below the semantic level of a typical query. For example, we ask about. What will the weather be tomorrow and typical data? Or what was the weather in the past and how it was changing? So. We have to increase the semantic level of meta data in order to match better. Typical where instructions and this what are there typically used for and ontology languages are used in order to underline the essence of what we need. Because everything except what we need can be treated as a noise. In a large database on the Internet and we have to find a very good on. Apology type definitions so that we don't waste time on. You know, visiting what is otherwise maybe a very solid piece of information, but represents a noise for the particular query that we are concerned with, and when it comes to verification, lots of efforts still in progress, so the stress here is on tools.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Well, so long. What are typically do I present 2? Books. For which one?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Computer money to be presented today and the other one on Semantic Web. If we did together with a bunch of people from sample for FC, the company that helped create each Belgrade.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Will this tutorial was actually developed at the request of the MBA program of the New York University and actually both tutorials, this one and the other one I give periodically through the Internet or on the site or and why you? So the question is, what is the major difference or what are the major differences between data mining and classical database engineering? There are three major differences. The first one is uncovering the hidden knowledge. When it comes to databases. You can. Ask only. Questions you can place only the queries of the type which is pre defined at the database design time, like what is the average salary of an employee and so on and so on. In case of data mining. You're supposed to be able to get also an answer related to. Do something to a question which was not pre defined and thought envisioned at the database design time. And. Let me give you an example well. For example. If you like, ask. A question like. Well, you know, in Olympic Games we have five different ball games. Tokyo Pinball water polo, basketball and volleyball. If you ask, like. At the last World championship, what was the placement like off of? Like a Serbian. Pocketing, they will tell you well he didn't qualify. If you ask my quarters, what was the place of the Serbian? Cool water for Ana handball team. They will tell you #3. If you ask for like. What was done? Please man foil volleyball. They will tell us two and if you ask about basketball table 31. But if you ask like very something one can be arrived about the mental characteristics of the Serbian nation from those scores. The database will just, you know, put the question mark. Although data mining is supposed to give an answer even in such a case. Actually, a data model might be able to conclude that if the number of players in the team was five, they scored the 1st place is the number of players was six, which is horrible. They scored. #2 is the number of players is 7, which means more players. They would call it worse, which is number 3 in water. Poland and Campbell. And if the number of playlists is 11. There was quarter minus Infinity, so data mining should be able to give you an answer. Something like the more they are in the group, the words they perform. Now another important issue here. And another important difference is. How did the search bases here NP complete? Then? That means you are not able to use linear methods. We have to do something much more sophisticated than there where the sticks or algorithmic approaches which are much more sophisticated and #3 is the importance of various strong multi dimensional interface. Because once the knowledge is evil if it's thrown onto the user. In the form of numbers or graphs or barcodes or tables, and the user is really, you know, gets kind of blocked and is not able to absorb the essence. So basically we have to present the. The knowledge to the user in a form over over or some rich graphics that showed the essence may be accompanied with the other dimensions of the multimedia interface.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Well, in general you know. Chinese people say that one picture is worth 1000 words, and I've learned it's people in Slovenia say that one example is worth 1000 pictures. So let's start with an example. Assume you are marketing manager for a cell phone company and you have a problem. The churn is too high and that means that after the first one year contract expires, only 40% of your customers. Decide to renew the contract for another year, and that's not good for you, because in the 1st place it gave each customer or free cell phone worth 100 and 105 years dollars to sign. The one year contract. The initial one year contract and also you will give double the money so your hand headhunters. So the question is what to do and how to convince them to. From her tool free sign the contracts well, one obvious solution is to give each person and another new cell phone for free, but that approach is expensive so we have to think of something better knowing that once a customer leaves here, she will never come back really notice too. No problem. Assume that you have.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
You have decided to bring all your. Your assistance. Cool a brief brainstorming lunch at the Lake Blades in hotel computer and this is the algorithm that you have developed over over the full days launch event. For each particular contract, three months before the contract expires, you try to predict which customer will leave. So you see the backbone of the of the algorithm is in the prediction, so that's why the world is underlined, and then if you want to keep a customer which is predicted to be, then you. Give a free form. If you see that someone is not predicted to leave, then you doing nothing White will be good to go for oil for you. Absolutely no financial justification, and if you see that someone is not spending enough money, then if they don't care, you do nothing. So you remember the backbone of the of the approach is prediction. So how you predict what are the methods that you have available? Well this is 1 possible method, another one. But what is bringing us today? Here is data mining. Well, some of you I might be sceptical that they not data mining can can do for.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
He's skeptical that such a great computer with $16.00 he will have in your mouth. The consultant is suggesting that six months down the road the computer will cost half the price and will be able to at least twice as well. And this is exactly the situation to deal with data mining software later on in this tutorial we will have 14 different software packages analyzed and presented for you and for all of them this. Every six months later, the new version of the patches does more or less money.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Will offer this example. It can give you a formal definition from the textbook I'm using in Belgrade. Data mining is defined as the automated extraction of addictive information from large databases and actually the major layers in a data miner or the following form. At the bottom we have our good old well known database and then we have three more layers with elements of AI, artificial intelligence with the top layer also including. The elements of that with graphics user interface.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Rule about the history of data mining. Many believe that the history started in 1996 when three large layers formed a consortium. To create the first standard for data mining, software protection, the history started much earlier. So what was going in the hands of the scientists who recovered these ancient alphabets was nothing else but absolutely the same type of. Over data mining algorithms that used to be, except that they were running those in the brains and we run ours on our PC's. By the way, the full version of this you can get from my website. And it is. I'm not registered for making money out tutorials, so anybody can use at this tutorial and many others. You know, look around it even to use and even to make money if you can. If you think you can do that. So just go to Google, type in my first name and my last name and it will take you to my personal website and then some test point.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Well, another example is the repetition of solar activity. You know, Galileo Galilei discovered the repetitive patterns, seasonal or daily, monthly and annual activities and hardly trouble discovered the. The repetitive activities of solar sports well, none of the pools become famous if born after the year 1996, because even the simplest piece of software that you can download from the Internet for one week. Free examination. Can deliver the same knowledge if you dial. Into it the sample solver. Measurement samples for learn Oscilloscope directed to son.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And. I think the case of Halley Comet Edwin Halley predicted. Based on the partial data from these three years that the comments will appear during his lifetime, which she did. Then encourage without findings. He concluded that the comment must have appeared also in the years minus the year minus 239, and then he asked an assistant to go dig for some ancient and keep, you know, library materials and even the person did fine with sounds changed. Life was in the Sky in that particular year. Roll 'em later appearances, Sordes and the next one is is. Shelter Fulton Group frequently enough to ski along with India. I'm sure you will live long enough to enjoy that reappearance as well.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Well, many mixer data mining with data warehousing and other related activities. Actually combining is all that plus much more. Pho.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
In addition to data money from. Good memory. One can also deter mines from communication lines, and if you now go to DARPA website, you will see there offering huge monies. For this type of data mining, like data mining from cell phone, so fermentation lines of any kind and all that actually most of that's related to anti terrorism technology. Actually, you know what DARPA? DARPA is. A research sponsoring agency from United States. Three are budgeted from the military budget, but they are run by smart known non military individuals like. Co presidents or or or professors from major universities like Stanford, MIT. And. They go for high risk research. So it's very rarely that a DARPA project succeeds. For once, the heat is really a heat which changes, you know, the the. The world. A number Internet is also true that adult that started with the ARPANET. Side effects.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
No. So it pays off from time to time to go to the doctor website, see what it is. The problem that they offered the money for that and all this peer groups. Try before so actually move for research topics for. Master

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Well, in the rest of this tutorial. We have a the following four parts and of course in the zip time which we are having here will be able to predict the introductory post, but then you go to my website and there you find materials for 30 hours of lecturing. Now, when it comes to problem types. The typical with six different problem types, but in reality we. I actually always have some combination of the six.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
All just run through quickly. So we have more time for what is more important, which is the algorithms. So data description is 1. Segmentation is another one. Classification is still another one. Description.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Is important application prediction was that you remember the subject of the example, so is similar to classification, except that here this field becomes continuous from the discrete experiences in the past we create a curve. Which we first interpolates in the past and then we extra police that curve into the future. And then we pick up the discrete points on their continuous future curve and that's the essence of prediction. Question was it? I mean, are there any? Significant applications going to Stock Exchange market. So yeah, they are because that is so loose in Stock Exchange market. Yeah right. Actually, you are absolutely right. Some of the most sophisticated prediction algorithms in this domain has been developed in the Stock Exchange market, and the only problem with those is that they don't make money. You make money when you have abrupt changes. Then you have impulse, noise type changes and these algorithms will not predict there. So actually the best money making algorithms on this purchase change to combine this approach from data mining plus another. Aspect of data mining which is. Mining from the related environment. For example like. Experience says that. Before a company will suddenly go down or up. During the 24 hours before that there are changes. Unusual changes in the amount of traffic to and from the company or in relation to this. You know website is and so on and so on. So actually yeah, you are right. In order to be successful one here to combine several methods and you will see later when I talk about the software. Different software approaches are based on inference algorithms that they work the best with their combined.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
No dependency analysis is also new.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
How about the models will? I just want to be a familiar with neural networks as. As an approach.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And actually, even up this presentation. We have for each particular algorithm we assume the user audience already knows the essence and we just underlined what we feel is the major point or the Achilles heel. And in the case of neural networks, you know that we get the outputs of the week, combine inputs and related. Pretty freaking coefficients according to some formula which is built into the neuron body.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And then we combine. Neurons in brain network and the major Achilles heel of the approach is the training process and that's why we have the role of your piece of animation which is. Personally, extremely slow. So once forever you remember that the training is the major problem with neural networks because you waste your computer time that you pay for and you're getting nothing else but you know the muscles of the neural network. So we have a freely on network with the center new law school is of the networking and the output and doing the thinking process. You compare what you get from an untrained network with what you know is the reality and then you feed that back and you either change the function inside the neuron body or you change the the coefficients in the arts. Of interconnection network. And then you bring in a new and training input, and then you iterate. And actually you have to iterate over and over again for many creations and both of time wasted before you finally can. You are. You are all net worth. Trip. So this is the deal is here.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Well, no decision trees is another approach will. I like your network switch work. Fine if you are not able to represent or even to describe the problem algorithmically. Decision trees are a good approach where you have a pretty good grasp on the environment. And.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Well, here is an example of shouldn't you work for a bank here in look down? And if you could decide who to go alone. And if somebody has a balance of more than 10. Girl. Like $1,000,000 then you give this person alone. Or or maybe 10,000 words. And well. However, if the balance is lower than you continue to analyze the applicant and then you should see that the guy is young and not married. You don't give him alone why, because the guy will spend all his money in discotheques and pubs around with Johnny. However, if he is married there no matter how, how a young and poor he is, you will leave him alone because you know the wife will make sure money goes back to the bank.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
The. So well, actually we have two types of multivariate and univariate time. For algorithms, more about it later on, actually later on as I progress with the 50 hour version of this tutorial, I'm getting to each particular application with lots of mass and all their stuff it full moon Max. Then you may appreciate. And this is now just an introduction.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
No, you reduction is another method where you. Basically. Cover all possible situations with specific rules.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
And the rules sometimes actually the rules, are you allowed to contradict with each other because you gather the rules through this particular analysis. Actually, through interviews with typical users, for example, for the same as banking example, if someone has a balance with more than 100,000 euros, you give that person the way to 1.7 and. Well, this guy has less money, but he's married, so give it. You give him a better wait. We use a better client, although he has less money now. The rule #3 is conflicting with the first rule, and that's OK because we here we are building our decisions on some kind of statistical mixes now. The. Major problem with rule induction. Do you remember your children from I have a piece of animation telling like we are the major problems, so the major problem here is how to treat the cases with very very small probability to happen, but once it. You know it happens. Once the event happens, you have an enormous impact. For example, the September 11 was an example of a low, extremely low apriori probability event which, when it happened, really did change the world. The world is not the same anymore. For in order to underline this issue, I have a question now for you. For this particular scenario, what is the next most likely events to happen? For the Wolf to eat the rabbit or from the ready to run away. Sometimes this is what happens. A realistic scenario which happens very infrequently, but. If it happens, then you have really, uh, an enormous impact. Well, some of you again. I see the question marks on your face is not believing that this scenario is realistic, but I can prove it is, you know, the story about the rabbit in his PhD thesis. Actually. And humid Fox. And they did me for a long time, so they got engaged into a, you know, a friendly discussion and folks asked what's new in the rabbit, said, well, I'm doing a PhD. What's the topic? Isn't the topic is on how rabbits in Fox is? Well, the folks didn't believe, but the rabbit offered a demo. So they went together to achieve in 5 minutes later the rabbit goes out alone and then he meets the Wolf and then the same question what are you doing? And the answer was peace be on rabbits anything Woods again the world did not. Believe and then they went again to the same key for the demo and findings. Later they read it goes out alone. Well, now the very very cautious because the rumor is already spreading around the corner. So she asks. Here's a reservation, crosses in the hospital called Orzo. RPG on already sitting bears. Will they go together to The Cave 100 yards later on? They see a big pile of bones from the Fox and another 100 yards later they see a big pile of bones from the Wolves and then another 100 years they see. Big lion with a toothpick. So what is the moral of the story? It doesn't matter how stupid is the topic of European species is, what matters is who is your major advisor.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Really make you some team members neighborhood we are. Using the memory basically.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Here we have again piece of information which tells about the essence of the of the approach and the major applicability of the approach. Well, yeah, we first well an event happens and then we create a history. And then within the history set we apply some kind of majority logic and and then we do a guess in peacetime the guess was fine. And and then the same again. We only guess was fine. Same again also funny. Well now here we are becoming aware of the problem. The guess here will depend a lot on how big is the history. If we take the small history which encompass as long as this one, it could be fact. It's a bigger history. It could be white if it's an even bigger history. It will be green because the green balls prevail. This example will be more like it this time, but the question is what to do here? So now you know that this type of approach is good only if you like to reduce. A large program. Do a small one so you can treat it more efficiently with other tools mentioned so far. So basically this is the best user user. And the major problem here is how big in the history. For example, if you you have a actually some way this was borrowed from raw practice in courts. If a type of current happens which is not covered by the existing law. Then you typically look into how a similar case was treated by another. Respect. Could judge elsewhere. So how far in the past we go to grow only on field? Drill scrub does Ella creation time, or maybe to go all the way back in 1945. Or maybe go to all the way back to Roman was suggested question. Especially in cases where you have discontinuity. Like in the example I gave. So, so this is the essence of the applicability of.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
We are. And we have many other available models and algorithms. And actually, these here are where we do our most of our research. In regression we are helping a company in New York Hall of its Jacobs to use regression in data mining. The structure in. The food market economy. Products for maximizing the revenue. And some of the projects that. Most critical so responsible for our goal in Tropicana and things like that, like how big the chunks of fruit should be in the Tropicana Juice and how that impacts the overall sales and things like that. Now in the case of this filament analysis, we are now doing some work for Google where we have to data mine email in order to. To extract. Some information about psychological. Psychological state of the minor female author. You know the the series. That on college is basically oncology problems come from from the setup of your mind and even if you have, you know a pattern, going through the family doesn't go because you inherited the cell problems. But because you inherited the mind, you know the wrong mindset up. Like you worry too much, about 3% from New York. Too much jealous and envious source or things like that. Knowing Key in case of some Microsystems we used again. Or two. The commander concepts in their databases and we do that together with University of Regina. With the group around professor to magic like you see, if you like really. State of the art retrieval is based on semantics. Like you say. Like I'm married and I have a husband. This semantically two different things, but conceptually that is the same, right? So the role here is. Combine to combine or different semantic entities that lead to the same concept and in the case of Dow Jones. Bookmark reuse. Data mining picture in genetic algorithms. Cool. 2. Basically. To improve dictation. Algorithms and some of their applications. If you go to my website you will see actually. A bunch of presentations emotionally if you go through the list for papers you will find about 50 IEEE Journal papers covering these things during the positive key. Mildred.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Random. Well. Of course, one makes data mining more efficient. Combines methods. So basically use each one in the way which. Which shoots the best it's.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Nature. And of course. The bottom line in each store is the process model that or is based on. Here are some of the process models building to an earlier set of tools but decreased through.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Model tends to become a standard. And this was. Device together by three companies. Mercedez SPSS which is. Money for the company and NCR National Cash Register.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
The. Well, in this message you have the four level breakdown. And use in between every two levels you have a gap and the word gap to cover is the one when you move from generic to specialized. When you do inductive reasoning. So I was asked to finish like 5 minutes before 2:00 o'clock and that means I have work about. 1 1/2 more minutes for growth. So why?

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Will. Maybe just shed more light on the problems of mapping generic to specialized. So this is the. This is the recipe that I talked to. Chris Model is doing. And.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
And here comes an example from cooking like assume you have to prepare food on your own and invite your friends. And well, this is a general task here and now you have to do. So. Transform it into a set of special tasks along the lines of the of the six recipes. From fix part of the recipe from the previous slide. And then you have to decide. There should be a magic in it and then again.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
During the decision making process, you have to. You know, again the same 6. Elements of the recipe. And then you decide. And so on. So basically the scripts model source from business understanding. And iteratively it goes to data understanding and back, and once you are happy with what you have gotten, will continue with data preparation and and modeling. And then you iterate for some time until after you turn into evaluation and deployment. I think this is the best woman to stop, so this is just actually the first academic hour of the circular thought, which I. Remember. Download from my website. Go to Google, type in my first name and my last name. Then you click your skin bunch of bullet holes. Which one says tutorials. Can you go there and then? So thank you for the attention. I hope it was not too boring you. So I think we have some time for questions and comments, and since many people on data mining I guess. I have a question on general importance as you say. Privacy with respect to doesn't mean I was able to see some of the elaborations. Regarding privacy verdict, committing to something like that, they would have any insight into. Will. Want to talk about the privacy of data? Which is the input for data mining and the privacy of results. Which is the opposite of mine. Well, when it comes to input data, you remember the four layer approach over data mined. The bottom one is the data base and actually. Older privacy that you have inside the data. Please system. Eve. Satisfactory. For general server applications will be set of satisfaction for this particular one, which is data mining as well. And now when it comes to them. Final results. Then again. You either stored the final results back into some database and then use the same privacy message for your transmitted. In which case you deal with a new set of privacy problems then. All related solutions related to the privacy of communication lines. Is that what you asked me to bind? Or so? In other words, I'm saying that here. We are leaning. Porn. What the privacy prevention is built into the memory and. From vacation well, the algorithms themselves. They just, you know, handle data and. Not propagating privacy level by algorithms that would be somehow right, reasonable? I mean you can you can you can get. Reachers information right? Aggression is wash your face and you piece of information. What is the privacy level would be? That piece of information to treat it act right? Should it be the same as all ingredients, or should it be better or? World. Less. Yeah. Actually. I think I've seen a paper recently coming from. Drama. Or electrical engineering Department. We are they use agents. Tool define the privacy level of intermediate data in some kind of. Hello. Processing, which has elements of data mining, but their paper was actually not related to data mining words. More related to semantic web. Yeah, that's a good thing. I mean. But by by semantic processing you can. We can. Structure information in in more. Pervasive way, not you get more clear idea of a person to have information. Pinky. OK. Maybe a short time for the end. You mentioned that later, man.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Cool ways toward the same goal. So in the time available he went quickly through datamining. So could you short words say something about this duality? How this we just a single? Wrote you sure? Turtle. Expect knowledge. From an existing database. Venom. Your better option is the command. Because the assumption is that creating good quality metadata is extremely time consuming and. Doesn't pay unless you will have repeated patterns of knowledge extraction in the future that would justify the effort and for newly created databases. You have a choice to grow the database approach which we stress on algorithms for the data mine approach, which means stress on meta data and tools to handle meta data, and then which way you go get I think depends on the application. So I would say that most approaches do have future and actually like in each and every activity of the life. The best solutions are not at extreme points, only data mining or only semantic web. The best solution is the optimal for the maximum reciprocal, typically somewhere in between the extreme points and in this particular case that means combining data mining and semantic web with the best performance. Just my personal opinion. Combining the two through some kind of synergistic interaction. And when I say synergistic interaction, I mean the two together. Being able to achieve something that none of the two alone is able to achieve. Anything else? So if not, I'm sure professional opinion which is here around. If you would like to contact him after the similar advice. Thank you very much once again. I have said. We are bringing together in a monthly release the major. This field mostly from Japan and USA, potential from within communities, and if any of you like to come to this conference is too late for exceptions based on full paper and and peer review. But we also have the abstract. 5. Acceptance, which goes until March the 1st for the conferences Thursday to Sunday, March 23rd through March, March 26. Hope your friend. Put some data mining reform please. Where is this? Is it normal for me in Naples, Naples? Reply from Fiesta. I know because some other friends hopefully agree, but there and back cost 180 years.
