[0.0s - 29.0s]
The next presenter is. Not sure which is the leader of the process project and I would say also the soul of the project. If it is on the process and he will. He's an expert in Internet, future Internet and future options and opportune iti's for small companies in this area. Thank you Roman. OK, good morning. So since we are very limited with time. Will start immediately and. I will talk.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
About few things, so just to set the scene for the rest of the presentations, I will give briefly description what wireless sensor networks are just in case somebody is not. Familiar with it? Then I'll present process project, which is the Happy Sewing project. That's a Co. Organizing this event and I'm as a coordinator. I'm very happy to see so many people here, which means that we're doing something that's of interest, not just to us, but to some other people as well. And then just a few slides about Internet of Things and future Internet and basically how these wireless sensor networks and the whole area is evolving and where it is heading to.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So while the sensor networks are basically. Networks of a number of small devices. Small meaning kind of this small smaller than this. And each device with a microcontroller that can execute some logic with a wireless interface, mainly short range wireless interface at all. Few 10s of meters or few 100 meters can be Bluetooth. Rarely. Zigbee quite often or some proprietary. The. Technology and then the device has one or more sensors or actuators so they can sense to measure temperature, pressure or ECG or. Level of blood or low sugar in blood and so on. And the idea is that you have all these small devices collaboratively working together and executing a task, monitoring an area or monitoring of phenomena. And whatever they. Collaboratively come out with with information. They transfer it via gateway to the external users, so that's the general idea. So replace maybe more expensive sensors that can be really expensive with the number of smaller ones that are less expensive, but together they can provide the similar quality results as they are very expensive ones.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So how the researchers envisioned it? It started for six 710 years ago and mainly people saying OK, so we'll have a airplanes or and then we drop them hundreds, thousands or hundreds or thousands sensors even more over a field they land. Then they detect each other they self organize, say one say I'm the boss of this cluster. The other say, OK, we are in this cluster. Then they interact with each other. They transmit all the information from one small note to another one to another one to another one, and eventually it ends up at the user. They also said that OK, so one of the requirements is that these devices have to work for years cause if you deploy them in a field, it's an you have thousands of them. It's kind of difficult to go and chase them through the grass and replace the battery every second day so it wouldn't work. Mainly there are diploid to execute one particular task. For example, in the military applications they would think about monitoring an area, whether some people are passing through or vehicles are passing through and detecting the actual part where they're going through. They interact with the rest of the world where these called sync nodes or gateways. So that was the general concept.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Typical applications were these security or military. That's kind of where it started with. Then we move to environment, forest fire detection, agriculture, flood monitoring, maybe then smart infrastructure smart bridges where you put sensors directly into bridge and then you can monitor the usage of the bridge. The frequency which is oscillating and so that you can react immediately when you notice that something is going wrong or smart buildings, smart homes, then industrial processes and monitoring of industrial machines or industrial processing. And actually not just monitoring but also influencing the process and having this control loop working. Part of it is asset tracking and management. One application that already quite well deployed and it uses the monitoring of cars or some big company fleets while mobile networks then health and Wellness is one of the really big areas where it started with the cost of providing health care the way it is provided today in hospitals is going. Very high and the number of medical personnel is going down at least in the UK. Germany, Ireland, for example and then to do something about it was OK, so let's use mobile networks. Let's use these small sensors and try to monitor people. When they are outside of the hospital and use that to improve the efficiency of the whole process. And it's not just for. People with health problems, but also for healthy people so that they can improve their fitness levels or lose weight or. Whatever they want to do, but with the kind of constant supervision of. Educated persons

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Honda with the typical applications we get. Also typical research problems. One note, one of the first one was the routing. So how do you route information from one small note to another one to another one to another one? And how to eventually get to the gateway? How to do that? Efficient so that you lose the least amount possible of energy of East of each of the nodes? How to reduce the energy of all nodes equally so that you don't get one shortest path, all nodes dead and everyone else happy, but they can't work because they are now completely separated. How to do clustering. Self organization. How to do this energy scavenging? So how to get energy from the environment from the oscillations frequency or no solar energy whatever. How to do that in such small nodes and also how to define a task for sensor nodes. So cause mainly these nodes were not envision to have. IP address, although nowadays with Internet of Things that's becoming possible. But you say, OK, I'm interested in a temperature in that corner there, and in that corner there not information from this particular sensor. And there was a whole research area about how you define your task, who will execute and how to actually get all that information back to the.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Location. OK, so that's setting the scene that those are that's wireless sensor networks. And the process project which is.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Court Action Project FP 7. Is about wireless sensor networks. That's the main topic and the project started 2008. Will finished in a few months. See the budget and the partners were Erickson as a coordinator and we had a faculty of electrical engineering. Information technology from Scorpion in the Legal University, Birmingham or so. Technology School, electric engineering from Belgrade and Institute user Steven hearing done.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And the objectives of the project were to set up. Wireless sensor network. Research labs in Scorpion Belgrade, then to build up competence of researchers in Western Balkan region. In this particular domain. Wireless sensor networks. Then to provide opportunities for mobility or all the researchers that are working for different partners so that people can go and visit other research centers and learn work together on some new projects or prepare new projects or just increase the competence. Provide opportunities for networking with a wider research community, so not just between eight partners, but with many others. And to do that, we organize the number of research workshops and the last but not the least, is to raise this public awareness in this region. And this is one of the actions that we do here today. So this is this technology is not just for researchers. It's very nice for research. There are lots of interesting problems. But there are also a lot of interesting applications of that technology, and actually a lot of opportunity for, especially for small companies to build different pieces of technology to use different pieces of technology to make some commercial product.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So so far we had four workshops, 2 summer schools, 5 special sessions, free seminars. There was a there is a book that's prepared by the partners in the project. It will be published by Springer's this year and the result of new research equipment purchased. So that allowed all partners to experiment and see really how this technology work. What can we improve? How we can, how we can use that in different scenarios? 2 main. Scenarios that we were considering during the project for health care and crisis management scenarios, and some of the. Applications that were done during the project you will see in some of the later presentations and I.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
You have a few examples, so one is monitoring forest fires. So during summer, a lot of countries, especially those that are closer to some Mediterranean area, they have problems with forest fire, a lot of forests have disappeared because of that, and one way to deal with this is to use the sensor networks. To deploy them throughout the forest or some critical area and detect fire when it really starts so that you can react quickly so you will. You will lose probably small portion of forest but not everything and this is something that 'cause there was a nice demo at one or previous workshops with all the trees and grass and all the sensors and we had even fire almost started there. So that's, uh, so there is a proof of concept. To show that OK, yes you can use some of these technologies. Not commercial product, but if somebody. Is really key. Nancy Business case can take that, improve it and really make it.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Commercial stuff. Smart roads monitoring. That's a big area, so if you enable all the cars to interact with each other or talk to each other so you can get information from the car in front of you, what's happening so you can stop before you would stop. Otherwise, or like we're just coming this morning, David and myself and one woman scratched my car because she was trying to squeeze between me and the end of the road and it was not possible. So if he had some of these sensors, maybe she would have stopped before doing that. Luckily enough, the scratch is only small, so it's not a big problem.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Then some of the healthcare scenarios or fitness scenarios where people can wear some of the ECG or blood pressure or even some sensors that can analyze your sweat. And based on that they can do certain things and conclude what's wrong with you or what you should do, and then you can use it while running. Some doctor can monitor ECG and if you are preparing to run a marathon and actually after 5 kilometers your heart rate goes. 22150 or something and you get some heart disorder. Then they will say OK, forget about Martin. Go play chess or something. Or if you are fine, they will say OK, just continue this way or this way and then you will eventually you will be able to run more.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
One of the technologies always interesting team and waste management is another application that's of interest where you can monitor all these waste dumps and monitor the temperature inside the monitor. Some of the chemicals that are or some chemical processes that are happening and then you can react and maybe. And do something about it. If you notice that some chemical reaction will happen that can cause some environmental pollution. And there are more and more applications. These are just a few examples and we can. I can probably stand here and talk about this application for whole day.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
We won't exhaust the complete list. So that's wireless sensor networks and some of the applications. And mainly when you're talking about wireless sensor networks you talk about. Isolated system so you have waste management application. I put my sensors there and on the summer in my house I monitor from my PC what's happening there or I put some ECG sensors on me and my doctor sees what's happening with me. So that's kind of isolated systems with Internet of Things. The idea is to blend all these applications or all the systems. So yes, I put those sensors interface for the monitoring waste, but I want everybody to be able to discover those sensors and to use that information for maybe some other purpose completely. Maybe they will have to pay me for using those sensors. Maybe they will have to ask me first for some credentials, yes, But the idea is that you connect all these different devices smart devices as they are called. And make them accessible by anybody who has proper authorization to use them and then to start building application services on top of that.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So Ericsson has this 50 billion connections by 2020 Vision saying that, OK, not just sensors and actuators, but there will be 50 billion. Connections to all sorts of different machines, including coffee machines and refrigerators. And temperature sensors and everything else, and the number of machines is much higher than the number of people living so obviously from the. Ericsson Ericsson like companies and from mobile operators company interview. It's a big market cause Slovenia probably as well. Everybody has mobile phone penetration is at 90% or 120%. Everybody has more than or not everybody but people with two or three phones or whatever. So you can't sell more mobile phones easily. But the machines they are just starting Beautiful Creatures to sell them a connection and not just tell them connection but also provide some new services that are not possible today. So everything will be connected. And some of the ideas this is, these are these from survey that Ericsson Consumerlab did recently, so some people were saying OK if I have these sensors in my shoes I can dance with a partner who is somewhere way. Some people say, well, I don't know if that count really is dense, but OK. Some people who like animals would like to see if dog is suffering or not. Is he happy or not? Or like this one here, no? These people. They earn money by wearing this big. But newspaper itself, whatever it's made of so then they go around the street and say, OK, pub down there or pop down there. So this way you can everybody become can become a walking billboard. And you can even make it location based and while passing through the main streets you advertise this shop or that shop that's close by. When you go somewhere else, you advertise something else. So these are some of the crazy applications, and even for probably for all four of these you can say, come on. I mean, who will do this? But historically it proves that strong many times, and I guess when people say OK, mobile phones Huawei would you need mobile phone? You have fixed phone and then suddenly until 20 or 30 years later everybody has mobile phone and don't even use fixed phone. So that's something that will eventually come.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Either this form or some other form. One of the hits of GSM three GSM event in Barcelona this year was this tree that was on Ericsson stand and it was connected three so it had some sensors and it was able to talk sip this mobile phones I messed up. And when somebody passes by, it would start shaking or dancing and some lights switching on and off and sending tweeting. Yes, it was sending messages to Twitter and people were following. Actually the three on Twitter. So it was just a gimmick. But it proved that you can do many things unusual things with this technology.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So the idea is to have everybody on Internet and everything on Internet, not just our PC's and mobile phones, but all other devices and to build technology that will enable us to blend all these devices together, interconnect them to enable access to information, information about the real world and to use it in this digital world and to interact with the real world and to influence it as well.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
I won't go for this, but since a project is one of the FB 7 projects, the big ones and it's about Internet of Things and future Internet. There is this website you can go there and there are some life scenarios that you can see. How we think that people will go. To work in the morning and some other ideas. So to conclude, Internet of Things is one of the key drivers of future Internet. Future Internet is a big research area now, so it's a. Research about how to change current Internet into something new that can serve all the new requirements that are now put in front of Internet. There is huge number of potential applications of Internet of Things and it's real opportunity for new business. In the words for new entrepreneurs. Really whole lot of different. Services

[551.0s - 580.0s]
We build there. And I would like to thank you for being here today, but we still have two events of the process. One is a RFID workshop. We will talk about RFID and about some. How to use some of these sensors lyrical Hanson and we also have a summer school which is covering number of different applications that will happen in America and always so it's not far away. So if you are. Willing to learn more, these are the good opportunities that's.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
20 minutes ahead. Thank you very much.
