[0.0s - 29.0s]
This is going to be another presentation of. A person who is going to beg you to bear with me because this is, yes, a very fresh research or research in progress, not completely finished and not completely as Justice Loder said. I have thousands and thousands of paper work to do, so this is just a draft from what I did so far. So I have formulated this as somewhat of a. Personal storytelling revolving around my recent 10 month research stay at Bratislava. So being a researchers researcher on various phenomena regarding Yugoslav modernist housing, I had put together a research proposal. Which I have ambitiously titled, mass housing of Czechoslovakia, housing developments in the second half of 20th century, and the role in the European and Global Exchange of technologies. An older colleague of mine told me that in order to get the funding you have to have a stupid title. Apparently it worked, so I got the funding and.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Started the research. This is the agency in Slovakia which is actually granting the money for the research and I have to say of course you have to sort of cleverly formulate the topic so we can come back to that later but. Why I actually wanted to to investigate this potential technology transfer is. Based on some previous knowledge and some previous experience on the topic.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So. Almost all of the most important engineers in in Serbia, for example, have been of Czech or Slovak origin or training. This one is just one of the most famous and the first one actually coming to Serbia. Furthermore, I had some documentation.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Which I'm going to show you a bit later from service engineer an Ethernet or as you were Slavia, which collaborated with Tresca. Slogans covered. This could damage cosmology list. You will see that later. So this happened during the crucial years of the housing expansion in both both countries, and I believe that there was something to it, so there must have been some exchange of technologies and there was, but not just the way I pictured it. So in 1918, Czechoslovakia gained its independence from Austro Hungarian Empire, and it was its technologically and industrially most advanced and most resourceful region of the empire. Therefore it comes as no surprise. The fact that the iconic housing experiments were happening there so far.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Example, you need this. But you're not a weeb.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Different cooperation projects. And.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
There was also a.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Very important theoretical framework to it, such as Carol Tigers name and she beat.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
It is no surprise that there was a lot of enthusiasm coming from Yugoslavs at that time. When it comes to collaboration with Czechoslovakia, but there was a significant lagging behind when it comes to this. Loves this lagging behind, continued for many years Meanwhile.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
You have pledge Nick working in Prague Boat as an architect or.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Teacher for example, you have the work of his students published in Architechture a. Just cause lines correct.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
You have.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Wild America traffic. Who was born here in India? Who is working on concept of various butter towns or bacha? And bought a voice one of them. And. For exam.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Do you have? Jan dubovie

[406.0s - 435.0s]
You have Nikola Dobrovic who is studying at Tresiba to as one of I think, 12 graduate students of check. Polytechnique. And in Belgrade, architecture is. As I.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Shown beginning to look, you know modernist like, but it's just the form the most of the layouts and the important thing with the technology. It was still traditional. So.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
In 45. Both of us live in Czechoslovakia, become new socialist or Communist Republic's. Czechoslovak Republic is trying to continue where interrupted before the war, so Edward banished came back from the Exile in London and we assumed his previous position as the President of the Third Republic. In 1946, he presides the National Coalition with Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, which won 38% of votes and that was its best performance in the election. However, during the 1947 its popularity dwindled and. Most observers believe that God told who was Prime Minister would be turned out of office at the elections on 1948. Now we all know where we were in 1948, but what we often fail to remember is how Tito's actions were actually quite timely, and you have Korean War happening you have. Problems with Judy are you have communists in France and Italy dropping the coalitions and you have February 1980, nineteen, 48 coupe that I'm Czechoslovak. So Clement Waldorf took over the power and this relevant because of the simplest solidarieta. So the urgent issue to deal with the after work crisis in housing was this project. Since Czechoslovakia of course. With Stallionz involvement. Refused Marshall Plan. There was this set up this this new project to tackle the. This was basically a disaster response to the in order to house the needy so. In 1946, they launched these this project, which was supposed to last two years, so until 1948, and to build housing in various cities of Czechoslovakia. But what is also very important is. That its aim was also to set up what will later become the housing economy. Up the idea was to set up the standards and infrastructure for the project of housing and for building it on large scale.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Four, I'm just going to go very briefly through the. Basically infrastructure of it.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So there was the response as well or a bit of delayed in Yugoslavia.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And there.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Different typology is built.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Out of the country.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
But The thing is, I would recommend to look further into into books of.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Barbara Spitzer Cova and Kimberly Ellman's article.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Up just not to to drag a lot in this topic. This project actually failed everywhere except in good valve and clean. Whose brigades were far more experienced and better organized than other Co OPS in the country. Having the experience as but one of the party towns. Objective reasons were pushed aside and this project's failure was used as propaganda. As a poster child. Of the coupe failure in the Post group Czechoslovakia. So stop a product which was established in 1948 after the coupe. And it was basically meant to be a central architectural and urban design office. And it got assigned First Battle, Attica five years plan. Actually drew some conclusions from from this failed project and its main key points were just as in Yugoslavia. Case deprivation, modulation and industrialization or prefabrication. Hence, which was usually the argument. Not much was actually taken from Soviet. As Kimberly says, because of the previous research, engeline and the extent of typification and certain standardization achieved by the first hour product administration, this area of the building sector, meaning housing, was much more developed into Slovakia than that in Soviet Union or other parts of the Eastern Bloc. So in Yugoslav case did the initial admits administrative socialism and the accompanying Micronization, which was a planning tool that actually did not, was not very well implemented. Basically it was pretty soon abandoned and just like in Czechoslovakia, these knew experimental methods were actually. Taken into consideration so. More flex, more flexible solutions, more various solutions and.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
In 1948, is actually the part. The year where it was live in Czechoslovakia take different different parts and I will come back to this a bit later. So a big leap forward. To 1964 in architectural trasera, the crucial professional magazine of Czechoslovakia. There is an article by Marie Benesova on Yugoslav architecture. So from 1948 to 64 there would be just marginal appearances or reportes on Yugoslav architecture. These were usually the buildings that are either not so relevant or tiny pictures, so I was thinking. 1948 and the big issue was just a bit of a too sloppy argument. There might be something to it. But actually I found no documents, just oral history told me that you could slide was pretty much you know, a topic that nobody nobody. Wanted to discuss everybody wanted to avoid. So this article actually comes at a very interesting moment. The bilateral agreement was signed by. Competent professional associations, or both countries? Probably preceded by some agreements between governments and then I expected that there would be some more transfers from Czechoslovakia to go Slavia. Given the fact that many interesting things were happening in Czech Republic.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Of course Bruce Trump's visit.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Is the protocol that was signed.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Which is a typical protocol aiming at. I don't know exchange of people, exchange of literature, exchange of students.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
So I was expecting that some of these. We'll start, you know, circulating either in literature or as experts coming to go Slavia to train either labor force or. Architects or urban planners, but actually.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
What happened was the vice versa. And I'm just going to.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Go very briefly to through what I would find in the documentation. So one of the first things and we already saw Bratislava petrzalka competition because of mortgage. Was this international competition? So just. Take a look at the dates and. I remind you of the occurrences of 1968, so for awhile very long time up with Jacobe which is on the other side of Daniel on the border of with Austria was actually never considered as building site. And finally, when that happened a international competition happened.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
In which motions at all one one of the prizes.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And then. This was just prior to split three and then of course 1968 happened, so Czechoslovakia went again into some sort of block.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Eat. However. There were more an more articles on various Yugoslav architectural sites and actually very relevant ones, very prominent, and if you compare it for example to like she took to, should we, which also had which had person writing on basically daily basis for them which was Edward Replica. You could slide your Yugoslav architecture was actually far more featured in Czechoslovak magazine magazines or in Bulgarian magazines for example. Then in French, 'cause it was simply not so relevant.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So you would often see in product in artistic Torah, in in various various magazines you would see. Quite elaborate articles on different.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Objects on different scales happening Yugoslavia.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So there may.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And then. It was interesting that I started started seeing these these buildings that actually looked familiar to me because they reminded me of some buildings that were built in in Belgrade, or partial results or niche. And then I started looking closer and actually saw that the developers were companies from Belgrade.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
For example, Congress.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Or this administrative.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
I think also built by Congress.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
This is what it looks like today users.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Details.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Or there was the significant import of material which was produced in Serbia, for example.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Or in various spots such as Karlovy Vary or you.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Elsie impressioni accommodation or pools or different different facilities that were actually crucial to tourism.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
And this is.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Very interesting because you would see.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
He is crucial investors.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
The companies that actually had access to foreign markets. And. Tourism here.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
It is actually one of the very interesting, very interesting areas becausw after 1968, the period of so-called normalization happened, which basically. The economy of Czechoslovakia basically revolved around this internal market and it was it was declining. It was collapsing because there was simply not enough money to to maintain it. So tourism and especially spot tourism such as color variant Pearsonii, was actually one of the major export import products and it was actually never completely closed down for let's say. Germans, or Arab or whoever from wherever to come and visit these paths. So that our product, which was in charge of these pass, started investing and the problem is for.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Sample this is. One of the nehmer buildings.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
The problem is that you would have the.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
Is accommodation facilities being built well into 80s? And what was very interesting for me is. That it seemed to me that these buildings are not so complex, not so difficult to build, and it seemed to me that stuff of product or possibly stabby or stubborn, industrial, whoever was the developer in Bratislava or Prague or wherever could easily build it. Turns out that was not the case because they would have to enter some kind of arrangement with different suppliers and they could not have done this because they either don't have the money. Or they have no infrastructure which would support they have no building capacities, no workforce, so they in the end had to hire somebody from abroad. There were other companies from Italy from Austria, but not as many construction sites were handled them. Most of them were actually handled by Yugoslavs.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
And it was not just. Not just this kind of health tourism, let's say, come get through the panic was involved in building a lot of industry. For example, glass factory facilities. There were facilities that were within this concern. Bessler of Electronic Industry parent Lee.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
And you would also during the 70s see Jugoslav design like exhibitions or or. The guest appearances by different professionals in Prague or or in other major cities of Czechoslovakia.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Of course, at this point. There was. Double design. Um? There was this particular office in Belgrade that was established that would deal with with the design products basically. And they were actually the ones that design center design center. So they were used as as this kind of channel in between the governments in order to basically. You to to be as this kind of a proxy in order to sell various equipment, products, fashion to the buyers in Czechoslovakia.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Another very interesting thing is that.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
There were many competitions happening and in Belgrade, as usual, as usual, new Belgrade was one of the major major points of thinking and and of the Battle of the profession.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
And The thing is, the first prize went to. Went to team from Bratislava so it was very interesting for me to see that these these design companies had a basically had the knowledge and had some kind of understanding of the problems of the urban areas in Yugoslavia and they knew how to what to propose and how to to deal with the issues that that the citizens might have in these in these areas.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
This is a new thing. When I started the research congre porn app, it would actually not feature these these buildings on their web pages. Now it's different. Apparently they need their reference list, so they dug into their archives and started putting these up on the web page. And.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
What is very interesting here is that although I saw the documentation on DA Momentum Yagna in cash them very often, I did not know because it was simply not mentioned that nap read was the one building it, but that's another story and Bolden Budimir of told me just briefly, that they would often compete as subcontractors. But not to be stated in the list of of the contractors and the developers on in the final feature of the project.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
So this is double mania.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
Still looking very good.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
And this is something. Which I would like to finish the presentation with. And I was very, very proud to find this because. It is similar to some.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
Thing that was happening in Belgrade. So basically, this is Jim's expert computer Aided Design program that was that basically came out of the research of the Institute of Material Testing of Serbia EMS Institute. And this is one of the very interesting experimental projects that were that was done by the team of the Institute very late in the 80s, hoping to find yet another market for for the application of the prefabricated system in the time when it was basically declining. The housing construction was declining and it was not needed.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
So Czechoslovakia actually had. A system which is similar to this and I'm not talking about the you know simple application of the computer in the process of architectural or urban design. This is basically customizing the computer tools and computer equipment that was available to them, so they basically made a new system which they called Benny. So you would have these within the the. The framework of the work within the algorithm you would have, like the outputs that called, then one, then two, then three, and depending on the scale of the project, you would have either urban layouts or buildings or neighborhoods, and this was basically derived from the experiences that the institutes had. So it's like this layered knowledge that was used for. Some for basically. Producing something you and that's why I asked about Polish an, for example, Bulgarians also had something, it's just that it's not an original system, is just the utilization of the already existing ones. And.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
This is pretty much where I'm going to finish. And. I just wanted to say briefly, go back to what the problem is, what the problem was with the topic of the research. To begin with, is that the approach was somewhat colonial. Meaning that I assumed that. The original. Housing systems or the original housing experiments were not simply. That, for example, the Yugoslav companies were not just able to do it by themselves, they had to import it from somewhere. However, turns out that both what is actually the same in Yugoslavian Czechoslovakian project of the housing economy and all the urban research and and institutions revolving around it. What is the same in both cases? Is there neck for experiment? That's why it looks so similar. And that's why they seem to be the ones exporting technologies. But it was basically the broader philosophy and the broader framework. For this being one of the one of the aspects of it, that is basically the. Main set up in which these housing systems were actually built and these. This is basically what is their similarity, so there was no import export per say, but there was this constant exchange of experiences and knowledge. And.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
In case you want to know. I can show you the magazines and literature there.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
I used thank you.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
You opened the continent. A front, it's also kind of my my fault or our fault not able. We were not able to find people that were really working on the exchange between Yugoslavia and eastern countries. Even I don't know there are not so many researchers going on on this topic at the moment, and so I would like to thank you and maybe just a personal question regarding maybe the first rayshon of you started. The research trying to find a direction and this research brought you on the kind of opposite result that you expected or not. So I would like to to ask you if you where this goes now for you. Well, regarding your your your personal research. The thing is. I was not frustrated. I was in a way, I was glad to. So because I mean you pose a question and then you either prove it or disprove it, and that's fine with me. But The thing is, I was I. I was actually not expecting to find this much documentation on on who built and where, and I was not expecting actually because this is somewhat of an urban legend. OK, you know that there are many companies that built abroad. Then you usually hear the stories of. Africa or I don't know. Cuba or America, yeah, but Cuba. One of you know topics that I actually very, very know very well. Or export to China or wherever. But there was this. You know, land in between, which is somewhat of an uncharted territory. And it is actually very very interesting because although it was, you know, Cold War and the Iron Curtain in between all of these countries. There was actually a lot of exchange going on through various channels. We are being one of them and very important in case of Czechoslovakia, becausw on at least these two occasions they were completely isolated, so this was one of their rare channels to communicate and this was actually quite interesting to me to see for me to see how this technology actually circulates and that it's it's not, you know, necessarily or. One way street so. The problem is that it's often presented that way or you get this feeling from the literature that that you. At least I have seen so far. For example, come you decided to export the system that was already in use in France, so he wanted to Soviets. He went to Cubans. He went to Austrians, then Soviets took it and then made their own version. But then they he's managed and it's always something like that's like one way St. It's a trade and it's done, and this is way more clever. And knowing that there is some sort of this meta knowledge. From which you extract and then you have visual or Budimir of actually doing their own thing and their own prototypes while you have in in to Slovakia. Yeah or or Tiger or whoever of these pioneers doing their own their own thing. And it also all sorts of fits in within this broad framework today. I think it's impossible. We have another framework, it's just not aimed at building housing. I have a question regarding not so much about production of architecture, but since you've done so much research on in magazines, I was wondering about production of magazines and how that was kind of circulating like was there or maybe some interesting things that you observed. I think it's just a very interesting topic. How this production also emerged at the same time. Yeah, thanks for that. There's an interesting infographic I just had so many slides that I decided to avoid this one. But for example, there's a colleague in in Bratislava who actually analyzed and made an infographic of what literature was available. Most importantly, the magazines from abroad and what is actually interesting for me because it's it's not. This is not the first time that I go through years and years of magazines. I mean, you see the years that I went through it started with large detectors rudely and then went to other magazines that I had the opportunity of seeing. The thing is it's always for example. When you are in in Yugoslavia or in Czechoslovakia, it's always that you try and get something from where the production is very vast, meaning Scandinavia. Meaning France, West Germany. If possible, America. Um? Well and of course US said but but but a bit less from you know, these countries that are. Pretty similar to you, but you don't think that their experiences might be completely relevant to you, so you don't have all the years of, for example, or architect or software. You don't have all the years of Poland or or Yugoslavia was just. But The thing is. To me it was very interesting how well they were informed in Prague and Bratislava on what was happening with us, although they had no no, you know, person in Yugoslavian dot peacenik. Bucharest wouldn't. Who would be in charge of you know, constantly sending them report. They were very well informed and. They would publish timely. Well, for example, dorms are shipped to Saudi. I don't know different different important as we perceive them. Magazines had the correspondents. However, the number of published articles, or at least photos was so so small. Maybe because the the production was a bit lagging behind so it was not so important to them. You usually see monuments, partisan memorials, but not so much housing on or if you see housing, it's not what we now know that it's you know those that are groundbreaking. It's just some random building so this was actually very interesting phenomena for me to see. How well informed they were. For example, this was the the same thing was happening between Bulgarian Yugoslavia, although it was like you know, the. It seemed that there was no communication between these two countries. However, in Sofia you have very often published articles. Different like essays or interviews. While in in Poland's not much, for example, that is, it is just interesting to see how often they occur.
