Dotted dashed curves are correspond to the gradient descent. This method is equivalent essentially to the trace norm regularization, so it's equivalent to using this regularizer. The trace norm or nuclear norm is a sum of the singular values of a matrix. In fact, you cannot really solve it even for small sizes of the matrix. And you and the convex the best convex relaxation. So this is 1 rationale that under conditions you will get a low dimensional matrix for. So one interpretation is you want to learn a common kernel for all tasks, and this is a more general approach. There has been work that has shown has used this as a in a maximum posteriori context. As a rotation invariant form of group lasso, in the sense that if you minimize. Which is a certain LP norm. So this means you have an LP norm on the singular values of the matrix. In general, you can solve this with the same alternating algorithm. So if you have K groups, you need all these kernels. And this is what makes this problem a nonconvex problem, because you have to take into account all the partitions of tasks into K groups. Not at least local in a local way. So we want to jointly find these functions because we believe we have some prior assumptions that these tasks are related. And this is especially important when we have a few data points, but task. So in this matrix optimization problem. It can be any any function of this form where age is decreasing and decreasing in a matrix sense. And this is an if and only if. So it can give you all these certain LP norms. It can give you all orthogonally invariant norms which are certain there is a certain characterization for them. So another way to write this is in matrix notation. Right, right like this, so it's column of W is in the span of all these inputs, which are the. And you see why this makes the problem a kernel problem. Assain corresponds to the inputs for all for each of the tasks. Intuitively, that input sample for this particular task. Appears everywhere with the same coefficients Alpha as. Vertical blocks of rank one matrices. And I end intuitively this makes sense, why becausw? So some of these of the total sample size. Another reason why we want to do this is what? Good prediction on this new task, especially when we have a few examples from this task. And OK, it calls for all for all of signally invariant norms in a certain family, but it more specifically calls for all certain LP norms. And except the case of the spectral norm where you it calls for one of the solutions of your problem. Multitask learning is is a problem we would like to solve and it appears everywhere. It is in many cases you can enhance performance by exploiting task relatedness. So finally I finally I gave necessary and sufficient conditions for the represented theorems, which is a more general problem in in kernel methods both in single task learning and multi task learning. Which is this for matrix nondecreasing? So if your Omega is of this form. One very famous one is what is called collaborative filtering or recommendation systems. An example is the Netflix competition. This is related to the matrix completion problem, which has been recently studied a lot in in other areas like compressed sensing and. You can see this as a special case of multitask learning. And they have one assumption underlying assumption here is you want to minimize. Also, there are other related problems like multiview problems or multi label problems, domain adaptation or domain transfer. Ask the mildest problems. Solve an SVM Aurora kernel problem in general, but using a common kernel for for all the tasks.