It is positive, unstructured data and membership queries, so it's a fairly traditional protocol. Ann is correct for a large class of context free languages that includes all regular languages. Invite will often be infinite if L is infinite. So we need some finite representation of C. Vitamins here are just the congruence classes of the observed strings. OK, so these basic rules give us at context free grammar in Chomsky normal form. OK, so if you can tell where the Seaview is equal to see of the, then learning is essentially trivial. See of you is just being some finite unstructured set of congruence classes. And there are lots and lots of conference classes, so that means that the two things it means that learning is very slow because you have to require a very large number of these congruence classes and also means it's hard to get it right because you have things that are very similar, so you're likely to make mistakes. The thing to realize is the congruence classes are sets of context. 100% of his papers were good, but you can't save many people, so give me example here. So how do we need to represent the lattice of distributions? Well, what we want to do is if we can learn this lattice structure, we can also define a representation that directly uses this lattice structure. A child learner finds herself in him or herself in, but we can consider it as being a placeholder for a more realistic probabilistic learning paradigm. If we're going to do this, then we need to have quite expressive models. They have gender phenomena, case. And V has features that then the concatenation of you and he is going to have the features in X, right? It's just it's basically just the same as a CKY parsing algorithm, which you can do in cubic time. They include all context free grammars and they can represent non context free languages. They can also compactly represent languages that require exponentially large context free grammars like permutation languages and their equivalent to some classes subclass of range concatenation grammars, which is a fairly powerful formalism introduced by. A few years ago now, assuming we have a finite set of strings K, these are little primitives and we have a set of features which are Contacts and a membership Oracle to answer all the questions. Now, so this means ready that I'm given an Oracle for the language and a choice McCain if we can write down to grandma G of kno left so ger hypothesis then is a function of K&F. It turns out that as K increases, the language monotonically increases. So if F plus includes F, then the language defined by this actually decreases OK. Now the reason for this is that the features really define the conditions under which we predict a feature on the head there, like if then rules. Now, in normal GI, whatever that means. Typically we given a class of representations and we studied the learnability of these representations under various assumptions. So the algorithm is and the algorithm we put in the paper is really just. So the basic idea is that if the language under generates, then you add some more examples to your kernel, and if it over generates then you add some more features. You had some context, so if you're under generate, you go right. So more formally, documents, we take a sequence of strings. So here we have when we go through all these examples in the test set. So if W is in the language but it's not in the current hypothesis, then we're under generalizing. So this means by the two monotonic monotonicity Lammers, right? One is the finite context property, which means we're never going to over generalize, and the other is the finite kernel property, which means there were never going to generalize this. So the finite context property is this. Thing is that this is the basic property which defines what is learnable learnable within this framework. And this says we have a string you in a language has a finite context property. Basically, this is the way we go from a finite set of evidence F of you about the sort of context to an infinite set. And if you compare the substitutable languages, substitute languages are one where any string. And if you compare Adrian's idea of context, separability is saying basically there is one string in here or saying that there is a finite set. So the key point here is really that F needs to be a function of K. As K increases, we need more features and that's that diagonal line that we saw earlier and the key lemma in the proof really that joins everything together says that if F is fiducial then the BFG predicts only correct features. So the scope of the finite context principle. Well, all regular languages have the this finite context principle, since the number of syntactic congruence classes finite, all substitutable languages have the finite context principle. Wrong way round really because in first language acquisition we don't know what the representations are, but we do know that they are learnable. OK, but we do know that that'll be cause the infant child can learn. I think the real problems are computational and not information theoretic, so the real problem is not the absence of negative data or VC dimensions or things like this. And to do this, I think we need to use representations without hidden structure. So what we define a language is being a finite set is a kernel for languages for any set of features F it has. There are context free languages that don't have a finite kernel. So the main result is that the algorithm described identifies and limit the class of languages which satisfy the FCP and the FKP. It uses polynomial update time. Uses positive data plus polynomial calls. As we said that the algorithm. The sort of semi lattice defined by the examples you've seen to produce more abstract rules. Free class into context sensitive languages. Features that are set in context and look at natural language. So we've distributional learning, which normally looks at looking individual congruence classes, can be generalized to model the lattice of context substring occurrences. I mean, it forces a switch to a context sensitive representation that's directly based on the lattice, and one of the one of the consequences, which is you slightly abandoned. It gives rise to efficient algorithms for learning context free and potentially context sensitive languages that have this fairly weak property, which is the finite context property, and this is a linguistically I think, very interesting for. For several reasons. So when we're learning regular languages were interested generating the prefix or suffix prefix suffix relation, so we're interested in the relationship between two strings you envy where they're related. Normally the inference of regular languages using deterministic finite state automotor. From regular languages to context, free languages name just define what context is. Context is just a pair of strings, LR and we can combine a context with a substring here just by wrapping the context around the subject to get this. We want to model this function C want to model for any string U we want to predict the set of contexts of that string included. Now there are two problems with modeling. So the way we want to deal with that is we're going to take some finite set of primitive elements which are going to be strings K such that we know about. So if U as in K then we know what see of you is like.