Which you're calling a common service environment. Ann from this environment being able to get through interfaces to different public clouds and other private clouds, which means you've got an environment in which you can connect. So the main research topics that came out of the expert group, the things where the expert group wanted the Commission to fund activity. Here's the list. Data management, communications and network resource description resource management, multiple tenants, big problem for good public clouds, Federation, especially into operation and portability. It's really time to change. Dynamic re composition of service is incredibly difficult and very important. Big data managing integrity and heterogeneity. Very difficult indeed. We have to do it dynamically and execute time so that we can use. There's a whole lot of cloud problems that I've listed, but actually what clouds do is make us realize that there's a whole lot of interesting problems that need to be tackled. Computer science, so here's the perennial challenges. We need data representative AT to ensure accuracy. We need quality veracity of permanency. We need trust, security and privacy. Again chemist talking about this. So we've got the code design software. So what we have is growing demands. And there's the user expectations. And they won't, not unless we can close this gap. Huge gap and notice it's manageable security. The end user policy of the company policy of the country in which it's located and so on. We have to deal with elasticity, particularly vertical and down. Once you've got interoperability of these frameworks or fabrics, then you have to resolve the differences between them. Data management we bought the problem of managing the whole lifecycle of data. Partitioning and replication where you can really get huge performance. The problem at the moment is the rapid release of unused resource is we're very good at scaling up. Ann programming models has the time now come to move away from Turing and Von Neumann and classical serial programming? Over to Lutes, who's going to do the information on current activities in Europe and the opportunities in particular since normally people who know me amongst others, Kim know that typically we have a different role. One of the key missions of the Commission is actually to foster the European industry, IE not in order to just. So you can participate in in that work in more than just one ways, not just the projects that are there right on these projects are not just there for you having to do one specific work you can directly exploit the results as well. You can either take up the results that other projects have developed and you can interact with the project in order to get more information about it. You can actually take up the results in other formats. And having said all that, you might also have the opinion that that's all need, but I actually don't agree. The main idea of the cloud expert group was in order to identify really hard what comes after the cloud. Basically, what are the current challenges? But it's no secret that clouds are on the rise. They do not make any application fast clouds are not high performance computing. They do not make things immediately available. They are not generally cheap. In those days dominantly IBM and they would solve it for you.