We were created on the 1st of January 2008 and it was a merger of seven existing agencies and we have founded and financed by the regional government of the Rhone AB region and also by the French Ministry of Industry, and our Commission is to contribute to the Sustainable economic development and competitiveness. And so we have been a partner in this checked since the beginning and one of the things which is very important for us within this European project is to create our own regional network. So we have constituted a network for companies, institutional bodies, organization and regional stakeholders and we have now organized several workshops where we try to translate the secrecy approach into something operational. Which did quite a lot of work on sustainability at that time, and because our main idea was that the industrial designers had have an important role to play when designing new products with a better respect of the environment. More about it and based on those facts that this companies were starting to look at their code design and designers was willing to work on it. So since 2004 we did six ecodesign conferences with companies and designer experiences with expert lessons and workshops. We have. And as I will talk to you afterwards, we have developed two group actions for companies integrating design and respect for the environment which is see to see design and Eco Booster. But it was also at the same time to help the companies to work with designer on a real product development while experiencing. Experimenting to see to see philosophy as external resources, we had the help of a peer to to organize this project that this was quite important for us because we didn't have the necessarily expertise to to teach the seat to see approach and we also had the help of five experts in different domains with regards to the questions that the different companies had with this within this group action. All in all, we had nine companies from different industries to participate with the sport, equipment, promotional items, garden products, building equipment and automotive equipment. And in April there was a individual work sessions in all of the companies supported by the Sun to design and thereby pier, and the idea was to finally define and start up the projects in each of the companies and then between April and June there was information exchanges between partners and also suppliers in order to get the information and data collection and materials and toxicity. And then in June we had some time to Matic workshops with experts and I'll show you the themes afterwards. In order for the company also to share their experiences and then the whole action was was followed by a group of researchers who looked at what's happened in the companies and how they work together with the designers and those researchers. Chose at that moment the subjects for their articles. For example, there were questions on materials, lifecycle on product, service approach on perceived value of equity sign project which is also quite important to treat becausw. So we found out that the designers, well, we concluded because it wasn't kind of a big revelation either, but that the designers were able to do a better definition of scenarios and product life cycles. And also that the product promotion with an end of life perspective was easier when it was sold from the beginning and the designers also had a very important reflection on materials and toxicity from the beginning trying to integrate all those different aspects without necessarily an engineering approach and which is very important for the designers. So it was also a collective action for companies and the aim was to help the companies to to. And hate their knowledge on there could design and to integrate environmental objects in product service development and also to think about a new pro speed based on a new business model which is service versus products, which means that you're not necessary in now are buying a new product, but more like a service an when you have used the product you give it back so you just have the service provided by the product. Here we had our resources more internally as we had our PhD student and then we also integrated several experts. And I also just show you quickly the main points of the methodology, which is which has been developed by GAIL Q. Of the environment, environmental approach was to 1st observe the context of the company, then to structure the observed actions in short medium and long term, then to define the strategy strategy and objectives by integrating the actions and then to create alternative solutions within creative workshops, implicating a maximum of people in each company and also to integrate the designers.