In this session, my name is George Olson from the research lab in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Lehigh University, and this paper was authored by myself and my advisor, Professor Jeff Happening. Will give a brief introduction of what we are actually doing in this paper and some related work in the literature and also after that we formally present or algorithms and some evaluation results, and we conclude with future work. And this is used to further reduce the non Co referent pairs. But here we need to be careful in the sense that we do not want this second level similarity measure to filter out too many coreference pairs there so that. We tokenize, we try to check the percentage of the shared highly similar similar tokens. So we tokenize the other values and compute similarity between every pair, pocus from 2 strings. And final one is the one we actually used in this. Now we come to this evaluation section, so here are some metrics that are frequently used for evaluating, blocking or candidate selection systems. You slept a a set of pairs, except for instance pairs, which we call that instance set. Sorry kinda sad and we simply say how many true matches are covered in this. And here are the results for the three largest data set which took. We have we had a similar observation here where diagram typically has the best performance and for the last one this is a synthetic sensor status that where our systems actually pretty bad and we're still exploring the actual reason for this, just to note. For some of systems, we simply compute the number of selected pairs. So when we see the title, the question will ask is actually what is distinguished generation and in this paper the concept means we try to find the instances to actually represent the same real world entity. The people names in free tax actually refer to the same railroad entity, or they try to find. And here's just conclusion and future work. For example, we could apply this technique to larger datasets, or we could apply other system apply or other in different systems to select players. Develop an algorithm or find out approach where we could very efficiently filter out those instance pairs that are not likely to be Co referent. One possibility here is I mean how to do this filtering. But we want to select the triples. Would like to do this. After applying our filter children mechanism, we want the entire entity Coreference process scale very well and also we want the F1 score always say. Here is the system framework, so there are several components. A set of RDF properties that we actually who's our providers will actually be used for Earth to do this filtering, and in this paper we only care about data type properties because we want to use the similarity. So for example, given some instances we could say for them for some person instances we could simply say let's use their given name or the full name as the value 2. Also coverage the coverage is just saying. So we want to compare some similarity between the obvious values of the learner properties therefore. The problem is that a single property may not work well. For first to do this kind of selection, so for example. And then we peak.