So basically statistics about the adoption of ceiling data best practices in different domains. I'm compliant with the set of linked data practices for people who are not that deep into link data. We want to ease the discovery of data in the integration of data by data providers following to a set of best practices. If you look at the degree distributions, how much links are set? This also restricts the crawl ability of the cloud. So the largest strongly connected components that we find consists of 377 datasets. Adoption of the vocabulary best practices. So what we see concerning the adoption of widely used vocabularies we see rather strong adoption of the well known vocabularies like 4th DC terms and VGM. Also find fair adoption nevertheless. Concerning the dereference ability of vocabulary terms, we see that 30% of the terms are dereferenceable, so this practice is partly followed for large. Now we found 21% of the vocabularies. And we found out that 37% of the datasets provide explicit provenance information, mostly using Dublin Core vocabulary. Using this word information, we were able to find dumpson sparkle endpoints for about 10% of the datasets rather low numbers doesn't mean that there are. So conclusion concerning this part. It's not. The meter information according to the standards situation is better in the government and in the library's domain. Yes, this was the best practices we published our Trouble Link data Cloud. Afterwards we ask people to point us at datasets that we did miss. So just expect you to mark up the data in your HTML pages, pages and their strong application pool by Google, Microsoft and Yahoo. Interestingly, if you look at the topics of the data, there's hardly any over link with the topics of linked data, so the schema or data it's about product is about Postal addresses about loesche local businesses. There's a hiring organization, but more specific properties like skills, skills are hardly used. Wider range of more specific topics schema org very focused on the search engines. Link data rather complex data structures schema org. We have over any kind of micro data. Can you say anything about the quality of the links in the link data? Therefore it's a replication paper update the report as well as the diagram to 2014. I will quickly talk about the mythology mythology we used and then present the results concerning the adoption in the different areas. The conclusions will be a bit in relation to schema org. We did a crawl of selling data cloud so we crawled in April 2014 starting with 560,000 seats or together we crawled not the whole cloud. Which gave us 1014 link datasets that our crawler was able to discover side note the crawler discovered 77 datasets that exist that are linked data, but that prevent crawling via robots TXT. There are lots of new datasets that fall in the category social networking that are basically about people and their social ties and. User generated content and a large number of datasets in the category. It depends on if you consider this new category, social networking or not. In our sample, we sadly found that only 56% of the datasets said any RDF links to any other datasets. 44% of the datasets our eyes are only target of links or they are isolated.