Like to focus in this talk on a specific phenomenon which we called lexicographers lacuna's. Well, let me say something about Lacuna's and their types and how did we identify lacunas? The first question, of course, is, is the dictionary form in the corpus at all? So that we can find the dictionary form in the corpus and we can calculate calculate that by the equation we've seen earlier. They have to, lexicographers have to decide whether they want to include non frequent lemma in their dictionary. In most cases, the infinitive which is the dictionary form, was actually found in a larger corpus. And aside from the the idioms, small group of infrequent iteratives. And those we guess would be found in a yet bigger yet larger corpus. We can find even semantic incompatibility with singular, like in Word, countless Miss Chittani. So our recommendation for the B1 and B2, we suggest that the headward should be as close as possible to the dictionary form. In a corpus in plural. The Headward again should be as close as possible to the dictionary form, so in this case of Floralia tandem, nominative plural, and for C we should reconstruct and. Or maybe if you want to fixed collocation as we have seen, especially with the check nouns, then do not reconstruct the dictionary form and use multi word. And keep the headward as close as possible to the standard dictionary form. If the lacuna is not caused by any of the previous cases, but only by a lack of data, as was the case with the check verbs. Thank you, that's that's really comforting that we arrived at the same conclusion under independently. The issue is at least our knowledge. So solution to the question, should the lexicographer reconstruct the unattested word form and that's that means that he or she pays attention to his or her intuition? 100 million representative corpus of written check of contemporary written check in which we identified 400 nouns. 400 verbs and 1000 objectives which are candidates for lacunas. How? Of data, so to wrap it up. Two types of lacuna systemic where there is actually a reason for not adjusting the dictionary form, such as I've done, are which means married woman which cannot be found in masculine. As I show you in a minute. But to be on the safe side, we did not go for the first 4 expected frequency of 1, but we've calculated the binomial confidence interval. So we've we've started with the value 3.8 and from this formula we can also calculate what is the minimum frequency of a lemma.