Anne, this paper also about OSR that's rejection threshold estimation, but I will know language model in an OCR task. To define a good threshold that is applied to the cost of the transformation from the OCR to the final solution, I mean, as as you know. On which model? Actually has to correct the output from the OCR to get one to get a string compatible with the language model. Output with the language model. The accepted distinction are only one or 2%. To obtain some parameters of the histograms of the parsing cost of positive samples. Of a number of language models and with that try to build a regression model to obtain the real test samples of the same language models as the dependent variable. I mean as as the output as a target output OK. The 6600 thousand first names in the last issues over Spain's in the surnames with probabilities, I offered the frequencies in the census so they are they are samples with probabilities with frequencies. And also the. Then the parameters we extracted from the contributions where mean, median variance, coefficient of variation, different percentages and also being frequencies. So obviously the target output is the error rate for each cost value, so we trained several relation models, support vector machines for regression analysis functions, animal perception and the results were similar, so we're showing the results of the last of the modular receptor. In for example, in the case of municipalities in Spain. In all cases, in practice one of them is that it was all tables, is the other one is a good starting point. Result for such a small experiment anyway, so obviously as a future where our future we plan to use a larger set of language models and and obtain hopefully more accurate results to know to know if they can be really used in one way or another, OK? So if we if we see here if we take a look at four different language models, in this case for Spanish names. And the local area municipalities are only 35 municipalities from a small area of Spain. And finally they, the Spanish municipalities are like there. I mean four different transformation costs. OK, so the error rate, not the number of strings as before, but the error rate. Change of the language model. So what we're going to do is to compute the histogram of the transformation costs. I mean taking into account the error model taking into account the probabilities of the perplexity of grammar and everything you don't have a one probability of even if the string belongs to the language. So this is these are the parsing cost of the strings that belong to the language.