And what the whole mobile and cloud and ubiquitous computing shifts that we've seen over the last few years really mean for today's middleware offerings? I can certainly talk about what we're doing in the cloud business unit, which is more infrastructure. Parkinson's law, hopefully everybody knows what Parkinson's lower is, but you know we are seeing a variation of Parkinson's law that you know work expands to fill the power available so you know if you look back at the ZX Spectrum or the you know, the BBC Model B when they came out. Applications that we're seeing today are already increasing in complexity with doing a lot of online purchases. But unfortunately it is a reality. But as the types of application complexity increases, sort of the requirements that developers developers need to satisfy things like security and identity, fault tolerance, high performance, low latency messaging for instance as well. There are lots of popular JVM based languages now many new languages that come out either come out first on the JVM or ported rather rapidly to the JVM. But there are lots and lots of languages running on the JVM today. So what does this all mean for for cloud, and so specifically for platform as a service? It becomes even more important. They have good things and bad things, but middleware should not be defined by particular implementation. Java maybe move from COBOL as well, but from Corbett to Java the world kind of stopped for a bit. Think that we need to build on existing middleware for both mobile and for cloud and we should really start talking about. You know these personal clouds or ubiquitous computing. There are more processors outside of an Amazon EC2 distribution. But there are many, many issues that we still need to resolve. E 6 represents a lot of work. Lots of good things in it. We need to get away from that J2J2E is in the past Java EE when we move from from to E5 and suddenly the six is significantly different. There is nothing in the E spec that requires you to implement a bloated middleware stack. So if you look at AS 7, which is our E 6 implementation or EA P6. 30 years ago 16 K was considered a lot of memory. Why would we ever need more? Multi tenancy is also a requirement for your mobile device. Unfortunately, Java middleware stacks would not typically developed with multi tenancy in mind. Typical thing you do today is you run one app per JVM or one set of related apps per JVM. The JVM itself is actually part of. Years ago, the JVM needs to change. We need to be able to have during two ways of addressing multitenancy. Large scale data storage are relational databases. They're really good generalists. To remove the single point of failure, but they were not designed for large scale data. Many no SQL implementations with the exception of infinispan ignore transactions for instance, and they cite the cap theorem. The cap theorem is cited as an excuse rather than a reason an. I think the next decade will be defined by by mobile and ubiquitous computing. Hopefully I've shown you that in the applications that we're developing now are significantly more advanced than just Angry Birds. Do with this though, which is in a nutshell, not invented Here syndrome, and it's a speech that Richard Hamming gave in 1968 when he accepted the Turing Award. Today well, you know 512 Meg of memory is standard on smartphones, if not more. You can now get 512 gig USB memory sticks. Many of the Android devices that you can buy over the last year have Quad core processors in it. And just to kind of drive home again, that times have changed significantly. Down there is a 16 bit microcontroller from 2007, so that's five years ago, so you can only imagine what its equivalent will look like today. Well, if we look back at where we were 12 years ago, so Java in 2000. We had J2SE 1.3 we were in between J2E as it was called back then 1213. Your typical laptop configuration. I remember when I got my first one of these from HP 20 gig it was double what I'd had a year or so previously and I thought, well, I'm never going to fill that up. 32 bit run of version of Windows 'cause we called Windows CE E and it ran HP's own JVM back then called Chai which was a 1.2. Your typical laptop configuration, Quad Core 2.2 if not beyond now. They're coming down in price significantly. Linux, you got variation of Java running on Android. Personal clouds may well become the norm and a personal cloud is not just the cloud of your servers, your laptops, or your Amazon EC2 instances. OK so? They will grind to a halt and it takes a lot longer to upgrade network infrastructure than it does to upgrade the back end services so thin clients work today because not everybody is using the network, so shipping data backwards and forwards to Amazon doesn't cause the network to get saturated.