So this can be seen sort of as a control problem if we if we go back to if I remind you of the Pontryagin minimum principle. The connection between control and quantum mechanics, first based on the on the work of Francesco Guerra here in the audience, but then also digging down to the work of Ed Nelson etc. If quantum mechanics is stochastic, optimal control made easy, you know if you could do could reverse the arrow somehow. So is the idea to express the control problem as an inference problem and try to use ideas from statistical physics to make that inference computation tractable? Trying to make something linear out of nonlinear problems, and this is using the. Link between the control theory and the statistical physics. So in Q is the distribution over the trajectories under that uncontrolled dynamics? You don't know the control you sample this, you discount the the trajectories with this with this term and you get the optimal cost to go, and in this way you also get the control. This is the distribution that this Psy is the partition sum of right? We clearly find here an interpretation as a free energy where J is the free energy, the cost to go is a free energy where Lambda plays the role of the temperature. The HB equation is linear. It has this kind of funny Schrodinger local like form, but of course This site is a real valued function, is not complex. The solution is given by final cuts formula. There's a posterior distribution and the optimal control is expectation value of that under that distribution. So when the future is uncertain, your deley your decisions. Using this formula for the optimal control, this formula they said that the optimal control is the expectation failure under the posterior of these first noise direction. That to the idea of motor babbling. There's no hardwired plan of how to control, so the idea that the way infants seem to learn control is just to do random things and see what happens, and so you can also do this in this control setting where you say OK. Now, let's say I have this deterministic. And now we want to compute the marginal distribution for each intermediate time of the most likely trajectories from A to B for entering any intermediate time. And of course the probability to be at state Y at an intermediate time T given that at time a I was a state X and at time BI was in state. In this paper he imagined clouds of particles and they have distribution Essex at the time A and then move according to the Markov process and we discretize the the initial state and the final state, and we denote by gamma. KL is the number of particles that leave cell Delta XK and they arrive itself Delta ZL and so the probability of an individual particle trajectory is then. So let's say that we have a state space and we have we define something. Maybe first order Markov process and we have some costs and are the probability is to find a posterior distribution P that minimizes akl in the sense that so that we want a distribution that is somehow close to the. We got from this final cuts formula where we have an integral over trajectories. Dizzy is nothing else than the normalizer of this distribution is a distribution of trajectory. You can show that the optimal control is given by the parameter benyus eigen pair of this of this system, basically the largest Eigen eigen value, the optimal cost average cost is becomes the log of the largest eigenvalue which gives the minimal cost and the cost to go is the log of the eigen eigenvector and the optimal Markov process is given by the uncontrolled Markov process. One more thing, so another funny thing is that in the case that the uncontrolled dynamics satisfy detailed balance, which means that detailed balance means that. The first part is is trying to give this this quantum mechanical link with control theory and sort of explain to you where I think it fails and I'm not. As far as I understand, quantum mechanics does not seem to correspond to a useful class of control poles, but this is for me. I have looked at another class of control problems that links inference to statistical physics and to the machine learning methodology. So my question is, does there exist a class of partial observed control problems that can be linearized in the sense that that I was looking for in the quantum mechanical case, but that I've failed to find and this is something that is still very much on? There's another body of work which is related to the Jasinski equation, and it relates to free energy difference of two states to the path and roll over the work. It's some expression of this. Now these expressions they look very similar because if you interpret the free energy as the free energy difference is the cost to go, you get basically also integral over path. Dender is some people talking about quantum mechanics and control. There will be some people looking at the relation between control and inference. And the third part is a little is my understanding of the link between control theory and large deviations using an old paper of Schrodinger from 1919 thirty two. I have to apologize in the sense that in a bit because I wanted to give an overview, so as a necessity the talk will be somewhat superficial, but that's how it.