It will never come again and we need to predict this sequence at each time. Step XD is revealed to us. Prediction yhat tea is made by the algorithm. Then regret with respect to a class F of functions is just. So the puzzle here in online learning is that we can't even define this data dependent subsets. And with for awhile we thought that we need to build these covers in a manner that she'll have shorts had in the SOA algorithm, but that somehow never, never worked. On the positive side, the online learning protocol is inherently improper, so we this point is on the positive side, because we never require the yhat T to be consistent with any function in the class. Here is the handwaving argument, regret against any single F is well at time. I assume that there is some growth of sequential entropy, which is like Alpha to the minus P. Just to give you an idea, P = 2, zero is the easy case. Be greater than two is crazy classes, so this is what we get for the greater than two. We get the minus 2 / 2 + P rate. So basically we can recover with a single algorithm, which I'll show you in a second. So if you remarks for greater than two curvature of the loss does not help, which is interesting in that transition picual to two. What's interesting is online tobach implies a method with correct rates for statistical learning. If you can come up with a function such that it's lower bounded by the comparator and has this property. You can have an algorithm so as long as this is a convex in the YT you have, you have a black box algorithm. So further directions we have extension to other losses. Open questions new online regression algorithms for interesting classes completely open. Now what is known for this problem? And then 98 AM 2000 Vodka considered a bounded subset of dimensional space around the same time Asurion Warmath had another paper of that form. More recently, there has been work by Sebastian version of its on sparse problems where the function is a linear function, but the vector is sparse and. Understand this minimax object and the second claim is that there is a Canonical learning algorithm for any F for in class F. Trees that re labeled by instances of the X space and you go left or right depending on the. What's important is that this is a path of plus or minus ones. The following notion that was introduced in the paper with the context in which the body this is the notion of a covering number, which is the right notion in some sense for these sequential problems for online learning, a set V of real value trees is an Alpha cover of a function class on a tree. The best smallest cover is denoted by N 2 and this is L2 cents. So, uh, another notion that we introduced before is rather more complex, sequential Rademacher complexity, and this is again in some sense the right generalization of the usual Rademacher complexity. So this is the right notion for learning with absolute loss. Also it leads to Martindale extensions of uniform laws of large numbers, fat shattering dimension, scale sensitive dimensions and so forth. So just to kind of a hit, a few hints of how this can be, what we had at our disposal in statistical learning. Then empirical process story is not enough for the problem.