In this work, I will assume the data that we get and follows a Gaussian Markov random field. The nonzero patterns of Omega. So here is some useful property of Gaussian that we're going to use. First of all, the partial correlation, the partial correlation, which is the correlation of XI an extra given all the other variables is a constant times the Omega edgy, which again is the fact that Omega-3 reflects the structure of the Gaussian Markov random field. So now there are many L1 type of method solving this problem and probably the simplest one is the neighborhood selection method by myself and Bowman, which simply which simply make use of the autoregression poverty. This method is very computationally efficient, and that's consistency properties in the high dimensional setting. Another treatment is that we can treat their city the L1 as a Laplacian prior distribution. So, however, there are one method is actually not very good for schooling scale free networks. What the eye is, the degree of the ice node. But it turns out that we can solve this problem by using a sequence of standard L1 regularization problem in which the coefficient of the L1. It's a generalization of EM algorithm. It's at each step it approximate the objective function using outbound that is tangent to the current point of your project project. For example in June at work it's the number of genes is much larger than the number of data. Como L1 regularization with Lambda equal to 2A over epsilon, this can be seen from the formula or or the order. And finally, we know that there are many similar methods that also used used this related procedure in some other places. Also earlier we have this adaptive lasso method which user predefined. Although this is only a 2 pass method and also distributed method is also used in the compressive sensing problem where they use it to encourage sparsity and get more accurate results. So from the for the very variable selection problems we have this group lasso, which encourage the structure inside each subgroup to be consistent. Alarm regularization and usually we take the mix long 2B2B2BL2 one which is similar to group LASSO and L Infinity one. The first experiment is about is using some simulated skillful network that is generated by the BA model and we generate the partial correlation inverse conference metric using some uniform. Using some uniform partial correlation an then we add the regularization coefficient Alpha so that we can get a regularization path. The dashed lines is the regular graph graphical lasso and the solid line is our method with Paolo Regularization. Same but using the joint sparse regression score function. Actually plot the percentage of edges that are connected to the hops and the solid lines are all our methods, and dashed lines are L1 regularised methods. We definitely want to further verify our method in some real biological system. We can look at the hops that we predicted and go to biology to use some experiments to check it. Here D is the degree of the nodes, which is the number of edges that it connects to, and one property of power law distribution is that the log log plot is a straight line, so this is a very good way to test whether distribution is really a power law. We know that some some. It's a method to generate random scale free networks using this preferential attachment mechanism. Tasting notes according to a probability that is proportional to the current degree of the existing nodes. To the central node of the existing network and this mechanism.