So I'm going to start with the first lecture talking about very easy problems in the sense that they are smooth, finite and convex. How hard is this problem? So if you truly have a black box dance with problem, you stochastic subgradient durations will be 10 times faster. Whatever algorithm you give me, I just add one extra decimal place to make sure your algorithm never actually finds it. So to even talk about solving optimization problems, you need to start making some sort of assumptions. Usually these come in in the form of Lipschitz continuous assumptions, so either assume that your function or radiant, or your Hessian or something doesn't change too quickly. Hi, a lot better than you would expect, so we have a linear convergence rate. We've heard all week about how you can use these big datasets. You can fit these big models. So part of this, so a common framework we think about is empirical risk minimization. You might have some inputs, AI and outputs BI, or possibly just inputs loss, L, and then you often have a regularizer too, so the regularizer has not been talked about as much in the lectures, but it's often there so we have N observations and we're just going to talk about finding the optimal parameters X star, and we're really talking about this in the mathematical sense. It just means that the function is curved upwards in every direction at every point, but this is usually the easiest way to show that a function is convex. Everything from L2 regularizer, least squares, conditional random fields and a lot of the deep neural network models will also fit in this framework. So that's sort of cause renewed interest in gradient methods, so grading methods have been used in the deep learning literature like forever. But it's only recently that in convex optimization people realized that we really consider gradient methods there too. Yeah, so you often have it for some you, but we are worried about them. You greater than zero case here. Well, optimization is the core of a lot of machine learning models. And you can't really solve huge problems with traditional methods, so we've seen. A bit nicer than the sublinear convergence rate. Usually your derivative code is wrong the first time you try it, you should actually check your derivative code. If you have a really big complicated model that's very high dimensional and you're worried something weird is happening. OK, so it's gradient method in optimal 1st order method. So the gradient method has this 1 / T rate for convex functions, and Nesterov's method gets you to 1 / T ^2. You can also do a lot with convex models, so there's a lot of models in machine learning that are convex and a lot of the empirically effective non convex methods are based on methods with good properties. So Nesterov's accelerated gradient method looks like this. It looks almost exactly like momentum or what's called the heavy ball method, an conjugate gradient. And I'll talk next time about things where you actually try and put the 3rd order term here, and that those are actually a little bit more elegant an I wish they would have been invented before Newton's method, 'cause the sort of the classical development of Newton's method is very ugly and lead to things like line search and trust regions and stuff. So our gradient method looks like that or we have some point or minimum is here.