To understand the statistics of power laws. At the at the energy distribution of gamma Rays. You can count the number of words in your book. In details, again of the wealth distribution in almost all countries. Yeah, literally thousands of examples of where you find power loss or approximate power loss in networks. Many variations of random walks are power laws. Um? It's not that there is 100 ways of generating power laws, it's a handful of ways. The first time where people understood where Powell's come from is from statistical mechanics. If we have multiplicative processes. We get power loss. It's hard to control them compared to. In statistical physics, powerloss arise at. Phase transition at a critical point. That if your computer correlation function between the spins of these atoms. At this point, you get power laws in these. The material. And if you add them up. The sum of these random numbers. OK. What happens if you multiply random numbers exactly? To exact power loss. Power laws arise through preferential process is preferential processes are processes. Also, classical statistics is extreme value statistics or record statistics. A history of path dependent process means that the future depends on the history of all the past events. Where? Lock has shown you the city size distribution, so there's very few huge cities big cities. The probability of visiting state number I is equal to 1 / I this is exactly tips law. This law that I've shown you this way of producing a power law is extremely robust. This process is a diffusion process on a directed acyclic graph. Things start happening if we allowed to introduce cycles. No matter what the network topology is, no matter what the link weights are, you always gets if slow exactly zips law, meaning Alpha being one. What is a good search? That you don't have to look at every square centimeter of this room to check where this thing is. But if I if a good search is if I open the door. Also, we think sequences of human behavior. So I think that's a theory for it. Processes are an example for history dependent processes. This is the measurement of exponent of inferring what's the intrinsic noise levels of processes.