The circular flow of information that takes place between the Organism in its environment in the course of a sensory guided. I'm going to somehow dive into this acting, sensing acting loop and especially the role of information, but again, not not my laying on you. I'm looking for the typical behavior of such of such a cycle in a stationary stochastic environment such that I can really talk about what I call them. I will call later on the metabolic information processing, so this was really a very nice hint. And of course, the basic problem of optimal control formulated in this in this language of of of Markov decision processes or partially observed Markov decision process is exactly the same mathematics that just discretizing time. They do this policy iteration algorithm. And it's actually very simple if you put everything in cost, everything in terms of graphical model. Let's say this is the mind or the mental image of the Organism, and essentially the perception action cycle is now accustomed to this infinite dynamic Bayesian network or graphical model, where these are the observations, the noise observation. How is the memory change the function of the stations and the policy, the policy channel or the actions channel and observation channel? This is enough to already see the full general structure here, so again these are. I want to interpret this information in terms of quantities, which I understand in terms of the cycle, so I'm going to call this information games. Exploit the predictability of the environment for the benefits. So this feedback is actually quite tricky. There's some simple, I call it first law, with all due respect and modesty, but it's not of course first low, but it's reminding me of the first law. Thermodynamics in the sense that if I just average this equation Now, this should be equal to this in equilibrium and I get a simple, simple and somehow somehow surprising connection between the average reward rate. They play exactly the same role, but one has something which I want to minimize in general, in order to ask for typicality and the other one is constrained by competition with others with my fitness. And you can see that not only you get an algorithm for the best policy, you also get another term here, which is the KL divergent between your troop dynamics and this optimal Gibbs dynamics. Given the dynamics and get the solution, the optimal policy is exponential in the free energy as it should be. Here is a way of optimizing the policy. And I mean really see what they expect to see. I don't believe that the brain solve intractable problems. The simple principles that lead to tractable algorithms.