Its goal is to create a social network for people who want to create and use call content on the Internet, and I'm going to be particularly thinking about the ethical issues here, which seems appropriate for this workshop. So first of all, this talk of giving now is going to be about background. What happened is that four years later they announced they were closing down and the people in the free tier were given 12 days to save their data. I think I can't run with exact figure. An online community like Wikispaces has a very substantial market value. Wikispaces had 10s of millions of members. It could have been more. The promises that Wikispaces made could not be enforced in any way. That was what had happened. You can't just talk the talk. Goodreads is a large reviewing site which had been active on pretty much from the start. They made similar promises about freedom and autonomy and respect for the content creators they got bought by Amazon in 2013. Many of the content creators got together, and we actually published a book. About our counter program and we sort of thought them to a standstill after a very painful and traumatic process. For people who do knitting, crochet, yarn, spinning, things like that. It was founded in 2007 by a couple. She says it connects people people geographically close but don't know each other, but they have common interest in knitting. One of the very positive things about the site is that people upload pictures of projects they've made using patterns and you can see the patterns look like in real people, not in professional models. The Ravelry users are extremely positive about the site. You feel that consistency and openness on the part of the founders is one of the things that made Ravelry such a successful site. Perhaps I had something to do with the fact that is created by family rather than a business organization. In 2014 most recent year we got figures that they received more visits than Amazon. Then we care for the beauty of words. So this is an ethics workshop. General pointer if the collector project achieves its goals, we're going to have a user community of at least hundreds of people spending a substantial amount of time over a period of several years. They investing a lot of resources in keeping the free version, running their independent board, overseeing their development, and they have a foundation philosophy actually seemed to follow, and their foundation philosophy I think is interesting and short enough. Software should be licensed and the new public license should be freely available to anyone to use for any purpose without permission. Modifications freely. Distributable at no cost without permission for its creators should provide a framework for translation, like it globally. To work in an ethical way, you should try and use open source philosophy whenever you can, if possible all the time. You should give the content creators for exclusive rights to the content, not not non exclusive rights with the normal model. I'm going to talk about Wikispaces started up in 2005 and it's in many ways quite similar to what we'd like collector to be. Make connections grounded in simplicity is grounded in listening to the users, and this worked very well. We define success in Ed Tech is building a sustainable company that improves student outcomes, empowers teachers and increases the reach and efficiency of educational institutions. And they elaborate on that here, and they tell you why, why it's so important when an established Edtech company fails is a big deal. The impact on students, teachers, and administrators is far higher than for a similar service outside education. It in technologies, what roles already understaffed need to juggle the emergency alongside their existing responsibilities. And they say that when this means that when Ed tech companies closes doors, companies are customers left bearing a heavy burden. So if you look at a later time Lina Wikispaces 2014 wiki spaces was acquired by TSL. Under these circumstances, they are thrilled to announce their being acquired at ESL Education. Nothing will change except that they are backed by this gigantic organization and its huge resources and they will be able to build, build more ambitious, more revolutionary, and more delightful product for you quicker than before. They say that some of you may be sceptical may this may affect things a bad way to those concerned. All we can say is watch what happens.