[0.0s - 29.0s]
Appreciate it. This first talk is work by Kathy cured myself. I tried to persuade Kathy to come and present it to supposedly her work, but she hates talking in front of groups of people she doesn't know so presented for her. So let's see where's my controller here.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
OK, so let me just give some background. So this is the first three link talks. Background is the collector project. This project that we've been doing it. Geneva University started in April of this year is going to continue until the end of 2021. Its goal is to create a social network for people who want to create and use call content on the Internet, and I'm going to be particularly thinking about the ethical issues here, which seems appropriate for this workshop. And alright, so we have three talk. So first of all, this talk of giving now is going to be about background. Looking at previous examples of online communities that might be similar to the one that we are trying to create. Second op Nicholas is going to talk about what we've achieved so far. Give you a snapshot of where we are six months into the project and in the third talk I'm going to forward looking talk about. What our current experience, what the experience of previous communities might tell us about how we should proceed and. Further develop collector.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So all right? Why discuss ethics? So this is an ethics workshop. I think Karen is the first solution, primarily. Thanks for making sure that we're thinking about ethics here. So. General pointer if the collector project achieves its goals, we're going to have a user community of at least hundreds of people spending a substantial amount of time over a period of several years. And I'm. That means that the project will have a nontrivial impact on many people's lives, so it just seems to be a pretty straightforward consequence with that that there are ethical issues here that we should be thinking carefully about what in what way are we affecting these peoples lives? Can we try and affect their lives in a good way rather than a bad one?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So in this particular this first talk, I'm going to give three paradigm examples which Kathy selected out of a considerably larger number that she's got researched on the Internet. The three examples look. I'll look at our wikispaces, Ravelry, an WordPress. And then I'm going to draw some tentative conclusions at the end.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So Wikispaces is the 1st. I'm going to talk about Wikispaces started up in 2005 and it's in many ways quite similar to what we'd like collector to be. I mean, it's an earlier point in time. The technology is less advanced, but its goals are in many ways quite similar, so they started up and they said that they would revolutionize teachers lives. They would. Give them Internet tools to share and. Make connections grounded in simplicity is grounded in listening to the users, and this worked very well. The WIKISPACES was extremely successful and in 2008 they started a program where they offered services free to hundreds of thousands of teachers. On the belief that if they created a large group of users who use the free product, that would create business for them in the paid version. And 2012 there was TSLEJ posts which was extremely positive at Wikispaces. Named several big organizations that were using Wikispaces very successfully. They said that there were about 7 million users. And.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
At about the same time Wiki space. Wikispaces gave this. Statement of their goals in trying to set up this organization, and I think that there are definition of success, the definition what they're trying to do is really interesting to look at, and one that we could do well to study here. So they define success and I'll read out what they say here because I think that the actual words they use are quite significant. We define success in Ed Tech is building a sustainable company that improves student outcomes, empowers teachers and increases the reach and efficiency of educational institutions. And this is a personal definition. They they go on and they go. They stress why they've put sustainability at the heart of their mission statement. This is sustainability is the key to everything.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And they elaborate on that here, and they tell you why, why it's so important when an established Edtech company fails is a big deal. The impact on students, teachers, and administrators is far higher than for a similar service outside education. Money for replacement is tide up in an annual budgeting process. It in technologies, what roles already understaffed need to juggle the emergency alongside their existing responsibilities. Teachers and administrators simply don't have the extra hours through school year for technology training students. The disorder with new materials. A new product alert and I think this is really well put time. They've they've put their finger on an absolutely central thing here about building online educational communities.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And they they go on in the underlying it even more. And they say that when this means that when Ed tech companies closes doors, companies are customers left bearing a heavy burden. And they go so far as to say that they believe Ed Tech startups have a higher duty, even moral duty. Their students, teachers, administrators. And yeah, but they're really underlining this concept of sustainability and the fact that you have a responsibility to your users. And I think this is admirable state Admiral principles which we really want to well to look at.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So if you look at a later time Lina Wikispaces 2014 wiki spaces was acquired by TSL. For assumptive. Kathy was not able to find. When researching on the Internet, but. I would assume it was a fairly substantial amount of money. And they give the usual kind of announcements. Under these circumstances, they are thrilled to announce their being acquired at ESL Education. There are outstanding people. Nothing will change except that they are backed by this gigantic organization and its huge resources and they will be able to build, build more ambitious, more revolutionary, and more delightful product for you quicker than before. And for people who.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
We're doubting their sincerity, 'cause they're always doubting Thomases who wander. They say that some of you may be sceptical may this may affect things a bad way to those concerned. All we can say is watch what happens. And.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
What happened is that four years later they announced they were closing down and the people in the free tier were given 12 days to save their data. The people who have been paying got a little longer that they got about two months. I think I can't run with exact figure. And they give this piteous statement or as a tough business decision. And it wasn't financially viable. And so on and so forth.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Well, that's a very sad story. I think you'll agree. Here are some thoughts that this story inspired us. An online community like Wikispaces has a very substantial market value. You often see the figure of at least $10 per member. Wikispaces had 10s of millions of members. Who is probably worth over well over 100 million dollars. I would imagine that they got acquired for something of that order of magnitude. It could have been more. Wikispaces founders owned the company. So they had the right to sell it. The people who contributed the content that made the company so valuable had no rights. They had no way of blocking that sale. They just have to go along with it. The reason that those people are joined. Wikispaces, the 1st place was that they'd be attracted by all these promises about how they valued sustainability. They valued freedom. They valued autonomy, they thought, was a wonderful place to hang out. They contributed their knowledge and their work to build up the community. And they made it very valuable. But um. The promises that Wikispaces made could not be enforced in any way. The content creators who made the companies so valuable had no influence over the process whatsoever. So when the company was sold, when it later closed down, there now is maintaining the network. Either all they could do. When the priorities changed was gone, except that that that was the. That was what had happened. They were left with. They were left this terrible outcome and the bottom line here. This disastrous outcome for the content creators who made the company so valuable. Anne. It's just not enough to make these extravagant promises. You can't just talk the talk. You gotta walk the walk as well. So what could we learn from?

[348.0s - 377.0s]
From that story, and unfortunately I'm afraid the wikispaces is very far from being the only Internet community at the suffered a similar fate. This is another community I've been heavily involved and not as bad as wikispaces. Goodreads is a large reviewing site which had been active on pretty much from the start. They made similar promises about freedom and autonomy and respect for the content creators they got bought by Amazon in 2013. One of the promises they made very visible was no censorship, and as soon as Amazon came in, a censorship policy was instigated, they started censoring posts right left in this case, we did actually Mount a determined counterattack. Many of the content creators got together, and we actually published a book. About our counter program and we sort of thought them to a standstill after a very painful and traumatic process. There was never any acknowledgement of fault. They did more or less stop censoring posts. Or at least they scaled it back enough that we can say it was a stalemate. But this was not a pleasant experience.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So let's look at the second example. Third example here, Ravelry Dot Ravelry is a site that Kathy is very active in its site. For people who do knitting, crochet, yarn, spinning, things like that. It may sound very different from call, but they're actually quite a lot of commonality's you have people who are creating content, which is patterns your people have downloaded using the content they're creating, getting the patterns, and they're doing knitting and crocheting and so on. It was founded in 2007 by a couple. It's been very successful, is grown to two 7 million members as of last year, the most recent year for figures. They get their income from knitting related ads and small cut on selling patterns. Little more than 1%.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
It had a transformative effect on the computer. This is all from Kathy, who's in the picture. She says it connects people people geographically close but don't know each other, but they have common interest in knitting. People use the same pattern. People have common interests. People need help. One of the very positive things about the site is that people upload pictures of projects they've made using patterns and you can see the patterns look like in real people, not in professional models. She often gives you very misleading idea of what the thing actually looks like, so this is Kathy wearing one of her creations. The Ravelry users are extremely positive about the site. They really feel that the site does not abandoned this ideals. It's kept true to its initial version.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So again thought expired by another anecdotal example. You feel that consistency and openness on the part of the founders is one of the things that made Ravelry such a successful site. Perhaps I had something to do with the fact that is created by family rather than a business organization. It's difficult to say. Perhaps they've just been lucky and no one ever wanted to acquire them. They haven't been faced with a difficult moral choices. Again, that's difficult to say. The long term future unfortunately is unclear, but at some point they're going to have the people who found that are going to retire and then it's not obvious what's going to happen in the organization, but that remains to be seen.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
OK, third example is WordPress. WordPress is a very successful organization. It's also started in 2007. It's a content management system that's now running about half of the Internet's CNS sites. In 2014 most recent year we got figures that they received more visits than Amazon. It's a very successful place. Their initial model is. It is completely free and they had this phrase. Then we care for the beauty of words. But they fairly rapidly move towards a freemium model, introduced ads they tech support is reduced and replaced more by online forums. And they stopped emphasizing words so much 'cause they discovered that people like pictures and pictures were profitable.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And one of the less tasteful things is you keep getting these messages trying to direct you towards the premium service. Things like this.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
This is another example where they tried to direct you to other blogs, so to increase their clickthrough. Anne.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And here is yet another example of the kind of things that are in the direction of increasing commercialization but.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
As a result, all of this you do sort of wonder Tord extent. With the customers, it's not so clear anymore. That's the people who are using the sites is a large business in tech support. And it's become somewhat diluted, but despite.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
All of this. You feel that basically saying true to what they originally said they would do. They investing a lot of resources in keeping the free version, running their independent board, overseeing their development, and they have a foundation philosophy actually seemed to follow, and their foundation philosophy I think is interesting and short enough. It's really working.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Looking at in detail, here it is. It just fits on one slide. Software should be licensed and the new public license should be freely available to anyone to use for any purpose without permission. Open the modifications. Modifications freely. Distributable at no cost without permission for its creators should provide a framework for translation, like it globally. Available to speak of any language. Should provide a framework for extension, so modifications and enhancements conveyed that modifying core code. I think the terrific principles really worth looking at.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So tentative summary from these these three and a half anecdotal examples, we should remember that if you created online community, it actually succeeds. It's extremely valuable property. It could be worth up to 7 or 8 figure sums. The default model is that the network creators with all the rights and the content creators have no rights, which is an open invitation when ethical behavior on the behalf of the network found us who owned this valuable resource they fully control. So. Given that situation, you would be advised to think about what you can do to reduce the temptation to behave unethically, and some of the things you see that do seem to have an effect, or you should plan from the beginning, which, like Karen said. To work in an ethical way, you should try and use open source philosophy whenever you can, if possible all the time. You should give the content creators for exclusive rights to the content, not not non exclusive rights with the normal model. You should make it easy for them to export content for other platforms. They decide they don't like your platform and you have independent oversight. Well, I think that's all I've got time to say in this.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Just talk, thank you.
