Yeah, so it will be from control to turbulence in fluid mechanics and back. If you bring home from from from this talk, or for that matter for those couple of talks, I'll be heavily. Control turbulence is not what I'm talking about. I'll be talking about and that yes, some disclaimer work in progress. I will come to that a little bit later and I'll argue about possible control interpretation of that, but it will come later so because of that sometimes it's called fluid flows without pressure. So this is exogeneous. I also have this initial condition, so now. This causes the right or, for that matter, term which is coming from Brownian motion. So now without this term, what is happening is that if you ignore, although this external injection, you getting custom conservation of integral of you squared in time. Yeah, so profiles and then says that's what they studied under this name of KPZ. What is important for us to separate those two in physics literature is different. It is kind of on the surface, so all potentials but target cost to 0. There is only initial condition for backwards in time dynamics, and now I have this decay in my velocity in terms of fluid mechanics. This fight was a cost of target. It's what they called Brownian, very short correlated initial conditions. So for example, in a regular points along this curve, those differential and good, they actually those which not yet fallen into shock, so they'll end up being very regular if you follow them in a Lagrangian way for this particular specific case that says what's in, I proved yet, although it comes all down the name of proliferation of Cirque shocks, shocks appear in zero time, and there's a dance. It is optimization, so stochastic control is C theaters optimization. Well, this is cost of control and I've already had this quadratic form stand corrected form. Then this standard well they costed call it cost of space. It's how much it costs to build at this moment of time at this point in space. Actually will define object in terms of, you know. It may be not very simple if you think about it in terms of control, but maybe maybe it's still still OK and that's what I wanted to hear your opinion. So its velocity field and density field. OK, so now in obvious talks we also have this gradient of pressure term and pressure, so it's gradient of pressure, right? So now. How now P in fluid mechanics is related to density through equation of state and that's what we call thermodynamic law. Well I've used them as representing uncertainty and optimization control and I of course needed this temporal separation for that. So as as a terms potential, they can still vary, so now you can start dreaming and it's really very provocative, controlled by turbulence. So for example, just to give you, it's actually applies to Burger store insulin. What happens at small scales in terms of statistics, correlation, functions, distributions there, but testing small scales and small scales, you can express it explicitly in terms of fully fully, fully garments, right? So now you can interpret it as a suggestion of concrete control scheme, I mean control which would be. Current language is natural, so this is returning back to what volodia introduce vector potential. Non linearity of special types is compressible, incompressible. Alright, so shocks are here right? Long wave limit of the total lattice. Difficult functions involved multiplication that give you shocks in an optimization product. Sadly, fluid mechanics that are rather so here specifically, I was kind of appeal by this feeling more, less direct and straightforward relation between Bellman in fluid mechanics. Sometimes initial for this backwards in time dynamics. Again very very standard and control serious stuff, right?