[0.0s - 29.0s]
Yeah, so it will be from control to turbulence in fluid mechanics and back. Not really, but will be some discussion. So now single particle is more like a teaser here. It's of course not will not be single, so you'll see what I mean by that, but really. There is an interesting connection which I hope.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
If you bring home from from from this talk, or for that matter for those couple of talks, I'll be heavily. I'll using technique which followed. Introduce yourself restated in a little bit different, from almost the same form, but appropriate for my case. It will not be, it will actually be time dependent control, so not not regarded control, so now. Just to avoid misunderstanding, cannot be discussing so flow. Fluid mechanics is not because I want to control flows. There are a lot of you know there are terms of control from country coming from controls, control community optimization, community to control, fluid mechanics. Control turbulence is not what I'm talking about. It's more about theoretical relations and Belmont. Hamiltonian Kobe equation being a certain fluid mechanics type of equations and drawing on, you know some conclusions based on this relations. Between optimal controls equation for optimal control for an equations for velocity field, fluid mechanics, type of relations. So now what I put here is the kind of big chart, not not fully filled, not pretending for completeness. So I'll basically be somewhere at this low level, but statistical physics you know kind of big picture and of course very simplified. We start our classes from equilibrium from describing detailed balance, rotation, dissipation theorem. Well sometimes you go into different cases. Difficult cases like glasses where state space is very degenerate and sometimes we even discussed dynamics. I mean how things are correlated in equilibrium, but then really next step is non equilibrium. And the first example and main example is 1 sink flow. There is no detailed balance, but there is a kind of clear direction over stuff flows, and then there is a one next level which which is even more difficult and there are few things known. This way it flows everywhere, flows in all possible direction. That's what turbulences. And so now I'm not saying that, well, it's a loose, loose way of choosing terms in mathematical engineering. I was tempted to call it theoretical unchaining butts and Roy complain. So that's on the other side of that. We have those all those communities here come back. Don't worry, you didn't like statistical engineering, so now I'm quitting his mathematical engineering, right? So there are inference. All this graphical model type of problem. Same here. There are plenty of relations. That's all this belief. Propagation story model is happening in here. Half of this audience. Well more less work on that worked in the past or continue working. And of course there are other connections to various cooperation research subject like Markov chain and queuing. It goes both the equilibrium and tune equilibrium with stories with flexes. From an equilibrium and you know, ultimately simple flexes to control. That's what volodia those couple of examples for labels describing, so I'm kind of yeah, and I'm not pretending they will be resolving it, so I feel that it's kind of scratching huge huge. Actually, not not yet seen, so iceberg yeah type of thing. So what does that say? It's more less cartoon or what what? I'll be talking about and that yes, some disclaimer work in progress.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So now what I'll do. First, I will restate some of things from volunteer talk more or less in the same way, but just to to you know, to understand that we're on the same page, and then I'll proceed to this analogy between not technology, actual equivalence between. Incumbent on the coffee and our generalized form of government with record this vector potential saying. But it's more or less, you know, Bell Mcguinn Tony, Kobe even without vector potential, which we can discuss here as well. Two burgers equations and Berg. Balance is a burgers, turbulence, etc. Wheel fresh coins, some of human or real fun term which we love to use in a statistical hydrodynamics community. Yeah, and basically I'll I'll argue about. I'll tell you it will be some story about about shocks and some story about it's actually there is a another sister physics system which is actually almost identical to burgers called Cape Cod or Pariser junk. So also discuss that and then that will be main part of the talk and then really speak quality way. I'll I'll try to make a case for even more difficult. You know control problems and for that on the leading to novice talks or even more difficult. Connect problems where this relation will lead us not yet clear to me. So for that matter I'll be. I'll be welcome now. Welcome any comments on that and then then I'll conclude.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So now it is stating what followed a set and simplifying it a bit, simplifying first in terms of I'll not be considering, so you remember already had this G metrics right metric? So it will be trivial, so there will be flat. In my case I will not be discussing anything sophisticated this way. So yes I have. My force field I have control. I have my lunch event type of thing, Brownian motion, standard control setting. So now I'll be discussing. Well, control state it is optimization, and as usual we assume averaging over noise. And we have number of terms which we pull together and some right, and that's our control state. It is optimization, so stochastic control is C theaters optimization. Well I I put some names which which I like we like and it's probably not custom and not standard and control but at least it's it's intuitive and I hope it will be no. Not much of a complaint about that, so that's where you want to get more fine at moment of time. Target cost. Right that maybe. Function. Well, this is cost of control and I've already had this quadratic form stand corrected form. In this case it will be use quit and to get fluid mechanics in it you know trivial flat sink, otherwise it will be more difficult stuff which which which may be interesting and actually may lead to something else, but that will be simplification and you know. Insignificant, which I'll be using, cannot be departing from that. Then this standard well they costed call it cost of space. It's how much it costs to build at this moment of time at this point in space. And well, this vector potential stuff like all it cost of dynamics. It's well for lack of better term, but whether we have expressing it, why dynamics? Well because dynamics directly enters. So if you I'll not be dealing with things like what already was explaining. Treating those things as a Lagrangian multipliers literally be thinking about that as my my cost and therefore well, this cost is only called term which which knows how my particle. So I'm thinking about practical, right? So practical moving causes dimensional space. How my particle moves so dimensional space and actually this fluid mechanics will be in D dimension. Mechanics will be discussing right, and so that's a standard definition in physics, physics, physics, physics notation for for average ignatic spectation, but brackets. I'm sure you know all people from mathematical engineering already already used to that, yes. It's like a white noise, so if so how? Where better, yeah, well it's not because, well, you can. You can express it in terms of right now, so you can just substitute it, but it's not the whole point. It's well, you literally follow your particles. You know where your particles hit and you know what is. Well it says how much it cost for particle to go with this velocity through this point. So you penalize or encourage move motion with certain velocity. Vacation, I mean. Average weight loss is infinite with every point in time because it's alright, so that's why I'm uncomfortable ool. Actually will define object in terms of, you know. It's really well I can discretize in time and a contributor lies all of that and it will be well defined object. If this is what you what you care about so I can, I can develop with the Stratonovich formulation. I can put it. I didn't want to do it. I want to simplify it again. It is stochastic differential equation, but I think of that as a basically multiple realizations of my noise. I can think of them as a kind of. Oh yeah, so I have expectation of everything. So there is a bracket and yeah. If you want to use for the probability language, you can actually show that you can like define the integral of a over stochastic trajectory. Using this like each integral right for almost all projectors with respect to the information. Oh, it's integral DT, I see. It is integral. Yeah, of course of course of course of course sorry sorry so yeah. Well you know, yeah, so this is love, love to write it in this form because because you know, it's like like if you don't have stochastic yes tickets. So now almost. Classical well almost because of this term, right? So that's it's what we introduce and we find it useful. Actually it will be somehow useful in context of what I'm discussing, even though not not not in all places, not not fall. And yeah, and yeah, so once again it is example in the sense that what followed was discussing his was marginal.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So now in. Those densities and currents which followed introduce, so I just wanted to make clear what what are those. So you have this current point. Well current moment of time T, and that's where you want to go, and you owe me. Have I consider this stochastic realizations of my noise, right? So my my stochastic noise and then I can see the different projectors in this particular example. Just for illustration, I'm assuming that all my I want all my particles to be. I mean I want my particle to be finite moment of time at this fixed position. So it's fixed, right? So it's why all trajectory start from this point. So trajectory's are different colors and I will be able raging over all those trajectories. So this is what were the separating means. But also what I want to do, I want to operate in time migration time from at this current moment of time till the end. And so I basically count well, density is counting how many. So if I position myself at this level and I count how many times all those particles I have also sample particles cross this level, right? Well, in this case for three trajectory's I have 6. Here I have 3 + 4 + 3 and there's more less what was the subject is of course properly normalized, so it in some. You know, I normalize. So it goes to unity. When I sum integrator oh X. So that's what densities. So now. Similarly I can do current and now I have this velocity at I count when I basically have this crossing. Also count how it crosses, I mean with which velocity across and that's that enters in weight and average again both with respect trajectories and with respect to time. And that's what my cursor. So this is Kayla. This is this vector. And, well, it's already, even though I'll be discussing, like you know, one particle, one particle control problem. So instead particle moving can dimension. But of course when I think about control, I think about planting media trajectory's and therefore it is really not really single, particle characteristics is multi particle characteristics which which I'm playing with. So now this focal point, which we heard from Volodya but project blank and continue it here. So it's a relation between density and current, right? So just continuity equation. Nothing, nothing but standard continuity. But you know, for this object it's more less straightforward. It's very generic, right? So now a little bit more specific for the type of equation we have stochastic equation. Well, we have this strength of noise entering right and that's what creates info kerplunk diffusion, right? But here it is a vector field, so one gradient here another gradient. Here's what will become diffusion. Well, now shifting a little bit towards this fluid mechanics. So this is a drift type of thing, right conclude? Mechanics F My my. Vector field acting on my particle and this is control which I want to apply and now is already. I was telling you so you can actually invert it. You can think about optimization over control is optimization over density and current.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And right so. I was surprised to control that was well, he was telling you about what I was telling you about. An example of this. So. Well, timing depends how you call it. Well, it's nostalgic regarding control, but here it's more general is basically time dependent, but it's more less with what you already heard from holiday, so you minimize the cost function. And there is this standard. You know it's a cost of cost of control, and there are all those potentials, right? So there is a cost target cost, so defining where you want to get there is a scalar potential that is vector. Potential, that's that's what what I'm just requesting.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
But what if it from already? So now, Belmont Hamilton Jacobi equation written down here and you already saw it. It's more or less the same, so now. Right, so it was derived invalid formulation by aiding here's a Lagrangian multiplier to Focal Plunkett was just nuance of derivation then. This potential cost target cost center says if you see initial condition will be calling it initial, but of course it's backwards. Sometimes initial for this backwards in time dynamics. Again very very standard and control serious stuff, right? So now what is not standard is because a vector potential have this elongation. Derivative and there is certain invariants, and actually this Lagrangian multiplier happened to be our cost cost to go. So this what we actually optimized in control, so now.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
With that, let me now switch gears and go into interpretation that yes.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So again, the night person because. Hello is it was no fluid mechanics yet? It's not well made. Another Colibri was that make maybe a little bit of statical physics jargon, but not nothing, it's control. Do you have that actually? And having sex with them. And in the in the glass coverage available on information, you can in case where you can have an extra term is when we have a course. That is, let's say state defendant you have to stay with them in file. The other control dependent. Actually about that is mixing controls and states it some you may think of it as is that yes, it's a. It's a one special. I'm not surprised, yeah, and if you can tell us you know how to call, it will be more than happy. I'm not surprised that it's very natural to have. Pretend that racing composing states. Well, he is more or less well, so in this in this work is right. This methodologically knew and convenient way to derive Bellman equation with these additional constraints. But otherwise it is reformulation of control theory, yeah? In the rift, if for ether. You so it's not. OK, so. Well, if you will show us, you know concrete control textbook or for that matter paper. Whereas this type of discuss will of course be happy. So it says we didn't find it and we don't think it is standard. But yes it is mixing state and. Write it OK so. Like for example on Microsoft customer controller market jump in Fusion processes and he actually has this variation. Derivation. Control on this. OK, you really want me to to get back to.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
That off. So at the door, when you substitute you'll get you term, so it will be mixed. You and A and that's what you're discussing. But you'll get multiple other terms which are not the same. And those tells. Well, we're saying that physically has a lot of sense, so it's about current. It's about flux. It's about controlling that. So maybe I will not be surprised if it was discussing controls here in some way. But it's not just, you know, some function of Atom multiplied by U, it's not. That's going to be against a defendant. Class another thing that's gonna be OK. If you will find a way to express it as a function of justice, U Annetta. Tell us please. We don't know it. OK, but any case. So going going further.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Contractual subject of the talk. So I want to relate to beautiful situation. So now.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Well, and actually what what I'm doing now is kind of more less straightforward from this Bellman equation. So just reshuffling the analysis but analysis using maybe terms which are which are not standard for control community. So now, well, what I'll be combination of control an four. Well, this natural force. I'll be calling it velocity. Alright, bye. Clearly why right? Because its velocity in the space space and that's really will have a meaning of velocity of my particles. Or for that matter multiple particles in flow. And now I'm arriving at this formal. So now this nonlinear term investment equation, because I choose this very simple, so my quadratic term was was really with zero curvature. I mean my favorite form of control was just trivially you squared, so it became that, and So what was originate Ng from noise in my fluid mechanics terminology, that would be with positive. So this is what we call self advection. With some major term in kind of fluid mix, so its velocity is affecting itself right? So the gradient we I can put it in this way gradient with squared. But I can also call it the gradient. And yeah, so all those other things and those other things. Well, there are a number of those. Well, actually we turn down here is big, you know train. So let me first call it pumping injection driving an for this for the time being I'll be considering exogeneous so it's not something which which which is a result of solving the situation but given well what can be given. It can be my scalar potential can be given so cost cost of space, my cost of what I was calling vector potential cost of dynamics. This is given. Also, my forces then think I mean that my regional forces entering, but those are all in here. OK, so now if you abstract yourself from control theory and you have some fluid mechanics background humidly recognizing that. Burgers equation so now it's backwards in time, so backward sometime it's normal normal flow and that that's what I want to discuss for a little bit and just give you some some. It is better situation and that's what I want to discuss and I want to discuss consequences of this analogy. Women having this. What I'm discussing, but it's also burgers equation forced or with some initial condition, and this force initial condition. So when I hear from there on the left hand side or for that matter what I have is initial condition. So my cost my target cost may be rather nontrivial and that's what makes problem nontrivial, and I'll discuss what it means in fluid mechanics jargon filled me in turbulence. Actually, if it is complex enough and difficult enough that I'm getting to what is called Google and see what will freshen? House is not cooling. Seen I and others were calling workers.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
OK, so. Alright, so now. So there is this guy I just rewrote it and. Before going into details. So what what kind of phenomena can get? Let me speculate a little bit about, you know interpretation of follow that so I can interpret, for example, cost. Cast of space right as so it may depend on time and space, and I can interpret it as an uncertainty, so it may be actually rather rather complicated function, and it may be a simple function, but maybe with some some variations on top of that, and so that's what I want. Kind of to discuss, so that's what I want to consider and this scale and vector. Is a well I can say I want to think of them again. I am now clarifying this terminology in physics. We are saying that, well we call it fluctuations when it depends on space and time. It actually changes when it's frozen and it fixed. Sometime we call a disorder. OK, so this kind of spin glass terminology that would be called disorder and. So here when I'll be discussing those different characteristics, changing of fluctuating. Of course, I'll be assuming that there is this space for that method on the 1st place time separation. So of course I had this longeron noise, so I have those fast fluctuations and this is the fastest thing I have and then everything else is kind of maybe evolving, maybe very, very kind of disordered, but it's changing much slowly, and that's important for whatever time discussing. So now this initial potential. My initial condition in terms of backwards. Sometimes dynamics is of course only depends on space, but it may be rather difficult, so that's the type of situations which I'm discussing. So now another interesting thing which will be even more important later on. Appearance of this vector field without. So everything is under gradient. It's actually it's without that time when you get a standard multi dimensional burgers equation and that's kind of violates that. So it creates a special additional structure which also maybe it may be important. Alright, so as interpretation I'll note.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So now. Burgers equation is also sometimes called fluid flows of fluid dynamics without pressure because there is also in Nivea stock there is additional term gradient pressure and pressure is reconstructed either from another equation of Roman compatibility conditions. I will come to that a little bit later and I'll argue about possible control interpretation of that, but it will come later so because of that sometimes it's called fluid flows without pressure. So like gradient of pressure is 0. But this may be confusing terminology, so don't take it as you know, free flows without pressure. So now interesting sync, which now I kind of change gears and I start using physics. You know jargon really in full what we also often consider we consider situation when well we basically love to compare right so different terms order of magnitude like Lando Commando validate. So which one is absorbed? If you know of their fortunes in this in this equation, right? So this is exogeneous. I also have this initial condition, so now. This causes the right or, for that matter, term which is coming from Brownian motion. Very often we have a large scale and rather intense variations in. Is this cost stuff or an initial condition? In this case this term. At this scale, both in terms of special scale and amplitude, this term is really will really not be important, so we call it in this kit, so it's very tempting to ignore this term, and that's what often do. We need to be very careful with that. And there are plenty of stuff which actually originally kind of naively, this term is not important, but it is and. All the sink which is called dissipated fenomenale is associated with it. So now without this term, what is happening is that if you ignore, although this external injection, you getting custom conservation of integral of you squared in time. So we call it energy because in fluid mechanics is really energy of your flow and. It is conserved at zero with positive on this term is ignored. For new is zero, and when the Six Genius Sandwich, also called pumping, is it not so now? He's already said Bergans is burgers turbulence, it is, and there are different flavors of this burgers turbulence, so this is very well studied or well studied. So it's actually many of this stuff been started by Kolmogorov three degree, and it's actually funny, right? So Kolmogorov started a lot stuff in control theory. He started some Alyssa this burger equation. Situation basically soon I of course didn't of Kolmogorov advanced alot alot alot of this study burgers turbulence as well. So now there are two mainly two. There are many sub flavors but two major flavors. One is what we call decay burgers when you don't have anything exogeneous and you have initial condition which is rather difficult and you want to know what happens with initial condition, I'll start from that. And in terms of control that will mean that I don't have cost cost of space. I don't have this cost of dynamics, only have target cost. OK. So now, right? Well, this is probably just wanted to mention. I'll be happy to discuss that offline. There is a very close relation to what is called Kardar Parisi Zhang, so Carter policy junk in general is more less that, but under conditions in the Sky is gradient, which is violated by this vector field, which I which I introduced if I have it, and it has this type of equations and this type of physics originates from growing surface. Dynamic so you start throwing particles and they form this. You know avalanches and difficult, difficult interfaces, not interfaces, you know. Yeah, so profiles and then says that's what they studied under this name of KPZ. So now it doesn't need to be. Those two are very closely related, however they often quarreled bergans when. What is important for us to separate those two in physics literature is different. Different type of problems. So this type of situation happens when really my my flows are large scale and at large scale system is not important in terms of balance of different terms. So I kind of inject to create motion at one scale and then it dissipate it. So this integral of motion energy dissipated at very different scales. So now in Cape Easy it's usually happens all at once. Scale it small scale so KPZ is more less situation. With this fluctuations I mean this extraneous term is very small scale both in space and time, but otherwise you know there are many different situations will not be covering all of them. I'll just discuss couple which probably most interesting from point of view.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Control. Voice especially well yes, OK busy is a special special. White noise is actually the second derivative for this equation of white noise in space, right? They'll Delta that well formally need to work. Work it out, but yeah, so it's very short correlated, right? So in standard turbulence setting usually considered exactly opposite situation when you have a very long correlations of your of your source and then you asking questions about what happens at scale, which is much smaller. So it's erotica scale. It makes a big difference in huge difference in terms of you know what you know. What is important, what is not. Is that the?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Is that the key that I is that without the white noise? Well, kind would be white noise and age, I mean respective source for H will be second derivative of whiteness. This equation is being studied. It's what what, what, what I'm reporting here so I'm not. I'm not talking anything terribly new in terms of fluid mechanics. I'm just wanting to request it and want to state it as a controls here, right, right, right? So it's well is that will be questioned. It's already now I can ask this question. I've already been asking. So what is it? What are interesting control problems where those interesting phenomena which which I'm yet to tell you bout plays a role? And there are plenty of phenomena and I didn't see them discussing control C to literature. That's why I want to, you know, to open it up, kind of. But

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Maybe maybe it was already discussed and then rest. Yeah, so one example, which is probably the simplest but already nontrivial. And again, it's I'll not be surprised if it was discussed. It is kind of on the surface, so all potentials but target cost to 0. So in terms of my equations there is no source term. There is only initial condition for backwards in time dynamics, and now I have this decay in my velocity in terms of fluid mechanics. Is the decay of this initial profile. This fight was a cost of target. In the cost in the cost in my optimism controls here optimization formulation of control. It was this five which entered which which is cost called target cost. But what I was connected costs and now let me assume that this function is such that. If I naively substituted back.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
I have this initial, I mean final initial moment of time, right? So I can estimate what is the value of this term in this initial moment of time and then I can estimate what is the value of this term and I'm in situation when this is much smaller. So basically major contribution is here, so of course I'll start developing dynamics between those two jumps, right? And that's what I'm discussing and so this is the case when this was cause it here when noise is very small when certainty is very small. Right and I'm or less, at least for beginning. I can have this deterministic control type of situation.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
But very soon I'll run into into trouble, and this trouble translate into shock and shock is, well, key object in this burgers turbulence. So it's all about how those shocks are created, how they interact with each other. They actually do it. Another interesting and relatively simple way, so it's well well studied, and that's what the subject was. The subject is about, so I'm just briefly, briefly telling you what is that? Discussing limit of banishing noise. Right, so I basically so this is my profile. So now I do it backwards in time and this is my control field or my velocity field which is, you know, little T which is smaller than T capital, right? So I do it backwards in time and well, I already showed regime where I develop, so I first ignore my discord it right. And then of course if I ignore my viscosity term.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So I can integrate and I don't have this term. I can integrate this equation back or sing along characteristics of course, right?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And that's what is written here. So this is what we call Lagrangian map. It's very explicit expression for the the colored Lagrangian velocity. We call it the learning velocity and this is Lagrangian. Why lagrangian? Because velocity along trajectory of my particle. So I'm now can think about particle moving right? So those are particles so I've actually did this not let's not call it even simulation. So simple simple Matlab right? So those are real particles and colors identical. So these particles move here. This particle moves there. So read more less they stay at the same place and so it's a result of just simple integration of this equation with. This initial profile so had this fear not. And this is profile which had developed so now of course I'm in trouble when I have this. When my mil Osity because it becomes multivalued. In this case, there are three at the same position. That certain moment of time I have three different three different values, right? So which one to choose? Of course, this cause it here is stochastic term, particularly, will regularize that. So if I'm not, I don't care about resolving this very small scales. So basically resolution is that I need to my my profile will be like that. Here and then I do jump it's real jump. It's real singularity in my control field and then will be will be no so 111 and one map right? So not not. I'll not I'll not have this multivalued function. So now this is very simple straightforward triggers and this resolution, which I basically I should rule of thumb is that I should place this line so that those areas should be equal to each other. This is called Max ferro rule. It has many. You know different interpreted in many areas in thermodynamics and statistical physics and physics in general. It's very similar, but here. How you should think about that is that if I don't care to resolve this shock, what happens at very small scales in sport is small, small is. You know this fiscal scale or what we call Kolmogorov scale, then it will be jump. Of course, in reality it will be smoothed out but smooth out by this viscosity term. So this cause it will be important only over here and anywhere, anywhere here in there it will not be important. OK, so now what I'm what I'm what I'm thinking in terms of control, I'm seeing that I develop from very kind of smooth velocity, very kind of strange velocity, right? So if I'm if I'm here, I basically my optimal velocity is rather large, so this green this is actual value of velocity, but if I if I move a little bit over here it's you know it's small and this is optimal and this is already not optimal. Right, what else can I say so that is, that is a similar situation with just one shock, but now?

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Now plenty of stories where you have multiple multiple shocks and you don't need to have to be very creative to get that. So this picture this rather special. Oh yeah, by the way. So what I'm discussing is here is.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Dimensional, the generalization of that, I'll show you a couple of pictures for 2 dimensional three dimension and is getting even more interesting in high dimensions. So majority of studies so far they remain in one dimension in two dimensions. So Ultra low dimensional but was not enough of motivation to study it as far as I can tell from fluid in fluid mechanics it high dimension, but there are plenty of motivations in coming from control if it is of interest, so that will be actually 11 type of questions which I would ask where you see this field. But now this.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Situation which is actually was started by Sinai and others. It's what they called Brownian, very short correlated initial conditions. So it is initial, so it's not noise which injects all the time. But it's very very very, you know small scale and it's basically random in space that's initial condition you create and then well. Over here I didn't. I didn't maybe.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Verified this singularity which develops in finite time. For this condition, right? So it's already basically well here when I showed it in here. So already passed the singularity right away. Develop shock. But there is a finite time for any smooth condition. But if you start from Brown, initial condition will develop it and basically zero time. So will be here arkie of hierarchy of times an Iraqi of those.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So shock so you're getting profile like that. Well, it's a mess over control field, right to have, but that's that's that's what it is. So this is optimal if if you have this type of control problems when you are now and when you can have it when you may have it. When you uncertainty in the cost for target cost, that's one way to model uncertainty in a target cost and then. You know solution which will be getting problems with interpreters, a kind of robust control. Is there a radio, some semantical features which you can actually prove? So for example, in a regular points along this curve, those differential and good, they actually those which not yet fallen into shock, so they'll end up being very regular if you follow them in a Lagrangian way for this particular specific case that says what's in, I proved yet, although it comes all down the name of proliferation of Cirque shocks, shocks appear in zero time, and there's a dance. So you see that they're basically everywhere. Alright.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So now I'm. Multiple interesting physical situations which observed an all of them should have some interpretation in terms of control, and I list some of those. You are getting cascade in a sense of Kolmogorov cascade, so you start even in this simple. Decatur balance case. So you start from this initial distribution, you evolve it, and if it is, you know one scale, let's say, but rather multiple Maxima and minima you develop many shocks. So short larger this they move faster so they eat those shocks which are smaller. So if you're discussing decay problem, you're getting, you may get what you have in here.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
As a transient, but then eventually you'll end up is 1 big shock. One big. You know, somewhere very back in time you control becomes relatively simple. It is still have singularity, but it's only one singularity, but it's really back in time. And then if you wait even longer back in time then we completely becomes. You know nothing you can do it completely flatten because with positive which is still there will completely flat and adapt. So this is a decaying turbulence case. But in a transit you're getting through this very turbulent situations, multiple scales. And you know there are multiple, you know statements which you can make, like Kolmogorov cascade type of state.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Which again, I'll be happy to discuss offline, but I don't think it's good to discuss any details now now. If you keep injecting those, if you now have not only this cost of target cost, but also cost, cost of space, or this cost cost of dynamics, then you'll start injecting GNU GNU GNU perturbations, which will keep developing into shocks and you develop what we actually call stated Google Answer, study, study burgers turbulence so shock will appear bigger one will move faster, they'll eat smaller shocks. And that will repeat, so you'll get you know distribution of those shocks in space and time. And there are various universal statements which you can make statistical statements about velocity correlations about velocity correlations forgiven snapshots given different times and in one dimension is very well studied. And again, I'm repeating what I said before in multiple dimensions, not. You can have what we're calling this nice and clear understanding Industrial Lagrangian picture that's actually position. Over shock. So space time and that's actually what happens. This is a shock merging, so there's two shocks and they basically merge so one of them was running faster. Well, you might have kicked case when you have this, you know. When you cost functions would be more or less kind of changing in in steps or like 0 jump and then zero Jam 0 jam. So that would be equivalent to to study it and what is called and the name of kick turbulence. Right, by the way alot of this stuff. It's if it sounds interesting to you. Check this review, it's just review. So it combines many sayings and there are probably few things happen. After 2001. The hottest years of this field from 95 till 2000 was a lot of stuff going on, but something still still happening and it's a good review. And you know basically in this language which I'm using it here and then I'm using some pictures from from this review.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Now I was a user can see a couple of pictures actually not from somebody else. Some other papers fresh I believe was my similar was fresh students, so that was back back 20 years ago. So it's 2 dimensional simulation, 3 dimensional simulations. And now your shocks aligns in two dimensions in the complicated surface in three dimensions, and it's really interesting and beautiful dynamics which which happens by the way in terms of if you're talking about getting from that. Computational maybe advantage becausw of because of this very deep physical understanding of how exactly we should result or shocks that you basically don't need to put this viscosity all the time. You know exactly when to use it, only in jams, and that's if you of course don't want to resolve what is happening within this shock. It is there are very efficient computational algorithm and for.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
That matter, Jeremy Burke is first also here. He's at nice here.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
It's probably champion of the world in that type of simulation. There are a lot of computational advantage, which probably should have some consequences in to should proliferate in control. Now, right? So plenty of interesting physics now.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
And I have 10 minutes right in those remaining 10 minutes. Let me elevate my dreams even further and right.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Other other than Bill Gates, KPZ fluid mechanics relevant for control, and here I'm really speculative, but I think.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
And, well, I basically would say that any fluid mechanics problem I can probably interpret it as a certain control problem, but I can do it well. It may be not very simple if you think about it in terms of control, but maybe maybe it's still still OK and that's what I wanted to hear your opinion. So now being fluid mechanics cistern, first equation you you study in your fluid mechanics course is not in stock. So nervous talk is actually in a compressible case when. Your. Well compressibility so there are two 2 fields which you want to follow. Which media stocks are two equations which which in combination called nervous talks well never talks, is normally called one of them and another is density evolution right? So its velocity field and density field. So your fluid element flows with a certain velocity and their density of this fluid element and may change if you. If you recall that's exactly our equation for density which we already have so now. What is kind of missing? OK, so now in obvious talks we also have this gradient of pressure term and pressure, so it's gradient of pressure, right? So pressure is scalar scalar field an it's express how the force which acts on the fluid element kind of homogeneously. So now think of this term and now I switch to control as part of the Sky part which was coming from some of those cost cost function. So now. How now P in fluid mechanics is related to density through equation of state and that's what we call thermodynamic law. And for for example, if you have no ideal gas, so that would be P is raw in some simple power. All of that I can kind of plug in and I can interpret as a control. So what this interpretation would mean? So if you remember this P. Well, I should probably unwrap it back.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Right, so this is the Sky an already have gradient, but so far when I was discussing this burger story, this was exogeneous to me. So given external. So by my cost is fixed and now I keep doing kind of optimization. But now what I'm suggesting I'm suggesting I pick the scalar potential which is cost of space and I like I split it. I have one term which is still exogenous which remains in my right hand side in my equation. But then another I'm saying I want it. To be dependent on density and what is its density. So have those probe particles which which I sent right and I count density and I basically reconfigure my cost cost of space according according to this relation so now. It's more less what fluid mechanics is in terms of control in different type of different type of thermodynamic relation between pressure and density. So I can interpret as this very special type of non linearity dependence of pressure on a density field. I'm sorry dependent of course cost of space on the density field. OK. Good men field game. Very popular today. I feel games will do that very good.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Numbers in his field middle so so very good, very good well. Actually, I don't know field medals for fluid for turbulence. Yeah, so that's that's OK. So that is the verb or less any fluid mechanics you know. 90% will now probably 50% of people at my lap. That's almost national language is largest in US. Work on, you know something related to this set of equations, fluid mechanics. Well, we also can get to incompressible control now, so this is compressible. This is incompressible, so incompressibility with milk so naturally when you have this relation between P and raw. Is this function may be faster, maybe slow, so how how it changes with density so it changes fast so the pidro is large. It means that the Peter or just dimensionality considerations must have dimension of velocity, so an it is nothing but philosophy of sound. So if your fluid mechanics or control velocity is smaller than speed of sound, then you end incompressible case actually, then there are no shocks and in this case shocks situation is extremely compressible situation. Basically this dipierro is smaller 0. Right, so this is of course much more started case and there are plenty of. Well, this is where we have this clear Kolmogorov cascade. There are zillions of interesting phenomena. There is direct cascades. There is inverse cascade in even dimensions. So what will be interpretation of that in terms of control? I feel like you know there are for any of these phenomena in fluid mechanics there should be should be some some effect in control. Right? And I see.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
OK, I'm ready to finish, so returning back to this. Right so uncertain Tyra Buss control so stochastic potential. Well I've used them as representing uncertainty and optimization control and I of course needed this temporal separation for that. So this learn to learn German type of things is the fastest, but then. So as as a terms potential, they can still vary, so now you can start dreaming and it's really very provocative, controlled by turbulence. So if. There is a theory or there is understanding of interpreting the major fundamental sink is universality. So for example, just to give you, it's actually applies to Burger store insulin. If you have this doesn't matter what I details of your injection at this right hand side. What happens at small scales in terms of statistics, correlation, functions, distributions there, but testing small scales and small scales, you can express it explicitly in terms of fully fully, fully garments, right? It is irrelevant to details of this injection. There are two or three parameters which characterizes distribution functions well. What are those parameters physically? It's a temp of injection. Injection, so it's basically defines the strength of your programs or cascade right of injection? Well, that's basically. In zero approximations, that's it. Here I'm of course talking about homogeneous isotropic turbulence. There are many many new answers, so if you have pipe, if you have different boundary conditions, what will be on larger scale? But in all those cases it is a significant reduction, so we know a lot about you know either empirically or sometimes theoretically about statistics. So now you can interpret it as a suggestion of concrete control scheme, I mean control which would be. One realization you just sample this distributions, which you derive from solving this turbulence and that may be solving computationally or maybe solving analytical combination of the two. Right, so that sets I see I see some value on that and I hope it will work in some way.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And so right? So I put here all those things which I was telling about density. Current language is natural, so this is returning back to what volodia introduce vector potential. Even if you don't need it. It's very natural because it allows you. It's kind of introduces duality becausw between density and currents and that's that's what we're using. Any case in an equilibrium start make a lot, so that's at least for that, at least for formal reason. It's useful. Yeah, so face based dynamics even without this. Non linearity of special types is compressible, incompressible. It Maps to burgers, keep easy and with a lot of a lot of consequences. Following from that in particular shocks. Alright, so shocks are here right? So I was telling you about about way to Moreles find various countries so you can view it in two ways I can. I don't know if it will be useful for physics that maybe that I can interpret certain differences. There are plenty of other fluid mechanics problem. For example there is this MHD magnetic hydrodynamics. I bet I can find proper control problem which will be describing Image D. So is there is a value that for. You know I can. I can probably try to think of it as a tool for simulations if there is already an appropriate develop tool in control theory, and of course as around some phenomena in particular this universality statement, maybe it may be very useful for control less, I guess.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Major takehome message. Alright, so there's about this directions. There is other things which kind of alluded touch very briefly, but potentially it's interesting. So here I was talking primarily about average density, an average current, and I can start asking questions about fluctuations and all this large deviation questions, which which which we also heard about. So there's all the map and here and there are probably various generalizations of that type. Well, yeah, this is fine example which I mentioned. That's actually it doesn't need to be 2 dimensional, it's any even dimensions here developing. Inverse cascade and what is inverse cascade is order from disorder. That's how we call it in physics. So you start you know, jiggling on small scales and you develop large scale structures. What this is? Well, with this interpretation of that and control, it may be interesting story to unwrap, thank you. Mapping. This is a relatively easy problem, too much harder. Yeah, no, it's it's as usual. It's not clear if this mobile will be in which direction that will be useful. For the time being, we feel that just translation might help, because it may be. Maybe some of you never know. I probably missed appointment. Is it true that you would find interesting any optimization problem? Produce shocks. Yes so. Well implementation problem where you expect some some kind of structure appears. Some singularity pest control of our control problem right? Which state that is optimization where you know that your control field will be kind of regular and very special multi scale etc. So then this analogy may be useful for that. Long wave limit of the total lattice. When you treat those control problem. Find that only for for quadratic Lee, described initial profiles do you avoid shocks. For all other cases, you get a shot right, so there are very simple no. Difficult functions involved multiplication that give you shocks in an optimization product. Genetically you'll get shocks in the in the standard Bellman equation. Generically, for it doesn't need to be very difficult. You know, cost function, but exactly the set, right? So generic will get shock shocks, but interesting stories like like Burger and stories will be when will be kind of proliferation of those folks will be many and will be running. They still not very difficult. That's what I'm saying. Such as many shops if there are reversals in the system. That's right, that's right, but that's in burgers case. So now if you start playing in this non linearity stories will be all kind of other fluid mechanics phenomena. So beyond the shocks vertexes. Interesting things that come from fluid mechanics, or is your only interest in things that are simple and produce shocks? I I'm interested in, you know, I don't know. Yeah, in exploration mode, so we just started in this regards and we're seeking advice on what what is more interesting from what is less interesting, so preliminary we would say that it's probably interesting to go both ways so you can start from some fluid mechanics phenomenon. You can start translating it into control, or you can do reverse. There is recent work by Com Richardson. He shows that there's a kind of a wavelike interpretation of decoding which exhibit soundry solid tones. Anne. Be natural to kind of conjecture that there might be some completely integrable Hamiltonian system or something. Yeah, I write so well. Actually no, this work rather well because the person who was doing it was actually my postdoc at Los Alamos. Well, with Tom and Rudy, yeah, so she knew could occur. Well over there dynamics is actually not control dynamics, but decoding dynamics and well, there are plenty of dynamical problems in this mathematical engineering and probably still yeah, so we can. We can analyze some of them, especially if it is kind of you can interpret them as continuous dynamics in many of these. Sadly, fluid mechanics that are rather so here specifically, I was kind of appeal by this feeling more, less direct and straightforward relation between Bellman in fluid mechanics. Systems are the only cases for the 100 Jacobi. There's a global solution. Right, right. Right now it's I what I was telling you. It's not integrability stories, so it's not about integrable. In this sense, it's more. It's much more involved, but I'm saying that there are still nontrivial statistical statements, so probability serious statements about this beautiful ends and through Wellness talks another turbulences. Some of them actually rigorous and mathematical. So again people likes in my advancing this, you know mathematics. Well, we call it statistical hydrodynamics, but there is also mathematical portion of this field. Of course, as usual, there is a huge gap between what you can prove and what all you know the whole spectrum of things which are going on as in control, right? So there are applied surgical. So I think we can go to the coffee preference.
