In healthcare, so Europe is facing a big challenge. Transparency and openness of data is something that is being pushed by governments all over Europe and at the same time, data is being digitized. These three new shifts into building next generation health services, and that is seen as a very beneficial. So you've got clinical data, medical records, medical images and so on and so forth. You've got health claims and costs coming from governmental organizations, hospital health care centers, ministries. Do the exercise. Which means that in the effort to perform all that public protection and disaster relief activities are becoming more and more data intensive and data hungry. Ways we did things in the past. So as our operations and procedures are becoming more and more data centric, we need to know more about who, what, when and where an all. Free text, pictures, videos, sounds, location, all that. So let's see where that can apply customer data monetization. So the structure of the presentation is as follows. Developed in within Axis in order to take advantage of data and big data in specific. And then we're going to see some paradigms in security, health and the finance domain. It is important that we establish an information culture. What data do we really need? Who owns the data? So with these three simple rules, I would like like to leave you and let you go to lunch and the abundance of data that we have been talking about this last two days can really become an opportunity for your organization only when you ensure the data sets, quality and blend, you get the right expertise on board. Few words about access and who we are. We are software house that was established in Athens 25 years ago and over the years we have grown to become one of the leading software vendors in Greece and now we operate our own offices in London as well and we've got operations and projects being delivered in more than in 16 countries as we speak. Under this light or innovation activities are also focusing on how we can extract value by improving the software that we're building and by leveraging more an more of the data and the ample information that is available currently, our focus, our innovation activities are organized around 4 strategic islands of excellence, with the core being around data technologies which is used as a workhorse to fuel innovation in vertical domains. Thank you ICT for health and creativity and learning. But the most important things is that this abundance of data is also posing new considerations and challenges to the traditional ways we were use of doing things. From our experience, both in the commercial and the research domain, we have come up with what we call inside internal to access the diamond process. And keep in mind that modeling will help you gauge all the perspectives of data. Last but not least.