[0.0s - 29.0s]
So hello everyone ladies. Gentlemen, fellow data enthusiasts, I am really happy to be here. Thank you all for being present and taking time from your busy schedules will be here. I would also like to extend my thanks to the organizing Committee for inviting us over to present some of our activities and vision regarding data driven innovation. I'm at Demetrius facilities. I represent the innovation unit of which I have the pleasure to be the director in access and over the next few minutes I'm going to share some information with you on our activities and how we go about into leveraging data to create value for businesses and organisations.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So the structure of the presentation is as follows. We're going to briefly refer on a process that we've got. Developed in within Axis in order to take advantage of data and big data in specific. And then we're going to see some paradigms in security, health and the finance domain. We're going to refer shortly to some of the challenges of this shift that is taking place, and then I'm going to leave you with three simple rules for you 2 to keep after this presentation.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Few words about access and who we are. We are software house that was established in Athens 25 years ago and over the years we have grown to become one of the leading software vendors in Greece and now we operate our own offices in London as well and we've got operations and projects being delivered in more than in 16 countries as we speak. Our vision is to transform the state of play in the enterprise software business by removing. The inherent complexity in the traditional high costs, and in that sense deliver value to the people that we serve by helping them to engage in intelligent action.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Under this light or innovation activities are also focusing on how we can extract value by improving the software that we're building and by leveraging more an more of the data and the ample information that is available currently, our focus, our innovation activities are organized around 4 strategic islands of excellence, with the core being around data technologies which is used as a workhorse to fuel innovation in vertical domains. Such as security. Thank you ICT for health and creativity and learning. This helps our company to identify new parts for new product development, new service development and of course market introduction in new business development. So.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So in the era of the abundance of data that we're currently living in, more and more opportunities are becoming apparent for businesses to grow and new paradigms to take place. But the most important things is that this abundance of data is also posing new considerations and challenges to the traditional ways we were use of doing things. So there are a couple of questions that need to be asked here. So how does someone go about to reap and sustain the benefits? Coming from all this wealth of information and data. And.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
From our experience, both in the commercial and the research domain, we have come up with what we call inside internal to access the diamond process. So how can you process data and get it from the abundance that resembles the availability of carbon in nature and structure it so that it becomes as valuable as a diamond? So it all starts with a six step with stepwise approach that consists of six specific stages and ensure that is processing data visualization, modeling, mining, then modeling and then results optimization and results validation. But let's get.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
A bit more specific, how do you extract the value that is hidden within data? First of all, you like when you're cooking and you're following a recipe, you must make sure that you've got the right ingredients. You've got the right data that will serve your business objectives. This data might be from within your organization, but these days it might as well be from outside your organization, so you really need to leverage that. Then you need to make sure that you do a preliminary visualization of your data and an exploration of your data. This will help you identify potential patterns or clusters within the data and it will give you better understanding of what lies beneath that. It will help you to build a hypothesis on which you later on test and evaluate the results. You're going to get. Then by performing some mining, you're able to see some predictive analysis and results of your data. So there might be shifts in your business that you don't already understand that you don't already know and appreciate, and by doing some mining you can really gain some more insight on that.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Then you need to apply the right model for the data in the business that for the data that you have in the business objectives that you want to serve their different models that could potentially apply to the same datasets, but it's very important that you don't overdo it. And keep in mind that modeling will help you gauge all the perspectives of data. Then allow your data to work for you. Start allowed, give it time to produce the results you're looking for and then try to see where in the process you need to tweak to improve your models or to improve or gain more understanding of what's happening within your data. For example, in the health domain, if in the hospital the staff is observing that specific surgical procedures require an extra re admissions, then they might need to do something about that process. And to improve it. And this can only be done by understanding what lies within the data you have. Last but not least. Take time to assess and reassess your results and make sure that it is clearly communicated how well you're doing with regards to the business objectives that you have originally set out.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
This is an approach that we have created after leveraging our experience in both commercial but also in the research and development domain. And this is true in that we can transfer that into other domains as well. And we do that in access in three distinct cases that I'm going to show you right now. And we do that both for our core business, but also for a areas that we're trying to explore for new product and service development. So let's have an idea on what's the application of this.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
In healthcare, so Europe is facing a big challenge. Demographic change. Aging population imposes a lot of costs in on the healthcare systems of the European countries. At the same time, there's specific shifts happening within the healthcare sector. First of all, technology is advancing rapidly. Transparency and openness of data is something that is being pushed by governments all over Europe and at the same time, data is being digitized. So there's a clear opportunity to leverage these three new patterns. These three new shifts into building next generation health services, and that is seen as a very beneficial. Opportunity since it will allow to achieve economies of scale, but most importantly it will help with providing the specific health care service to the specific patient. It will reduce the variation in healthcare service that we currently see among the different Member States in the European Union. At the same time, which is also quite important, it will help achieve new strides in terms of medical clinical research.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Let's see where data comes from in the healthcare sector. So you've got clinical data, medical records, medical images and so on and so forth. You've got health claims and costs coming from governmental organizations, hospital health care centers, ministries. You've got pharmaceutical research and development data or even medical data like the information we showed in the we saw in the previous presentation. But most importantly, we've got patient behavior. We've got unstructured information that they're coming from our patients that we monitor in real time, and this can be about attributes regarding their lifestyles, weather. Do the exercise. What type of diet their own, and so on and so forth. And in our view, it is the intersection of these four. Datasets, large datasets where innovation and new opportunities really exist.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Let's take an example of one of the projects we're currently coordinating under the auspices of the European Commission and it's about personalized healthcare. So what we see here is an end to end service and platform that caters for the needs of patients suffering of comorbidities. So in specific, here we see someone that's suffering from diabetes but also asthma and the platform we're developing is allowing for both the patient. The doctor, the care that the nurse, and the informal carer to really know at any point in time what is really happening and to adjust the therapy and remedies for the specific patient. But all this knowledge that is being generated in real time is also kept in repositories and can be used to improve the therapy and the strategies for later cases.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Let's see what's happening in the security domain.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
We all know that the shifts there are even stronger at the top of the European agenda is protection of border. The safety of citizens and the protection of critical infrastructure at all costs. Which means that in the effort to perform all that public protection and disaster relief activities are becoming more and more data intensive and data hungry. So crisis management and a lot are imposing new challenges to the existing. Ways we did things in the past. So as our operations and procedures are becoming more and more data centric, we need to know more about who, what, when and where an all. This is coming from an extremely diverse set of sources of information, so you've got all.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Types of data coming from all types of data sources, so you can have legacy infrastructure, for example in a highway you can have CCTV, but at the same time in critical infrastructure you might have a simulator along with the CCTV set, but also wireless sensor networks. And what's more important, you are getting a lot of ad hoc systems, unmanned aerial vehicles, unmanned ground vehicles, satellite imagery, spatial information, wearable and portable datasets. First responders nowadays are being equipped with state of the art equipment to assist them in their operations in the field. Crowd source, context content. Talking about unstructured information. This is key to it. Free text, pictures, videos, sounds, location, all that. So this really satisfies the low. Let's say of the three V's velocity, volume and variety that constitute big data. But most importantly, since we're talking about safety critical application and such a very important domain. I would like to introduce the 4th V alarm not refund of VIS. In that sense, veracity, how do we know that the data we are getting is truthful is valid and we can really use it to enable intelligent action?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Let's see this case. We've all been to malls. We're all pretty much using the underground. Probably some of us are football fans, so we've been to stadia and so on and so forth. So we're currently building a system to support real time crowd evacuation operations. To secure that people that are being evacuated are getting to the safe place in the shortest possible time with at least possible victims, how do you do that? You need to aggregate all sorts of information that you've got in your hands. You've got information coming from all sorts of sensors, but you've got a lot of information coming from the actual crowd that is being evacuated. So what you need to do there is to apply the right mix of technology, know how and expertise. In order to build a platform that is going to be equally important for the crisis manager so that they know how to operate, how to prepare and how to respond to these types of events that are really hard to manage for the first responders, so that they know where to go, what to do, who thereafter, who they're trying to save, and also for the civilian for the citizen, the citizen needs to feel at the sense of security, and this can be done. In many, many ways, by leveraging the data that we've got in our hands. Last but not least, the financial.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Sector, which is our core business sector.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
The advances in the mobile Internet and the cloud services are really pushing financial institutions to change the way they were doing business so far. Of course, we have to keep in mind that financial institutions have traditionally been been silos of data, so these guys are really learning now how to use this data into performing new product development or new service development.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So let's see where that can apply customer data monetization. Financial institutions can become more user centric. They can predict how the shifts in the behavior of the consumers of their customers are going to take place and when, and they can adjust their policies or their products or their offerings, their services, the marketing campaigns, what have you in good time. And that means that it would help a lot with retaining their customers and that's. Really is a big opportunity for financial institutions, especially regarding the first competition they're facing. At the same time. It is very good for them because they are able to manage the risk and their exposure. And since financial institutions are have very stringent operations and standards to apply to, it also helps them to gain insight on how efficient they are and how well they applied to all these regulations and standards.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
This is our flagship product. It's a product that helps banks, Public Utilities, telecom operators to reduce their risk and exposure by managing their delinquent payment payments portfolio. To achieve that, we need to aggregate all sorts of services and to leverage all sorts of data that come from within the institutions themselves, organisations themselves. But also nowadays we're shifting into trying to leverage data outside of those guys. So what's the benefit for the clear benefit for these types of organizations? First of all, they can improve the under efficiency. They can reduce their exposure to the delinquent delinquent payments portfolio, but most importantly, they can safeguard their brand image that can achieve sustainability and they can help themselves to become even better in retaining customers, an understanding what their needs and merging attributes are going to be.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Just before I conclude my presentation. It is important that we establish an information culture. When dealing with data management and trying to exploit the value hidden within data, so there are five steps that we have identified, 5 parameters that we need to think about. What data do we really need? Where are we going to find it? How valid and trustworthy are? Is this data that we have? What about security? What about ethics and privacy? Who owns the data? How well is that data protected, and how does it abide with associated and ethical boundaries? What are the competence competence is needed? We talked about yesterday about the emergence of the data scientists and new competences that we need in order to leverage all this newfound wealth. So what does that impose in terms of training curricula or at the educational system? Overall, last but not least. Since it's not just a matter of doing an offshoot, but it's more a matter of are instilled mentality, integrate that with the organizational processes within each and every company or organization.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
General. So with these three simple rules, I would like like to leave you and let you go to lunch and the abundance of data that we have been talking about this last two days can really become an opportunity for your organization only when you ensure the data sets, quality and blend, you get the right expertise on board. So you don't just need a software engineer, you need to go and transcend beyond that level and also try to inform. Strict operations and govern governance across your organization in order to ensure that you conform and comply with the previous requirements. Thank you very much.
