[0.0s - 29.0s]
I parish is very important becausw. Obviously, when you when you work on. Lexicographic resources There is a lot of time, also money involved. So we also say that in the grant order in the proposal, we said that. Literally literally hundreds of person years are invested in that kind of resources, so it's really important that whoever owns it or did it. Knows what will happen with the data. And this is one of the.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Tasks inside Work Package 6 in Alexis. Which is solving Copyright and legal issues. And well, this effort goes together also with something that goes on, including in click. So legal issues committee. But the real real problem real question is that lexicographic data is traditionally even less accessible than computational linguistics data. So what can we do about that? And.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
This work will have to be done in this year, so from now until. January or February. 2020 and this is also why we organized this event or asked observers to join. Because we need feedback, we need feedback from observers. What can be done? What can't be done? What is actually possible, what is not possible, and so on. And we have a delivery deliverable at the end of the second year. Recommendations on legal and IPR issues for lexicography. Um? With the emphasis on possible measures enabling Open Access. Open Access to everything that is done in lexicography is not possible. This is all. This is what we know already. But what we don't know is. If there are parts of the data that can be Open Access. And one the first Test of this. Was actually the. Observer agreement. I will explain this a bit later. Um?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And 1st as you saw. In cross presentation we asked around the consortium. So what is actually legal status of your data and a lot of answers that we got is. Basically, we don't know we own it. And that's it. And we don't know if we actually can give some part of the data. Under Open Access or we can't. What can be done about it? And this is basically the task that we have in this. Well. 6.2. We have to find that out.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And as I mentioned before. This is the test that we already. Did. So we asked all those that participated as observers or applied for observer status. Can you give us at least the lemma list as Open Access data? Because as I said before, we can't do anything about it or link it if we don't have that information. And well, we have 25 or something signed. Observer agreements already that we will decide on tomorrow. With description of data that is there, so this is the first Test we will be able to see what kind of data is there and how well and the lemma lists we know that are available because it's signed agreement.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Earned. Well, this part. I already covered in fact and.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Basically the most important. Slides in this very short session. So in the Reds lemma, list and post, this is what is obligatory. But also we have this data model which includes important parts that we want to identify in various dictionaries such as. Sentence structure. Or definitions or multi word expressions or examples or collocations or something else that is there. So if we identify it through TI like 0. Model or then we can also link it, but to link it has to be available. So this is the really the question. I mean it's a difficult one because the more you give actually, the more you get becausw. Your senses can be linked. Not just lemes. But to for us to be able to do that, we need access to that data. So this is the task of the the committee that we formed for IPR issues. To propose either 2 consortium partners and two observers, what is possible and get feedback in this year? So would be, would it be possible? For instance, I will just well make up few examples. What if we just take parts of your data? Is that like hurtful for you? Do you think that it will be abused? So you provide sense structure without the examples you provide examples without the same structure. You provide definitions, parts of definitions. And this one is a good one from the bottom becausw I will tell you something. I was working in lexicography well for the traditional lexicography for 11 years. In the 90s, and then I moved to two more, let's say. Language, Technology world and suddenly I started to hear about bag of words, bag of words backwards. Like what is that? You can't just deal with bag of words, but in language technology it's an important concept. You just take what is there. The words without the sequence. So if you can imagine the thing like. The definition a dictionary definition. We can actually use it if we just have the words that are used in definition. Not the definition itself. So that's one possible scenario. Also of all possible scenarios that are available. So this is what you will get. Questions like this. If you provide the data. And. I will this is the last slide in this session, but there may be questions so. So. If you have questions about this particular topic. Please raise your hand. Yes. Yeah.
