So the topic I'm going to talk about is the social signal value of emotions, the impact of context culture, and basically there's a problem there because. 1st about why does context matter? Appraisal theories of emotions assume that when something happens, like let's assume this pair here is not at the San Diego Zoo where took its picture, but it's out. And then we have coping potential. Have gone or some ideas about who is that person, but also obviously about the situation. Now even adult cries when the ice cream fold of the cone. So this is some element of encapsulated meaning. It's what Lazarus called correlational. The adult starts crying. And this process is influenced by the cultural values of the individual goals of the person. There's also the pattern matching that I was talking about. And here we have to think about the types of context. By the time we are adults, we are more or less reasonably good at doing this. And the other is the social cultural expectations. And that is a form of pattern matching. This angry person is suddenly someone who cares about the fact that harm was done. So depending on the context the very same emotion can expression can signal completely different. This idea because look at this in capsule is a cute little encapsulated meaning thing. There is an encapsulated meaning in emotional expression and that is the main reason why up to now, for the last, I don't know how many years we have been very successfully looking at emotion expressions without looking at context, because emerging expression actually do have an encapsulated meaning that is the core meaning, that is the correlational team, that's what they mean. So we say, well, this person just got some very good news. OK, people have very good news. In this case knowledge about the motives of the people. So first of all, certain contexts that interpret differently in different cultures, yes, something may be very rude in one culture and not rude at all in another, yes. Then we have the issues of holistic versus and analytical perception. And then I have the cultural display rules that I had just mentioned. The rules that pre and proscribe certain emotions. How acceptable is it to show an emotion in a context? And so why do we care? Increases optimism about success and helps us to redress interested. For instance, the process of learning about a norm violation. But then you have the cultural difference, which depends on how well you learn the norm. Let me look at these things, then we'll see that we have a relatively complicated thing where emotion perception, cultural norms, and context. Emotional facial expression signal an underlying states, the emotion. And these days there's a lot of people and say, well, emotions don't really signal anything's perceived motion. Facial expressions don't signal anything per say. What do emotional facial expressions signal? Because they're signal all of these things. Because emotions, the underlying state that creates a facial expressions, emotions actually or something that's there to solve problems. I mean, from a evolutionary point of view, we emotion expressions are sort of useful things. I mean, Darwin said they're useful for two types of reasons. And because you do that, that's useful. So the idea is that emotions motivate behavior that solves evolutionary problems.