Who are what is making decisions? Now another way around from the human to artificial intelligence. Expert, the user, the human decision-making in order to make decision systems or decision support systems better than just using pure AI. So normally in decision analysis, what is done is purely human, so we have human experts, human decision analysts who develop some kind of models and then they used to these to the evaluation of decision alternatives. It doesn't work so well, so you have data you use some data mining, developer model and then you embed. That I'm a big proponent of, and I think it can be much better in some specific problems like in medicine is to combine the data mining approach so data mining is important. To make a kind of a decision or an overview of which technologies for production of electricity of electricity to use in Slovenia. The main idea was to help Parkinson's disease patients. There is one database called PMI which is very highly regarded in this in this area and the idea was, well let's let's take a look at tech data mining, develop decision support models embed that into that system and we will get a very good advice to the patient whether or not to change the medication. It will be about human decision-making and whether or not the artificial intelligence can help. And then on the basis of this data, you would like to decide, make a decision whether or not to change medication becausw in Parkinson's disease medication soon becomes ineffective soon. So this was a real application and actually an application for the Doctor was developed not by us but by University of Yanina in Greece. I used decks as a showcase with some examples, but my main message is that artificial intelligence methods can be very well used not to make systems that will. The principle is based on Multicriteria decision modeling which is having. Which usually has some kind of a hierarchical structure and involves performance variables like price, performance, quality and other things. Designed with this multicriteria decision analysis in mind, but bringing in bringing in ideas that emerged in artificial intelligence, like the idea of expert systems representing knowledge with if, then rules, handling, imprecision, uncertainty, transparent models, and we.