[0.0s - 29.0s]
So to put in context, to put my presentation in the context I will. I would like to begin with the word decision support or decision-making and 1st ask the question.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Who are what is making decisions? And obviously we get two branches here. One is that we have a human decision maker who makes a decision and all of us are decision makers and then we are also talking about decision systems. So computers, robots and other systems that make decisions and the right.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And site has been already presented today to a big data, great depth. Like all these exciting systems like robots, probes, robots, autonomous cars and so on.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
My presentation will be on the left hand side. It will be about human decision-making and whether or not the artificial intelligence can help. Human decision makers maybe make better decisions or make better systems and vice versa as well. Can humans, human expert expert? Make artificial systems better.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And I will use a system called X which is a showcase which is a software that we have developed at Toyota Steven Institute and we're using it extensively in decision support applications so.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Just what is Dex? The principle is based on Multicriteria decision modeling which is having. Decision situation, so you have several alternatives with from which you can choose one or you wish to rank them. The basic idea is that you develop some kind of a model. Which usually has some kind of a hierarchical structure and involves performance variables like price, performance, quality and other things. And then you use this model to evaluate these alternatives and eventually alternatives that got that are evaluated favorably are probably selected at the end, but also very important feature of such models is that you can use them for analysis. What if analysis what would happen if we change something? If we lose 1 alternative if we. Add another alternative. This is a common approach. This is not really directly connected with artificial intelligence.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
However, Dexes an idea was. Designed with this multicriteria decision analysis in mind, but bringing in bringing in ideas that emerged in artificial intelligence, like the idea of expert systems representing knowledge with if, then rules, handling, imprecision, uncertainty, transparent models, and we. It also turns out that machine learning is very useful in this process.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So just using a toy example which is shown everywhere, like if the decision problem was to choose a car to buy a car, then we usually develop a kind of a criteria structure. For instance car depending the quality of car depending on the on the price, buying and maintenance price and the number of technical characteristics of which I'm showing here, only fuel consumption, safety and comfort. And once you have such a model, then you put in data about cars. And then there is some aggregation mechanism that evaluates your cars. One or more cars. And this is a common idea. This is there are many methods that support this kind of stuff.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The X is a method. I said it brought in some concepts of artificial.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Intelligence, for instance, is a qualitative method, so it uses words rather than numbers to express these qualities. It also brings in something that is probably too rarely considered in artificial intelligence and machine learning. The idea of preference, the idea of dominance.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And that the aggregation procedure is defined by some kind of rules which are usually represented in a decision table, and this decision table is normally created by human decision maker. People who are responsible or less possible car owners here in this case.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So what is the X? These are the main characteristics. If I want to number them or so it's multi attribute. It's hierarchical. You have a tree, organized models, then it's qualitative and its rule based. And if somebody is interested in a more formal representation definition of the method, there's a.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Relatively recent paper where you can get all of these things described and even in informal mathematics and some ideas.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Further extension of the model of the method. This is dxy. Dxy is a software that supports this method. It is used for. This is not artificial intelligence. In principle, this is a tool used by people and tool four people, and these people can create models defined decision rules define alternatives and do a lot of analysis. Here I would like to mention that there are also some other tools outside of Dixie, which allowed to once you develop a model. To take it and embed it, put it into some other system like information System Decision, support system or solved, and these tools are listed here, and xes are. Inch is also a toll free to use.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So let me just reflect on with what I had begun this presentation. So can a I method play any role in this process? Just briefly, the answer is yes. In this showcase index.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
There's a number of points in which artificial intelligence methods are used to obtain knowledge rules. The structure from human decision maker. For instance, there is a some kind of, let's say interface, which not only takes. Opinions from the human human expert or human user, but also also helps the user in formulating these rules in many different ways, like keeping keeping track of the consistency of rules, imposing dominance and some other thing. This is.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
For instance, an interesting application of machine learning that was mentioned today several times. Once you get a table of decision rules, you can apply some kind of a machine learning algorithm. Here. It's a rule rule learning algorithm which simplifies this table and give something that is probably more explainable more easy to understand for the human, so that the human user gets feedback of what has been entered into it.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
System. Something that hasn't been mentioned today in machine learning is very important to find out which features which data items are more important than others. You have different measures for that. Informative iti information gain and Gini index and some other things. So also in this process of acquiring knowledge from the human decision maker, it is very important to be able to identify important features and again giving back feedback to the user of what is important and what happens. If you change the importance of some stuff. Anne.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
At the end end part you get a lot of methods which some of them are also based in artificial intelligence for the analysis. For the explanation of alternatives and so on South.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
The arrow from the right to the left. Somehow there are some points which show that this is possible. Now another way around from the human to artificial intelligence. Today there were many public presentations saying hi, you have some data. You apply some algorithm and you get something. So the question which I'm posing here and I have some evidence that it is worthwhile, at least in some applications, is can we put in the. Expert, the user, the human decision-making in order to make decision systems or decision support systems better than just using pure AI.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So normally in decision analysis, what is done is purely human, so we have human experts, human decision analysts who develop some kind of models and then they used to these to the evaluation of decision alternatives. So the approach that we often use that we combine artificial intelligence machine learning with human. Let's say designing expert modeling of the system is OK. This is the.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Well idea that was presented already today. It works in some areas very well in some other areas. It doesn't work so well, so you have data you use some data mining, developer model and then you embed. You take that model and embed it into a system that makes decisions. The approach.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
That I'm a big proponent of, and I think it can be much better in some specific problems like in medicine is to combine the data mining approach so data mining is important. I don't want to be understood that I don't like this or that this is not important. It is extremely important that you have some data and then you can do some data mining on there that you understand what's going on in the data that you see the patterns and so on. But don't forget. It's also very important that you bring in people who at least should understand of what we have got here to look at it to be to explain it, to see the rules, and possibly make it better and only then.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Embed it into some kind of decision support system.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Now the second part of my presentation is about applications, so I will show 2 let's say. Some bigger applications of this approach, but here I know that this slide is probably difficult to read, but I wanted to put here all the items, all the areas in which this methodology decks and Dexion some pre predecessors of dxy were used, so I can claim that for each of these areas for each of these items which are on this slide, we have at least one example of an application. And many of those are published, reported. So if anybody is interested in any kind of this kind of applications, at least we have me, my group, and some. Some of colleagues have experience in at least one use case in this areas for this.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Station I chose 2 two cases. Recent relatively recent case cases. This one is I think, OK this was done in a few years ago, but if you remember political debates about the energy nuclear power plants in Slovenia and so on, it's pretty, let's say interesting. Even today, however, the project was done a few years ago. The idea? So the problem was to evaluate. To make a kind of a decision or an overview of which technologies for production of electricity of electricity to use in Slovenia. So this was Slovenian project.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And it was a long story, but this is for instance OK against probably very difficult to reach it. So I wanted to just to show the extent of the models that we typically develop for such large cases. So this was one of the two models that was developed developed too. Evaluate electricity production technologies and here is rationality, feasibility, uncertainty connected with the technology. And then we have a number. It's more than 60 different factors which are. Which are taken care in this model? The important point which I would like to meant to say is that once you have, this was not artificial intelligence guided. There were some statistics which contributed to this model, but this model was primarily done by experts in electric energy production and environment and citing and this kind of with this kind of background, the point which I would like to make is that once you have such a model. Then you can take it, put it into a disc.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Support system and this is a web page that was developed at that time. It's still working. Someone can try it. The idea of this web page is that behind there this model for evaluating technologies and then the engine of this decision support system runs the situation in Slovenia from the years as you see 2015 to 2010. Fifty predicting taking some predictions of the amount of consumed electrical energy. And evaluating the situation as it will come after implementing some strategies like building hydropower plants on the River, Sava building the new nuclear power plant and so on, and the green number generally represent some good situation and the red value represents something pretty bad and one of the findings of this project was that actually whatever we do now we are already very late because the situation is in terms of technology and some other criteria. Not really advantages for Slovenia, so this is 1 use case. It was decision support without much of artificial intelligence that it was used in some points of the process.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Now another example, which I would like to highlight is in medicine is it was an EU project called PD Manager and PD stands for the Parkinson's disease. The project has hit many goals. The main idea was to help Parkinson's disease patients. Where there are many problems with that one is that the doctors they come to a doctor very. Insufficient number of times. I would say every three months or every half a year and they are evaluated and then the doctors say if they need to change in therapy, treatment and so on. So the idea was to help these people to monitor their state more frequently and give some kind of an intelligent feedback back to the patient to caregivers and to the specialist. And.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
The original idea of the project was wow. It's nice. We have a lot of very good databases about how doctors were deciding on real patients, so there's a lot of data about that. There is one database called PMI which is very highly regarded in this in this area and the idea was, well let's let's take a look at tech data mining, develop decision support models embed that into that system and we will get a very good advice to the patient whether or not to change the medication. Actually this is not advice that you would give to a patient, but rather forward it to the doctor and doctor is the one who should decide.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Soon it became that yeah you can. It is very useful. It it was great. We learned a lot when we datamined those databases. But the result that we were getting were not sufficiently good, so it was necessary really to put in experts to guide us to see us. Where are the problems in the data where the problems in the model models and to improve the models?

[899.0s - 928.0s]
So the idea, for instance, one thing that we did here is that you have a Parkinson's disease patient. You get some data about about the patient like symptoms, tremor, difficulty of walking, difficulty of eating, and so on. And then on the basis of this data, you would like to decide, make a decision whether or not to change medication becausw in Parkinson's disease medication soon becomes ineffective soon. In some given interval of time, it's quite often that you have to change the medication and how to change the medication. And we developed a series of models here. The point which I want to make is that for instance.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
This was a hierarchical model for. Changing the care plan based on some diagnosis diagnosis which are known for the patient, and these were the rules which were defined by one of the experts we worked with several international experts from Italy and Greece. And this was.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So this was the same setting with rules defined from data by data analysis. And even though this rules had quite favorable characteristics in terms of classification, accuracy of the numbers which come out actually turned out that. Some of them are pretty ridiculous. They are really not to be trusted. For instance, this one. This number 16 here says that if the patient has dyskinesia, inability of movement and also if the patient has tremor, you don't care about that. For instance, you don't care. I mean this is. I mean, it's impossible to really have this kind of rules in a real decision support system, and applying these rules. So here I think this is a very good notion that every, let's say, artificially developed model should be in some way explainable and controllable by people who know what what is behind.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
This is just to show that showcase that after that, for instance an application. So this was a real application and actually an application for the Doctor was developed not by us but by University of Yanina in Greece. And actually this change model was also used as part as part of this application. A few OK I'm

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Getting to the end, I will skip this.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
One I'm also pretty proud that in our highway system there are also some models guiding the decisions of operators in the operator room. For instance, the decision models which are here are here, for instance, to identify some difficult situation which occur on the highway like bad weather, congestion's and this kind of stuff.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
And this is the last no. I chose to show this pretty complicated tree. Pretty complicated model which was developed as part of 1 European project which is about how to assess different cropping system. This is agronomy so you have a cropping system. We grow food like corn and so on. And then you try to assess ecological impacts of that. I'm showing this pretty hard model to explain becausw. This has led to probably one of the largest. Application areas of this approach, which is in agronomy.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And I can show you a bunch of applications in France, in refram, France. This is National Institute of Agriculture in France is using this approach. I would even say to death and they have.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
They have developed a very high number of models and this methodology. For instance, it turned very successful in this rig.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
And, uh.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Are very important and big application. I would say it's in Norway by a group of people who built decision support systems for what they call offshore installation. This is usually an oil platform. And they have a flotel floating nearby. And this is for the workers who work on this up. Sorry who work on this. Offshore installation and again they have developed very well without any direct connection from with us. The developed excellent models that support this kind of decisions.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
So this is the take home message from what I wanted to say. I used decks as a showcase with some examples, but my main message is that artificial intelligence methods can be very well used not to make systems that will. I don't know guide us and do things instead of us, but also that would support us. Yeah in making decisions, but also don't forget that artificial systems can become much better if you are able to introduce experts. And this goes with explain ability, comprehensive ability, and some other positive characteristics of models. Thank you very much.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Obviously a large part of the presentations today was about machine learning and learning models from from data and this represents, I would say a more traditional approach of knowledge engineering, where you actually extract the knowledge from the Cumans and capturing in this decision decision models. So what work are you aware of going on at the moment on connecting these two approaches and? How do you see development in that area? So I think the main point here is really this explain ability, so I don't think that machine learnings which has been pointed out today that is very useful in some cases like image processing and text processing and so on, so I cannot expect that experts will make very. They can really, so I don't think that expert can make really good models in those kinds of applications, so the machine learning from data. Without much of human involvement is affected too. It will remain there. I my view here is that we should be also aware of the parallel route. And yes there is a there is work going on. I can I can tell about this multicriteria modeling there is a large number of projects which actually employ this. This kind of methodology not not just taxi but other method methodology's from the multicriteria point. However, the big point is I already mentioned is at the end. Once you get to the model. It's of vital importance that you bring in a human expert. To test the credibility, the trustworthiness, the and other, again, I would say properties. I didn't speak about some pretty trivial properties which are which are breached in many models like considering monotonicity. So for instance, if you have a feature that increases and some kind of a decision should also increase with a like a diagnosis of a patient should also increase. With that, the model should have have that property and in many many model this is. Reached so I think this is the key point here. Putting more attention on this evaluation of the quality of models. It's very interesting that you you make some work on decision making on hydropower, in Onsala River, and I'm just questioning. How limited is the model? For example these are they. They are interested only in production of energy, but what are some site negative effects like collecting heavy heavy metals and so on and so on? So the limitations of the model R so. With this model, one of the possible problems is that they contain only what you put in there, and I'm not talking just about human people, but also by data. In data, you often encounter databases that don't record important facts, so when you do machine learning on that, they don't get into your models. So the answer to your question is the limitation of this model is if you find something that is not in this model and is not considered by this one another. Limitation might be that it is not considered correctly, so if you mention this. Did you say this metals heavy metals? I think that too.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Part 2 Apart, this was done somewhere in the ecological parties like land protection and so on, but I don't think that this items were considered explicitly in the model, so. The good point about these models is that you can see what is in there in them, and you can propose other things to go inside, sure.
