Assume we have a symmetric game between two players. Each player receives a payoff depending on strategy selected by him and by the opponent. This is symmetric game, so AIJ is the payoff obtained by playing our wild opponents play J. Now enters the notion of a Nash equilibrium, which is a classical notion game theory and mixed strategy axis is Nash equilibrium if it's a best reply to itself. So technically this means that X transpose X is better than Y, transpose X Pro possible Y. OK, so this means that no player is interested in deviation from from playing X when the other player is playing X. It incorporates the notion of internal coherency and the notion of external in coherency. Well in unweighted graph now it is easy to see that if we agree that the cluster is something which is internally coherent and external incoherent, what we're looking for is the notion of a maximal clique. OK, internally coherent which is not contained in any larger. This is a result by bombs in the in the 90s that there exists a one to one correspondence in the 01 case between maximal cliques of the underlying graph, an evolutionary stable strategies. It can be seen that there exists a one to one correspondence between evolutionary stable strategies and strict local maximizers of. Sure, I would approach makes no assumption on the underlying individual data representation. I can find my dominance. So it's general in this respect no assumption is made on the structure of the similarity Mac, so you can't have a symmetrical affinity's even negative affinity's we don't know to know a priore the number of cluster which is a classical problem because we extract the cluster sequentially. It allows extracting overlapping cluster so and we also can do we got. First question is the sum of the assumptions that are made within the clustering community, especially regarding the dominant the partitioner paradigm, and I thought we should start also also thinking to another question which is as important. I mean, what is a cluster? We have probabilistic model based approaches that allow for overlapping clusters. And actually there are a lot of applications where we do need overlapping clustering by informatics document analysis. A perceptual grouping or, for example, segmentations of images with transparent surfaces and require a few papers. So within the partitional paradigm, the question which is fair to support the important is how can I?