[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good morning everybody. When you know what it's like when the conference organizer asks you to give a keynote and you say it's a big honor, I'd like to do it and Natasha asked me, well, this is a 10th anniversary. Can you use that as a part of the theme of your presentation? And oh, by the way, can you also give me a title? And so by that time you only have the vaguest idea what you want to talk about so you know you have to keep her happy so you give some title and then a few weeks later you get what the French call this. Esprit descaler, which is the ideas you get on the stairs walking up back home, you know all the things you should have said, and then I realized what the title should have been. So the title is not what it says in your program. Something about universal patterns. The title actually is 10 years of semantic Web. Does it work in theory? So what I want to do in this talk is look back at 10 years of our work and I'm not going to celebrate our successes because they are so obvious they don't need to be stressed, it's obvious. 'cause we have done a good job as engineers we have built a really successful very large artifact. But the question for this talk will be have we done any science? OK have we besides building anything? Have we learned anything? Anything that is of a permanent value? Now.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
This is going to be by definition. This is a pretentious talk, right? So it's always at a science conference. It's always pretentious to talk about science instead of just talking science. With some trepidation, I started to talk, and I'm now.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
The only one so Jeff Norton, who is a leading researcher in the database field last year, I think it was at ICD 2010. He also gave a talk about science. In his case it was about the scientific process and how we organize it. And he started with an introductory slide that I thought was very appropriate. So I freely borrowed this slide from him. So what he said was when he announced that he was going to give this talk to a colleague. So the first response we got from a colleague was a cool. I look forward to it and then he said this to another colleague. But then he also explained what he was going to talk about. And then the response was, oh, how are you ever going to make this interesting? And then he tried it on a third colleague and the response was, well, Jeff. You've now reached the age where you're old enough to scratch your butt in public. So go ahead. And maybe the most disheartening, responsible for any he announced his plans to a senior colleague and emeritus. And response was this don't do it giving a keynote anyway means you are a war. Stuff has been so, but notice the floor piece of logic in this right? So even without giving the keynote, you could still be a washed up has been. In that case, you might as well give the keynote as well. So that's the plan. Talking about generic laws, generic laws of science, laws of computer science.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So before I. I can talk about generic laws of computer science. I need to make a philosophical confession, right? I need to explain to you where I stand on this idea of what science is.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So here's my view of science. I'm are what's called in philosophy. A scientific realist, and I'm even a naive scientific realist. Maybe I'm even happy, naive, scientific realist. So what is scientific?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Realism. So here's a quote from the stand for 10 Book of Philosophy. It says philosophical realism is the belief that our reality is also logically independent from what we think. So the reality is independent from our conceptual schemes from our linguistic practices, from our beliefs, right? I believe like any scientific realist does that there is a world that exists out there independently from us and at the task of science is to find the laws. That govern that independently existing reality. And there are other positions you can take, right? So I'm not a constructive IST. So Constructivists, and again, from the. Stand for 10. Book of philosophy. Constructivists maintain that scientific knowledge is constructed by scientists and not discovered. So constructive is claimed that concepts of science are only our own mental constructs. I do not believe it right. I believe that there is a world out there that we can describe. Now clearly you will recognize that realist view over of science and it would apply to Sciences like physics for example, where it's clear that it applies. But how how does it ever apply to computer science? OK, well just as with physics, I believe that for computer science there is an independently existing universe, the information universe, the universe of information, of knowledge of data that is universe is governed by laws, laws about the structure and behavior of.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Formation and knowledge. We can discover these laws. Just as we can discover loads about the physical universe. And just like the physical universe exists independently from us. So does the information universe exist physically? Exist independently from us? Now, of course, the actual objects that we produce our overall making right, so databases, programming languages, but that's not different from physics in the physical universe we construct objects of our own making billiard balls, spaceships, nuclear power stations. But all these things that we construct, they are governed by laws that exist independently from us and in the same way the computer computing objects that we construct. They exist independently. They are governed by laws that exist independently from us, right? And it's our role to discover the laws that govern this universe of information objects. So these information objects for me are real. They are not, just are mental constructs. Now of course it's true. It is the case that these the way that we perceive these laws at any point in history of our scientific progress, that the way we perceive these laws is colored by our own subjective experience. So what?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
We perceive in the universe. Is colored by what we would like to see or by our cognitive limitations and by our cultural biases and even by distortions of our experimental apparatus. But just that these laws that we perceive these laws in a somewhat distorted way doesn't mean that these laws are therefore only are mental constructions, right? It's the role of science is exactly to chip away at these distortions, and to find out what the universe is quote really like. OK. Now, of course, these analogies with physics is a for a computer scientist. This analogy with physics is a bit pretentious because physics is a very mature science and it has a high degree of mathematization and they have these very beautiful formulas. They can write down in a very compact space. And it will be a long time before computer science would ever reach the point where we have such beautiful mathematized laws that you could write down in such a compact way. And in fact, I think that computer science is not like physics at all. Yet computer Sciences and you may not like me for this, but.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
See computer science is more like alchemy. And alchemy, let me explain to you about the alchemy. Alchemy is not just a bunch of medieval fools who were mistakenly trying to turn lead into gold historians of science talk about alchemy as a proto science, right? They were genuinely trying to understand the world around them. They were trying to. They were not even trying to find answers. Maybe they were even trying to just find the questions. Or maybe they were even just trying to find the types of questions that they should ask and they were developing their conceptual schemas. They were developing their experimental apparatus and then over the years this proto science turned into the more mature Sciences like chemistry and physics. And I think it's very telling that the figure, like Newton, was both foundational for modern physics and was an active alchemist, and he thought of himself as an alchemist. So, so I think this is more the state that we are in, but nevertheless let's try.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
In the remainder of this talk. Answer This central question. OK, so did a decade of semantic web work. Did it help to discover any computer science laws? So the only way in which I can answer that question is try to look at some of the laws that we may have discovered, so that's the program for the next half hour or so. Is 2 proposed to you a number of laws that I think our computer science laws and ones that we may have helped to discover? But first we should look at what it actually is that we built, right?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
What is it that we that we built over these last 10 years? Now? I think at a very high level I think we can characterize what we built over the last 10 years in three ways is 3 parts, 3 components.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
If you want. So here's the first one. So we built this whole set of vocabularies and a whole lot of them, and maybe even more than we like, and not just the vocabularies but also the tools that we need to build these vocabularies and the tools that we need to deploy these vocabularies and the applications in which we use these vocabularies but vocabularies are one of the three central pillars of what we built.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The second thing that we built is a whole set of names, so we gave names to everything and we call these names your eyes. This is the house. This is the tree. This is my house is your house and we did this billions and billions. We minted billions of names for stuff. That's the second key ingredient of what we build. And of course, the third ingredient is that we strung all that those vocabularies and.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Names we strung together in a giant network, so I think those three vocabularies names and a giant network are the essence at a very high level of what we built. But and I said this in the introduction, mostly we have been and we are thinking about what we are do.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Doing as an engineering effort, right? We are building this stuff and then we're checking if it works. And in a way it's obvious that it works, so I'm not going to spend a long time. Celebrating our success. Alright, so all you need to do is is I have a slide deck at slide share called Semantic Web. Good news and take a look at those slides and I keep updating them every time. So there are there the stories about how the governments are now using our technology and not just the UK. In the US only anymore. How the BBC is running their World Cup website with our technology, how the Good Relations Ontology is changing the way the retail sector works. How? Schema.org is pushed by the large search engines. How Oracle is including RDF in its primary database product, how the publishing industry is changing with the New York Times, one of the leading lights yesterday in Orix explained to me your project he's doing with electricity to France, where they're generating 300,000 personalized energy saving plans for people every day using. So many web technology, so it's clear that we have been an engineering success. And then the question is. Did we learn any science? And how am I going to answer that question? Well the thought experiment I'm going to run. Is the following.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So let's pretend that the last 10 years were one giant experiment. They were one launched giant computer science experiment.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So this is still we came out of a test tube. It was a. It was a giant experiment. What would happen if you would run that experiment again, right? So we did all this stuff. We designed languages. We build, ontologies we build DB pedia. We built the linked open data cloud. That's a giant experiment. Now what would happen if you would set back the Clock and we would do it all again now? Then some things would turn out the same and some things would turn out different. And it's exactly that difference that I'm interested in. So the things that turn out the same, they must somehow be over crucial, meaning, right? If you run the experiment again and again in some things are always the same, then they say something fundamental about the information universe. Now some things are not very crucial. I mean all are. I give you an example. So all our ontology languages are full of angle brackets. Now I can imagine that if we would run the whole thing again, we wouldn't use angle brackets again. So somehow the use of angle brackets doesn't strike me as a very fundamental law of computer science. At least not one that I could imagine. So that's an incidental choice, and if you run the experiment many times, he would make that choice in different ways, but other features would turn out the same and they would point to fundamental properties. And let's see what I think are some of these fundamental properties. Illustrate what I think computer science laws look like and the good news is that we don't have to start from scratch, so there are some well known laws from computer science and these laws. We can also see that they apply.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
To our field.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So here's one. So this is a zipf law, right? The long tail distribution so. You will notice what does it flow? Say it says that for some in many datasets and for some phenomena of interest, only a very small minority of the elements in your data set are responsible for the vast majority of the phenomenon of interest, and Conversely. There is a vast majority of items that each only contribute very, very little to that phenomenon of interest, and this is a well known law and we have also repeatedly observed it in our own community, and it's well documented by a number of empirical studies. And this phenomenon disip phenomenon is both a curse and a blessing. Of course it's a blessing if you're trying to do compression algorithms, because pretty much all the compression algorithms exploit exactly this feature, but it's occurs if you're trying to do load balancing like we have. Like we've been trying to do in our parallel computing experiments. Then if you try to do load balancing and the load is so unevenly spread, then it makes it very hard. Now that's not the fault of ships log that it's a curse and a blessing. It's just that knowing Zipf law helps you to realize when it is occurs and when it is a blessing. So understanding this low of the information universe helps you to design your artifacts in a better way. I'll give you another example of an existing law that from computer science that also applies to our.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Community. So it's the inverse proportional relation between usability and re usability. So anybody who's ever wrote an ontology knows that there is this tradeoff that you can either make an ontology which is very specific for a particular domain particular task easy to use for that topic, but it's very hard to reuse somewhere else. And Conversely, if you make very generic, very high level top level ontologies, they're very reusable. You can use them across many domains, but at a high cost you really have to work hard every time you're going to use it for a specific case. And of course this is not just true for ontologies. This is true for programming languages, and this is true for. Maybe this is even true for many other engineering facts outside computer science, but this and this is a law that we have also observed. So from now on I'm going to go out on a limb. I'm going to stick my neck out and you can chop it off afterwards if you want, and I'm going to propose some of these laws that I think are more particular to the work of the last 10 year expense.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
OK. So here's one. So the law says factual knowledge is a graph.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So the dominant life form in information space for factual knowledge is a graph. And of course we notice it means that the vast majority of our knowledge is representable as a ground instances of binary predicates. Right and you and they link them up and to get you, link them up and together they form a ground graph. Now this this is obvious to us. It's so obvious that you probably don't even think about it anymore, or something that you need to discuss, but it is not obvious at all to other communities. So for a database person. Ground factual knowledge is a table. And for addition, factual knowledge is a set of sentences. And of course, I know that you can formally translate 1 into the other sort of every every table is a simple graph, and every graph you can hack it into a sufficiently complicated table, and every graph you can write down as a set of sentences. There are the trivial set of sentence is actually an every, but it's not quite true that every set of sentence is easily represented as a graph. So now the question is, well, have this is the real dominant life form, and I know my Bolt days. I think we have. We are right, knowledge is a graph. If you look at these tables from your database people all these foreign keys, they are just a trick to encode a graph in a set of tables. So knowledge is a graph. Well, here's a lesser controversial.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
OK, terminological knowledge is hierarchy. So factual knowledge is a graph. Terminological knowledge is a hierarchy and this is a law.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So that has been rediscovered many many times in pretty much any area of data modeling, knowledge, engineering, knowledge representation, hierarchical organization of types is what people come up with. And of course this repeated rediscovery lends much credibility. Let's much strength to this being real of the information universe. Right? So now I've.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
I've said a bit about terminological knowledge and factual knowledge. So.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
How do they relate? Well, obviously to us terminological knowledge is much smaller than factual knowledge, so the relationship between these two bubbles is actually something like this. Right? And. It's a small hierarchy ruling of big graph, right? And again, this may sound obvious to us, but it hasn't been always this obvious. If you look at the history of knowledge representation pretty much all the work in knowledge representation is going on in the small black bubble, right? It's been about representing generic generic rules, generic types, terminological knowledge, the tee box if you want right, and now it turns out. Our universe is really dominated not by the tee box. Our universe is dominated by the A box. So our knowledge is lots and lots of really boring ground facts, so a lot of the power of our knowledge doesn't come from generic statements which are generically true about the world. Now a lot of the power of our knowledge come from boring binary ground facts about this particular instance of the world. Things that just happened to be true, and I think you could even make a point from cognitive science about this. A lot of our intelligence comes not from being smart in general, it just comes from knowing a lot of stuff. Write a lot of this big graph and actually we can be a little bit more precise about the relationship between the small black circle and the big wide graph.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So here are some numbers that some of you may have seen on the screen yesterday when Young Kapoor Barney gave his talk about distributed backward chaining reasoning and he did the following experiment. He took three of the largest datasets that we know, so LBM is a synthetic data set that you can make arbitrarily large, then linked life data, which is about two and a half dozen large life science datasets semantically integrated. And effect forge, which is a D PDF plus plus, so it's a lot of encyclopedic knowledge. It's DV Pedia plus the Internet movie Database, plus music plus etc etc. Geography, names and so on. And what he did is he said, OK, I'll take the schemas of those things, so the small black circle and I do the full complete forward closure. I compute all the inferences and I see how long it takes and doing the schema closure is measured in the order of seconds. Or a small number of minutes and the second experiment will not only take the black black circle, but enrich it with the big graph and then do the closure over the whole thing and then suddenly the runtime is measured in hours. And by the way, notice that we take here as somehow the measure of the size of these circles, not just counting the triples, but we're taking somehow how complex it is to deal with him, right? So how long does it take to do inference over them? I think that's a more interesting measure of how large these circles should be drawn, and you see that there is a one or two orders of magnitude in difference in size between how much it takes to do inference over the wide graph. Or over the terminological knowledge only. So if we go back to the previous slide.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Right, it was like this. These numbers tell us that this slide should really look like this. So this is how small our terminologies are compared to our factual knowledge and it's very easy to imagine that you would blow up the the factual knowledge that it's very easy to imagine that you make this white graph bigger, but it's much harder to think how to arbitrarily make the black dot bigger, right? There's only so much terminological knowledge that you could possibly want to write down. Right? Water. So the slogan here is a box stupid. That's that's where the power of our representations are. And again, understanding this law helps us to design our artifacts. So it's exactly this insight that helps us to do our distributed reasoning, because we can see that because the closure is so small and the black dot is so small, we can easily replicated across all our computing nodes. It's small, you can keep it in memory everywhere, but that's a crucial key insight from this law that you need to know in order to make this informed design decision. OK. So OK, let's look a little bit more at this notion of how complex this terminology.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Knowledge is right and the next claim is of course that terminological knowledge is not only small, there's little of it compared to factual knowledge, but it's also in.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Low complexity. Right so. When we are looking at something like owl, right owl is is it's it's. It's a strong, highly expressive language, but depending on where you look we either use such a big expressive language or and that happens of course. Very often we only use very small parts of it, right? So somehow there is this unreasonable effectiveness of low expressivity knowledge representation, right? It is much. More effective than you would have expected based on the history of AI research for example. And of course it's nice that we have not only is the small languages that we use a lot of the time, it is nice that we also have the expressive languages for the cases when we need it, and there are cases when we need it, so it's not a 10 distribution. In a way, this is this is in a way its own distribution that the vast majority of. Apologies are very lightweight and then there is a tale of heavyweight ontologies. And it's nice that we can use these expressive parts if we want to enter. Is even a bit more good news there that even though these expressive languages have very scary complexity measures, in practice those scary complexity measures. Those worst case complexity measures don't really hit us in practice, so there was a beautiful talk yesterday. Bye bye student from Manchester. I forgotten your name. Apologies about how to classify highly expressive ontologies very efficiently. Anyway, laughing at the worst case complexity, the real case, the average case complexity is lower, and again this is something useful to know where you are informing your something useful to know when you are designing your artifacts. Knowing that worst case complexity bounds are just that. Worst case complexity bounds, and apparently the information universe is not always worst case.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Now of course, this is a key topic in our community. Is a heterogeneity right and and we know that heterogeneity is.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Avoidable and it's for good reasons that I chose the Tower of Babel as the metaphor for the vocabularies that we write. And I think where something new that we have discovered different from other communities is that it doesn't help to fight this heterogeneity. It's fighting the inevitable. You might as well live with it. You might as well embrace it. And I think embracing this heterogeneity is exactly one of the things that has enabled the rapid growth of the datasets and the vocabulary that we are publishing. So this is again, if you want a slogan. Let's let the thousand ontologies blossom. So.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
But of course, we know that embracing heterogeneity. I mean, that's nice if you're publishing data is not so nice. If you're consuming data right? So if you're consuming data, then you need to somehow solve this heterogeneity. You want to make data interoperable. Now here I'm not sure if I'm a pessimist or an optimist. Because I think this heterogeneity can be solved. But maybe not in the way that we would like to hear, right? So I think most of this solving is not done algorithmically.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Let me explain. So here's the picture that we all dream about it. Bad nights. The linked open data cloud, right? It's carefully handcrafted. Cutest do the hard work that goes into every time crafting this picture. But the picture is also somewhat misleading, unintentionally misleading, but still because it's somehow suggests this nice uniform distributed heterogeneity which is nicely uniformly distributed across the space, right? This is really the let the thousand ontologies blossom picture, but this is not really what a linked open data cloud looks like so. Just a measured.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Last week this is really what a lot of the current linked open data Cloud looks like, right? This was just run off the same data set of the previous picture, but now showing that there's a really high degree of clustering and the next picture is.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Same graph, but laid out in a little bit different way, so it is really heavily lumpy right there. Are there are clusters with lots of links inside the cluster? An very few links between the clusters and how did these clusters come about? Well, they are not. They don't come about by ontology mapping or engineering. They come about by social and cultural and economic processes. So there are in these clusters. There are central nodes. And why are these notes central? Well, why was why is Nomad so central? Well, because it was one of the first ones to be around right? Why will schema dork be so important? Because it carries the weight of 90% of the search market, right? So these are our social, cultural, historical reasons that cause this clustering to happen right? And then inside these clusters you have a good chance of doing ontology mapping and it's necessary then to do algorithmic ontology mapping. And I think the state of the art of ontology mapping. Enables the algorithmic interoperability inside these clusters, but to be honest, the state of the art doesn't allow interoperability between these clusters. We have nothing to say about links between these clusters in the algorithmic way. I think. I wonder if we ever will so therefore my claim, local heterogeneity resolution algorithmically global resolution by culture and economics.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
So for the next point, we should realize that we are not only a semantic web community, but we are a semantic web community, so we will talk about distribution. Right and one of the original dreams of this community was to use the web as a data platform, right? So let's turn the web into a database was one of the dream.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
If you want, but it's actually it's really tough. It's very hot. The web is a very good distributed data publication platform and that has an. It is exactly this distribution aspect that has again allowed us to scale so well. Both the web and the data web. Now that people can publish their data in a distributed way. But this is the same. Distribution puts a fundamental limit on how well we can consume this data and if you look at where the world is going then the world is going towards centralized consumption. So all the main applications. Of so many web technology sucking a whole lot of data, massage it in some way and then do interesting stuff on the centralized data set. And it's not just us. What is Google doing right? Google is using our distributed publication and then doing their centralized computing. What is Facebook doing? It's the same. It's our distributed publication and it's their centralized computing and I don't see how we will avoid being caught by the same. Law, right? The web is a distributed publication platform, but not a distributed computing platform. OK, so if you take that law seriously then you get faced with a problem. Then you have to do centralized computing. And how can you ever do centralized computing on these very large data?

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
That's well, of course parallelization works. Parallelization doesn't always work, but the good news is that parallelization works in our case, so I'll show you graphs again from experiments in our own lab.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
So this is a this graph plots the behavior of a bunch of triple stores somewhere around 2009, right? So they could do inferencing over a small number of billions of triples at the rate of 10s of thousands of triples per second. And OK, there's some little some differences between them, but they're roughly in the same ballpark. They are all run on single machines, big machines but single machines. Then we started to experiment with distribution. And then we suddenly know.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Suddenly in using the Large Knowledge Collider we were we were up there and this is where those single machine applications were right? So there we were way out. It's not because we're smarter, of course not. Is only because parallelization works so well and this was in 2010 and then we worked for a year and more or less the algorithm stayed the same with the engineering became better, and now we're up there. Right, and the single machine applications are still down there. So parallelization works very well. You can ask yourself well, why does it work so well? Well, it works so well because of some of the previous laws right? Cause technological knowledge is small, it's low expressivity. You can do the closure, you can replicate it. Graph knowledge is factual, knowledge is a graph. You can partition it well. So all of these laws somehow they imply this one, namely that parallelization works so well in our case. So then I'll get to the.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
The final. Proposed law knowledge is layered right and. And contrary to the other laws, I think this is a law that we have only been been coming around to rather late in the game. And.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
So we should think not just about our knowledge as a Tower of Babel, but more as a Russian doll construction right? With these dolls inside dolls inside doors and towers inside towers, inside towers. And we could have known this. We could have known is from fields like cognitive science, from logic, from linguistics, from knowledge representation. All these fuels tell you that some bits of knowledge refer to the world. But other bits of knowledge refer 2 bits of knowledge, so you could say that something is true in the world apiece of knowledge, and then you could say something like the certainty of the previous piece of knowledge or the origin of that piece of knowledge or the trust you have in that piece of knowledge. Or the time when somebody stated that piece of knowledge. There's endless of these layers of knowledge, or the trust that you have in the what somebody said about the time when this was set and in our natural language we do this all the time, but our current representation language is a surface very badly in this respect. And it's interesting. Many papers here at the conference they are really screaming for this kind of layering, and they are fighting themselves out of our current representation languages. And for lack of anything better, people are using clutching at named graphs, which is a horrible way to do layering. It's a good way to do partitioning, but it's not the same as layering. And I think being more aware of this law, technology is layered. Would help us in designing better representation languages that better serve the needs of the of the applications.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Right? Final slides we're wrapping up and then we have some time for questions.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
So I'll end with the same slide that I started with. Very impressive professor, but does it work in theory? And of course after this talk, answer is solely what theory? We are not doing a lot of theory. We are not really as a community thinking at this meta theoretic levels we are, we are. We're building stuff. And then we are motivating our choices, but we're not really looking for the universally emerging patterns. And of course, I realize that you met that many of you will disagree with some of the laws that I proposed, and maybe some of you will disagree with all of the laws that I proposed, and in a way I don't even care what I care about is that you start thinking about your work in terms of such laws and whether it's these ones or other ones. That's our joint task to find out. So this is a call to arms if you want for safe or program committees or editorial boards. Now to also be kind to papers who do this kind of in a way meta theoretical speculation or analysis if you want right. Also, we call to arms to you everybody right? So the next time you run your experiments and you write up your papers, try to separate the what incidental water. The incidental choices that you happen to make from the universal patterns that maybe we are together discovering. Thank you very much. OK. So who's asked me if I would be so kind to chair the question and answer session? So. Any questions? And there are microphones around in the room. That's the first question right at the back. So this is an amazing talk. Thank you very much for his great talk and there is one thing that really caught my attention was the web is a distributed publication platform, not a distributed computation platform, right? And we realize that the web now we can see that we have three major search engines and 90% is just one. And I personally think that with the semantic web we can kind of make that computational power for everybody. So I personally don't agree that I would not want to see that the computation is centralized. But will you say it is? Can you give me? Do you have use cases where it doesn't have to be centralized? So so I agree with your point. So I also I wouldn't like it to be that way. It's not necessarily an argument when you're fighting with the laws of the information universe. And it could well be, I think, in the beginning I said that the way that we look at the laws are always colored by our current historical position, right? This was the guy in the distorted mirror, right? And it could well be that might. You can distribute it publishing, but you can't do distributed computing that that is too much colored by the current state of our technology. Now that I'm looking in a distorted mirror, and that's what I'm seeing and that with future developments, either algorithmically or in hardware, that we would free ourselves from this low, that could well be. But the way I see the world now in my distorted mirror. And it's not just me. You know, it's like I say, it's it's it's. Everybody who does anything substantial on the web and also an argument it's centralizing. But it could be the distorted shape of the mirror today. Thank you. Yeah, just for your fitness, we make sure we maximally spread the questions across the room. So Natasha has a question right at the front. So if you sort of continue the parallel with physics, you know the physical laws, their experiments that prove that these laws really hold in nature as far as sort of we can tell, then given time, so for the laws that you proposed to sort of, treat them as a hypothesis that we still need to test it, or do you feel like the 10 years have been really sort of the experiment and we're done, and these are the laws? And again, you know as physics, you know. They change for centuries as well, so this is a polite way of asking do you really believe what you said, right? So of course the politically correct answer is. Any free any formulation of a scientific law is always a hypothesis, even in physics, and just the last weeks. With these neutrinos, we saw that it was true, by the way, only the physicists can make headlines out of a measuring error, but. So yes, they are always hypothesis, and I think these are. They are really hypothetical right? Some of them I believe more strongly than others and some of them have been bit bigger surprises than others. So I think for example I mean the point the first question made. This is a lot of may well law that may well disappear because of changes in technology and instrumentation. I think this idea of the very very very small black dot and a very large big circle. I think that is really saying something fundamental. That we didn't know until 10 years ago. A I wasn't telling us this right. I was in. If anything it was all the work was in a very small black dot. So I think that will be a wonder. I wear really believe the other one. I agree that the distribution would be more tentative. There's a question there. Yeah, well both. I do first two. Yeah OK so in the physical world we could say that almost all the data that we can handle or that we can observe is public. However, in the daytime formation knowledge physical world that you are talking about, there are many layers of privacy and publicness and private Ness of what we can observe. I mean how do you think that? Is there a new law that we have to to consider, I mean. I'm on there, the set of laws that you have proposed or OK, so this is more a question about how we organize the process. Fair enough so. I think maybe even in other Sciences, it's less nice than you think. So if you talk to life scientists and chemists and their data isn't always public. So of course the scientific process would be banned. Would we most helped by having as much data as possible public so that we can all work on this reproducibility that we could run parts of this experiment again and again and again. So of course it's true that it would be helped if all the data or public but also we have to do this in the in the way we've economically organized the world. And sometimes we work with data that has intrinsic value. And it's not for free, but I don't think that will be a maybe a slowdown of the process, but it won't be a block on the process, so I think we'll just have to. Learn how to deal with that, and I think we can. Tom yeah, great talk. Thanks very much so I have more of a kind of badly formulated observation than a question early, which is that you start out by saying that your scientific realist rather than constructive IST. Yes, but I think actually your laws reveal some kind of constructive IST tendencies. Now you have to illustrate that OK, take for example the lovely visualization did about the degree of Inter connectivity between different datasets. Yes, right? I think that reveals, as you put it, some kind of universal laws of the information universe, yes, but I think it also reveals some universal laws of the cognitive universe as well. And what I'd like to see next year is not just to talk about the laws of the information information universe, but the laws of the cognitive universe as they apply to the semantic web. I agree it I agree, and it's so in a way this is the distorted mirror. Again, right? So you're right. This being a realist is hopelessly idealistic position. You could you could never achieve. I guess that's the point you're making the point you're making said, whatever you see is always colored by your cognitive lenses and your cognitive limitations. And not just mine, but ours is a species. So certainly true, but that my philosophical position is that these are just the lenses that distort our view, and on an externally existing or externally existing reality. Thanks. Will continue in the over dinner tonight. Write better place for philosophy. Yes, the. Sure, go ahead. It's more like a philosophical question, and in fact it continues. No, it's a continuation of the previous discussion is that you started with talking about the real realistic. You know aspect of science versus the constructivists. I agree. I mean, I agree with everything you say basically, but then at the end you go towards a call to arms for knowledge about knowledge and that to me is more like a constructive position then. Uh, what you started with? So do you have? I mean I, I agree with pretty much everything you say, so it's also question to myself. Like you know, how do you reconcile the end of the week with the beginning? OK, that's interesting. And Evie were you applauding? You agree with the question.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
OK, so I disagree with both of you then. So because I think that it's really a property of knowledge that so I think of knowledge. I've been trained as well as mathematician and logician. So for me there is this preferential theory of knowledge, so knowledge is stuff that refers to states of affairs in the world, right? But that's only the first layer of knowledge, there are other bits of knowledge that don't refer to states of affairs in the world, but that refer to bits of knowledge that refer to states in the world. I don't think there's anything constructive IST about that. I think that is the way information is really structured. I don't think that is a mental construction of me. I think that's a real observation of how knowledge is. I can see your point of view and I am this is more philosophical opinion than then scientific fact, but I think both of the positions are tenable in a way like so often in philosophy. OK. No. No. Yeah. OK, I see a point, I'd not sure you have convinced me. I'm not sure I have convinced you. Me to the question. The yeah yeah OK. Wonderful talk that sort of tries to ground us a very nice. Possibly of what you tried to tease out is maybe colored bit by what is the past, but if you observe or at least in this one instance. In the web we started with few people creating data and now everybody's in Web 2.0 and user generated content can create the data so you know the same thing might possibly happen with the computation that as you see human being involved in the computation, everybody is connected and in fact every that means every node is actually computing load that can do computation. I in that sense, I would posit that perhaps we are going towards really distributed computation. OK, that was not possible before. OK, so let me rephrase what you said, just to see if I understood it right. So you say, well, we now think of computation is something that happens apart from us. It's in a machine, but maybe we should rethink this idea of computing as a social technical system where humans are in the loop and this is now beginning to happen. And I know that you are also active in this space and what you're saying is, well, maybe if we have this. These other view on what computing is. Then maybe it will also drastically change our view on some of these laws. Is that correct roof raising absolutely? And I think that that form of computation is likely to be much, much more powerful as we go on fine. Yeah, I mean, I agree. So this would be a good example of how the alchemists really had to radically change their conceptual schemas just by throwing stuff together in different ways. So yeah, I I can well imagine that that would happen. I think it's a good example. There's maybe time for one more question. There's just a one row in front and then. So we never look that side. OK, OK, fine. So this was half of the questions then we do the you're right. OK, so please go ahead. OK so so you said so you are seeking the celery in it, but the other hand so you also mentioned the regulator geniuses resolved by socially or in culture. It just means so assume so the semantic web. So going to not so like so physical or social science. Economix, but in this sense there is successful in economies that a lot of school like so different theory and so they they always discuss. Yeah, there's a very nice link between your question in the previous one, so it's not just about involving individuals in the loop, but also involving societies in the loop and culture. And I think this is a nice part of web science is that we cannot. We must look at the web also with the social science glasses on. So yeah, I think that's a. That's a good point. OK, so there were questions there that I badly forgot. I've only had a question. OK, so yeah, I think it's a very good point. Who is the question over there now? I'm sorry I have to stop. He gets the last question. Trust Chris right? So one of your laws was knowledge is a graph. Knowledge is a graph, yes, but it seems to me there's lot of kinds of knowledge that is clearly not a graph like experiential knowledge. You mean knowledge, that's a graph is a graph or. See trust Chris for misquoting you and trying to catch you out. I said I said factual knowledge is a graph and that's I. That's already more circumscribed. Are you defining factual knowledge? Well? How about we do this over the coffee break, OK?

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Thank you very much.
