Another application is about a bridge management. So the objective of this method is to design and to develop algorithms and software in order to reduce the heavy traffic effects on bridges and to avoid bridge overloading to decrease infrastructure maintenance costs and increase the bridge lifetime. K. So we built a full bridge vehicle interaction simulation using a trends and fund element analysis so. What we see here is the diagram in comparison of the static loading of a truck going over the bridge and in blue we see the dynamic influences and these comparison is called the dynamic amplification factor and these are dynamic amplification factor is different for different bridge types for different speeds for different vehicle types and for different loading. We used several bridge models for reinforced concrete plate, prefabricated guarder steel orthotropic deck and such with different spans. And the impact of different HTV models we see here in the green line on the left is the Northern European truck in comparison to the blue line, which is the middle European truck with different speeds. And on the right side we see on the steel bridge that although we have this effect of the higher of the higher loading, not having such heavy dynamic amplification, there is still there is still an impact of heavy load trucks on dynamic amplification. And the aim of the questionnaire is to specify drivers understanding in the context of experimentation, and to define the message. Do we have to be to post on the traffic sign? So you have three points PS11PS12 and PS13 with the specific instrumentation we can measure in this site speed we can measure the enter vascular time. We can detect the category of the vehicles, small or light or heavy vehicle we can detect also the speed variation between PS12 and. This this site and we have a lot of sensors, electromagnetic loops. To calculate the effect on bridge is extremely good effects and fatigue damage and VMS or fix it fix it signs to inform driver about action to be taken. The distance covered in two seconds, so is about 50 meters is the minimum spacing according to the driving lower, so we choose 70 meter becausw. 70 is sufficient or useful for you. For the experimentation, we have two steps. We thought panels is just the reference in order to better estimate revolutionalized drivers behaviors. So we have no panels. And the second step now is with panels in January 2009, from 2012 until 30 January. The results before the indication there is words from the first experimentation we have about 4000. So in the PS12 we have 336 thousand tracks. We have 4000 of heavy lorries don't respect the gap or 50 meters I am. And after the indication we have here we calculate here all the the data. The data analysis shows that some drivers don't respect the entire vascular time of two seconds between 2 liter acres and the 50 meters between heavy lorries by the driving low, so that is our role mark, so I don't know what doesn't mean, but is the result of the experimentation a significant number of driver? We remarked from this analysis that the Church has their behaviors and other remark or recommendation or conclusion that the two measurement series were not successive in the time the first the first was in 2008, December 2008 and the second the September 2008, and the second was much more after in January 2009. So if we want to have the same traffic we have maybe to do it successively in time, the installation of the traffic management system to regulate speed and spacing needs deployment. Of high technology Information Services, the lawful framework must be simplified in order to be better comprehensible by the drivers, and we think that the cooperation with the European administration must be reinforced because if we are with the drivers from. Poland drivers or from Hungarian? Or it's not the same than French or German one and. Is able to generate traffic configuration and to define management strategy. He has a lot of characteristics here. Song from the algorithm caster or from the sensor screamed at our vehicle files. And see here the traffic micro simulation program. Software can calculate that using the traffic and the influence line, which is the characteristics of the bridges. In order to calculate the timing story of considered node effects and record recorded traffic loads, he can identify the local Maxima and minima of the signal he killed.