So thanks to the organizers for giving me this opportunity to share with you our experience from the Kingdom of Bahrain. Also, we didn't forget the Sustainable Development Goals, so this is all aligned with that and I'll show you this when we're going to talk about it. Is it important indication and as a result of this project now or our schools how what we say the basic infrastructure of networking devices and softwares? Plus we trained teachers whatever we introduced in schools, software, hardware, we do training first so we don't introduce any device without a training. Concentrate more on the human being because we believe that our city, of course, can provide innovative and sustainable solutions for smart, sustainable development model, especially as our city is a driver for innovation and comprehensive for talking about transformation as old. While I want to do this because we want to empower our students and this is the name of the further the project, digital empowerment in education. So we want our students to be productive and lifelong learner. We want to prepare them for the digital life because this is what is coming. If we look at the digital empowerment stage of our project, it is concerning more on the student empowering the student. And of course the empowerment within the educational leadership in the minification. We have also another important project into this program which is the ICT mentorship and this is really important because it concerns on the pedagogy which is really important and we have also another project which is a safe use of technology because. Content and from this will start the story of the open educational resources because we believe in our strategy that content can be from different resources. So if we look at this DG, we all know I think we repeated this many times today and yesterday it's about ensuring the inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. And to do that. As we all believe that open educational resources can enhance the access to educational opportunities, both for formal and informal Switcher. So I'm kind of Bahrain. In fact they have free education is for all other Bahraini or non Bahraini in public schools and also we have compulsory basic education and our offer. Different services as other many countries with building and you attractive, friendly with digitally equipped schools, we have free buses transportation. We have free textbooks and also we integrated special needs in schools by offering them even transportation and even scholarships. So with the help of UNESCO will work together and we established an international conference and as a result of this we had a national project called King Hammer.