[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon everyone. I am really glad to be here with all of you and this important event to learn and share ideas. So thanks to the organizers for giving me this opportunity to share with you our experience from the Kingdom of Bahrain. So. Al

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Just go directly to the topic I was asked to talk about today, which is about designing holistic or your policies for achieving the sustainable development goal for. So if we look at what we've done in the Kingdom of Bahrain, we looked at the policy of open educational resources from the bigger picture. So what we've done, we saw it as part of what we have in the content strategy, and also what we have in the ICT indication strategy. And also as a national educational strategy. And not only this, we allowed all what you are doing. All our work with what is happening also within the government. So we have a government agent that program that changes every four years with the strategic plan of the ministry. So this is also aligned with it and you can see some of these even above the content. And the OE are mentioned in this agenda. Also we have the E government, we have the authority for information and the government in Bahrain and it's working pretty hard. So I think it's really important to align the objectives of what we are doing in schools with the government, services and egovernment strategy. Also we have our economical vision for 2030 Asbury, so this is also aligned when we talk about all of these strategies and policies that you are running. Also, we didn't forget the Sustainable Development Goals, so this is all aligned with that and I'll show you this when we're going to talk about it.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
If we look at all the SDGS, we can see that education is goal #4, but in fact when we talk about all of other SDGS as there is mentioned many times here today that education cannot be separated from all other SDGS. If we're talking about Mother T of our talking about the weather, I think education is really important and it affects all of them.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So if we look at this DG, we all know I think we repeated this many times today and yesterday it's about ensuring the inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. This is the fourth goal. And to do that. We have 7 targets we need to really achieve all of them and plus we have means of implementation. The three of them also really important and we need to achieve and to do this.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
We think that open educational resources can help in achieving the sustainable development goal for. As we all believe that open educational resources can enhance the access to educational opportunities, both for formal and informal Switcher. If you're talking about now, having the chance of having the technology and anyone can access anytime, anywhere. Also, if we have an open license and this is the open educational resources should had an open license, will have the opportunity, especially as teachers to change, modify and customize the content that we have. Two our needs as a teachers and also to the needs of our students. Also.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
We believe that OTR can expand the access to lifelong learning opportunities. So I'm kind of Bahrain. In fact they have free education is for all other Bahraini or non Bahraini in public schools and also we have compulsory basic education and our offer.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Different services as other many countries with building and you attractive, friendly with digitally equipped schools, we have free buses transportation. We have free textbooks and also we integrated special needs in schools by offering them even transportation and even scholarships. So we have lots of services. Does not have time to mention them but I would like to share.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
With what we've done and when I talk about alignment, this is the strategic map of the minification for 2015 2018 and you can see that the digit four targets are all mentioned there, so this one is published in our website and is on the desk of every employee in the business application and schools also, so they are aware of all what we're talking about, so it is not what we are doing, only the minification, but there are also with us when they plan their personal. A plans or the institutions or schools they need to consider all of this so we have. Maybe this is just in Arabic, but it is all there. It is the economical vision 2030. The strategies of the government. All of this is mentioned, so it is all aligned in one map for all of us.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And of course, if we're going to look at open educational resources somehow, it is linked to ICT because I said he can help a lot in promoting open educational resources. So if we want to achieve SDGS, I think our city can help us a lot. Specially with this changes in the word and we're talking about digital natives. Now all our students are really digital natives. We need to cater a varsity when we think of education. So if we look at the indicators. The covering the targets undergo 459 and 17. There are certain targets that mentioned I city, so if you want really to achieve SDGS we need also to think of implementing ICT in our education. So these are some of the turkeys targets mentioned and also the indicators that are mentioned related to ICT.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So. So in an environment we are really interested in ICT and this goes back to time in 1985. But maybe an important time as the in 2001 we needed to have a new vision for ICT. So with the help of UNESCO will work together and we established an international conference and as a result of this we had a national project called King Hammer. Schools of the future daughter. What's wrong here? And then we moved it to another stage of it. Which is the.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Is it important indication and as a result of this project now or our schools how what we say the basic infrastructure of networking devices and softwares? Plus we trained teachers whatever we introduced in schools, software, hardware, we do training first so we don't introduce any device without a training. And also we use the strategy of the train of the trader to ensure the sustainability of training. Also supported our schools with like an outline, a road map of what should be done and also we gave them the Freedom for innovation. Another thing we've done. We assigned 3 new jobs and each school one of the most important is the educational technology specialist and this person is a change agent in every school. When you started their project back in 2005.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Another project, now we're moving too. So after having 10 years of King, schools of the future, we thought specially with the 2015 and looking at SDG four we need to move.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
We thought of another project which is the digital empowerment or it is an advanced project. If it and this one will.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Concentrate more on the human being because we believe that our city, of course, can provide innovative and sustainable solutions for smart, sustainable development model, especially as our city is a driver for innovation and comprehensive for talking about transformation as old. Why we do this? Because we think we have better Dennis after having this national project and also of the success we have in the egovernment. While I want to do this because we want to empower our students and this is the name of the further the project, digital empowerment in education. So we want our students to be productive and lifelong learner. We want to prepare them for the digital life because this is what is coming. They need to be prepared and so we're looking for inclusion for all citizens. And citizens will have of course, better opportunities with equality and happiness. Outcomes while looking forward looking for more productive teachers and students. We want more communication with all stakeholders. We want digital citizens productive and responsible and not only be passive in this whole word and also we want more of professionalism for both our students and teachers and most of them now are certified. Other students or teachers.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
If we look at the digital empowerment stage of our project, it is concerning more on the student empowering the student. But to do this we need to empower the teacher's old mentioned teacher plays a great role and also the school principals. The leadership in schools is really important if you want to do a change you need also to target them. And of course the empowerment within the educational leadership in the minification. And to do this. We are looking for more of student centered learning, catering of all learning like self learning, collaborative learning, deep learning and all of this. Sorry to hurry up, but I have lots of things to say. Here and we will take it in the debate if you don't mind 'cause we have more.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
For speakers, OK OK but just ended with the projects that we have in this in this one, which is one of them, is educational portal and this is can be even the place where we can share information and content. We have also another important project into this program which is the ICT mentorship and this is really important because it concerns on the pedagogy which is really important and we have also another project which is a safe use of technology because. You know technology is only a tool, but we need to make sure the students are really responsible and safe and using yet. And we have the digits.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Content and from this will start the story of the open educational resources because we believe in our strategy that content can be from different resources. We can buy something we can tailor, make something we can have our own because we have in this indication two direct rates. One is the curricular. They are responsible for making books. Another one is the Technology Directorate which is responsible for making in the media. And of course we encourage the production of.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Or students, so that's what you have, thank you.
