The top could be about robots that learn from observations and when they learn from observations they also. Also, I'm going to discuss which methods of machine learning are suitable for gaining insights, but wait a little until I explain what we mean by in. This work is not a typical robotics project. It was always useful to tell the audience coming from robotics area that this is quite different, although it is about the robots, it's quite different from what people in robotics usually do. And then new new insights also make further learning easier for the robot improve. The typical experimental scenario with our robots looks like that we have a robot performing experiments in its environment. There open learns from observations and the laws of the environment. And then the robots also extends its hypothesis languages, which is discovers new apps or concepts and introduces those into. So more or less, it looks like it takes the form of an experimental loop. When we have the robot performing experiments, collect observations, then apply machine learning to the observed data. Mechanisms that enable discovery of abstract concepts make only a few or other basic assumptions about the agents prior knowledge. With robots sounds on several platforms, single or multiple robots, robots in simulation or real robots. In India and in these experiments, the discoveries were that of obstacle immovable. Now here's a real robot Lego robot, again performing similar experiments. We use many machine learning methods. That is, learning qualitative trees and rules in systems like Queen and body. I have to be stated in some explicit symbolic form becausw and inside is something that human when a human has a look at it will understand it and also the robot will have to be able to reason explicitly about that new concept. That is a learning qualitative descriptions, so we often abstract away the numbers and instead of quantitative relations, we just use qualitative relations. When the robot is turning away from the object at some point the object area starts decreasing. This is a qualitative tree which. The area of the of the object in the camera image is monotonically increasing with the angle and. Decreasing with distance. And then here the board is completely visible. It's OK for prediction, but the clarity of what has been learned is not promising and regarding insights. OK, the more promising line seems to be used qualitative models. Do this learning in logic. Just a program called Hyper which stands for hypothesis refiner. I hope we may invent new predicates during learning. Formulas include predicates and the point is that I'll pick and invent new predicates during learning, so new predicates that for which there is no explicit examples in the data. And in this way I automatically extends its hypothesis language. Second, sometimes learning is not possible at all without a new predicate. 2010 and when they comment this capability of predicate invention in inductive logic programming, they say some of the deepest revolutions in science come from the invention of new predicates and functions. We save gasparone because the fingers can get on grasping the block, but block A is not. This is the world and the robot can see with the camera can observe the objects and extract from the camera this information that block A is on block B, so that is stated in logic on AB. Provide fixed sequences of direct commands to the robots. Now this has obvious limitation that it only works for exactly predefined tasks. So for that we can extend. But this still has a limitation. The problem is, given positive and negative examples of graspable blocks. If there is no other block above B. But it is not so. Above was never mentioned, so. If B2 is on the floor and be one is on top of another block. Sorry, do honey. And what hyper produces is this invented predicate above? Now when the robot tried that, sometimes the robot succeeded and the block ended in the new position just by distance further to the right. And as a result, the robot invented a useful new predicate which which is movable. Now in machine learning we we call modeling language hypothesis language. Robert discovered the concept of an obstacle. Suppose that we have a robot. Blocks but now the real highlight is how to learn about functions of objects and. So in expanding, the goal was not only discovering laws that enable predictions or laws that enable predictions in the Roberts environment, but also new insights that make future discoveries easier. An insight in the strong sense means something conceptually more general than a more and more abstract than than just a lot. The first approximation can be discovery of a useful abstract concept. And inside is a new piece of knowledge that makes it possible to simplify the current agents theory about its environment. The robot may postulate that there's something like the notion of support within objects, or the notion of stability notion of force between objects, notion of mobility. Some objects are mobile, some some notion of obstacle or something in robots way. So the initial initially the robot starts with this small initial theory. It keeps going further.