This is a joint work with Pradeep Ravikumar so Jason Kavian children all from University of Texas Austin. A number of variables P with very undersampled. But the question is, what if the parameter that we are interested in does not? A simple superposition of structures which is still low dimensional but surprisingly very useful in dealing with dirty data. So let's move on to a special task, a special case of two tasks, where each task has S feature and a portion of Alpha of these two. So if you have little overlap, say Alpha is .3, I plot the probability of success versus real scale sample size for these three algorithms that I told you, what is the probability of success. Performance if I go to high overlap .8. Vanwright showed that this risk air sample size ANOVA reslock P is equal to 2 four group Lasso Negahban at all. So should I choose group lasso? I don't know because I don't know what the Alpha is. I use UK to show the support of taskey. For Gaussian design we are saying that if Lambda B and lambdas are suitably lower bounded for any skills as Sr log P with high probability, there is no false exclusion. So the values are very close. Let's look at the multitask learning problem. The Multi task learning problem is the problem that we have a number of tasks to learn. So here is our theory for two test case. You will always succeed with high probability, and if it's less than that you will always fail. As you saw there, the model was just a super simple superposition of simple structures. And in fact there is a workshop. In summary, multitask learning is challenging when there is partial overlap across tasks. Relevant structure is neither sparse nor block sparse. So we look at a multiple linear regression set up. So the question is, given samples of wise and X is can we estimate beta? Here Norm 1 means some of the absolute values of each task and it is well known that it takes advantage of the sparsity of the underlying tasks. And group lasso does not model individual sparsity, so it performs well, their features are shared across many tasks. But what about a more realistic data?