I'm sorry that you cannot see, but the system evaluates the management plan that is being applied on the field assesses the risk, and if there is no risk, the farmer can proceed with his management plan. But if there is a risk then the system evaluates possible alternatives and proposes an alternative. So here natural enemies of pests are used as protection against that instead of pesticides. So here we were focusing in on understanding and management of the Biver biodiversity of agricultural ecosystems of the natural enemies. And of person finding the most suitable environment that would actually be beneficial for natural enemies. The goals were to assess the effects of agricultural management, crop pro cropping systems, and landscape and climate on natural enemies population too. So here we wanted to assess the potential of surface and karabits for biological pest control. There was a huge amount of pre processing done here. To get to a very complex data set describing taxonomic material, logical landscape data, we had to calculate many different diversity indexes, functional categories and we came up with very different and interesting models. The area is assessment of soil functions. So the goal in this study was to develop a decision support system called Soul Navigator that operates on field level and provides advises on what management practices should be used on the field in order to optimize this well functions. So now hunger is and famine is being decreased because of that, but besides that it also creates opportunities for people to leave them out of poverty in developing nations because it creates opportunity work opportunities. Around 60% of the world's working poor work in agriculture. There are more jobs open for farm equipment makers in the food processing, transportation, infrastructure, infrastructure and manufacturing. We have gone through a very thorough process of verification, sensitivity, analysis, calibration and validation of the models with many different stakeholders. Good and reliable, so the system is now Open Access. Another very popular area in agriculture. Now is the sustainability of legume of sustainable actually the sustainability? It is a very complex concept because it takes into account different. So in this area we are trying to identify transition path to increase sustainable legume production in Europe. Special level, but we are focusing on the entire value chain of legume feed and food and again here we are developing a decision support system that assesses the sustainability for the whole value chain. Last but not least, another interesting topic is resilience and resource use. Here we are again applying machine learning and decision modeling to investigate factors that influence the water, nitrogen and phosphorus use efficiency under different conditions and also to model and to assess the tomato production systems open field and glasshouse from different aspects such as socioeconomic, environmental and resource usage, efficiency perspective. It is already a reality for some time and it is very good because it actually leads to more efficient and more more sustainable. And also the Automatizacion and robotization of many processes leads to decrease in employment and workforce in the agricultural sector, which might be a problem in some areas where people depend a lot. So we know that the human population is expected to increase to 10 billion people by 2050, with, which means that we need to produce more food for more people with the limited resources that we have. Extreme events such as floods, fires that damage and cause damage to the agriculture. Contributes to biodiversity loss, water pollution, pesticides, etc. Transformed through the years so it transformed from traditional labor based to technology based agriculture, there are many new technologies introduced such as precision farming. Drones are used extensively, robots mostly for combating pests and diseases to monitor nutrient levels, to monitor soil and growing conditions, and this leads to production of huge amounts of structured on. Autonomous robots that handle essential and repetitive agricultural tasks at higher volume and faster pace as humans. Drones and software based technologies are used to monitor, crop and soil health and computer vision and deep learning algorithms are used to process this data and the last category is predictive analytics, where machine learning models are used to track and predict various variables and aspects in agriculture. Water pollution with plant protection products. Biological pest control, soil preservation and assessment of soil functions, tomato resilience and resource use efficiency, sustainability of legume agrifood chains, integrated pest management, etc. Of artificial intelligence in agriculture so. Experts and scientists could not make real field experiments to estimate how the effects of outcrossing and cross pollination take place. These are the simulations that models that we worked with Genesis map, not an individual based models for oilseed rape. So in order to analyze this kind of data and this kind of process is, we had to use data from simulation models and not real data and we were mostly focused on oilseed rape and maize. So how can 2 fields with GM and conventional crops coexist and don't mix? They have consequences of human health, and they also have some economic consequences, because which are very important to farmers, because if even 0.9% of GM material is found in conventional filled, it is considered as a gem filled and then. Then we analyzed field to field scenarios and how the weather influences the outcrossing. There are many different directives for water protection like the European Water Framework Directive Direct Directive on the sustainable use of plant plant protection products, which are sometimes in conflict with the application instructions, instructions of pesticide producers.