First of all, classification accuracy. Of course we can apply machine learning techniques with a simple. Here we show the approach from pasternack from last year. We had to find actually data set that is well annotated enough to the dollar to suit our needs and what we did is actually we were sampling Google News for a certain amount of time, like several months and at the end we had more than 250,000 pages from English Google websites. First of all, on the bottom you see the classification results for headline full take supplemental user comments and related content separately. Now, having a look at the classifiers that we were using, both the numbers and link density classifier. If you look at the distributions, the number of words and the classifier over on the left and on the right you see a difference and the difference is the articles of course have a different number of words on average, right? So that's why the deposition so well. So so so empty that's able to see there's a really broad distribution for the for the content text over words with at least let's say 10 words and more and more than 50 words. A larger equals than 10 where is the non content is on the left hand side and I also showed you the distribution of links. Essentially this is super new trial, so the transition to the next block is success P and emission of another word is failure 1 -- P. Since we already if we go from one state to another, we're meeting is a word or
Character. Uh, convince long texts of continuing to write long text must be higher than to write short text. Next steps would be to enforce look this look at this data from multilingual perspective. And there are several existing approaches, of course. Um, then you couldn't have approaches that are based on token level or engrams, and they are shallow text features and contextual features. So what are shallow text features? Maybe you know one density already gets. And there are contextual features. You can also look at the overall features of the preceding and following blog.