Let me begin by saying that none of us work in machine learning, so I don't know this audience very well. Maybe you know these vectors are different coordinates represent features or something like that. So imagine I have a bunch of collection of vectors. For this audience it should help you solve standard machine learning problems like classification or regression or things you might want to do with these vectors. It should be interesting somehow. The first is if I try to optimize this, it leads to a non convex program. It's actually not too hard, so for points in two dimensions, it does turn out to be planner. So that helps solve theoretical computer science problems on the vectors. I'm not using it for that yet, but that's part of what's going on in the background here and why. OK, so as I mentioned, the graph is not necessarily unique. An I will show you later examples of point sets will not in two dimensions, but in higher dimensions, in which it's not unique, and that sort of has to be. I want to point out the relation to locally linear linear embeddings. Well, it's not really associating a graph with a set of vectors well the first they do associated graph, but they choose the neighbors and then they choose weights. But the weights are not chosen to be symmetric, but there's still minimizing the same objective function. OK, so now I need to describe this in terms of the graph. The graph Laplacian, we take it, you take the weighted adjacency matrix. OK, our objective function in terms of the weighted Laplacian is just the Frobenius norm squared of the Laplacian matrix times the data matrix or X. That's our objective function. Alternatively, you can think of that as fixing these difference vectors, which always come up in our analysis. Also imagine fixing the weighted degrees, who I changed the order an I didn't define you yet, but if W is the vector of weights of edges, there's a matrix that you can multiply it by. So that means that there is actually a large vector space of solutions. So as soon as you have too many nonzero entries that are all positive, you can make another 1 zero and. If you take a look once I've given you end times D + 1 edges, that's actually I want to point out average degree 2 * D + 1. I will give a theorem if there's time later sort of saying there's always an approximately sparse solution in any dimension, I think there will be time for that, I'm not sure, but we don't know about a not. You take all the vectors in the hypercube of even parity. Because we have a quadratic program and it's convex. If you have any two solutions and add them together, you get another solution. If you do that, you can show that your graph has to have degree at least D, choose two. I will tell you about some interesting combinatorial properties that these graphs have. You'll see you do get some good answers to these problems using these graphs. I don't want to mention another approach to this problem that comes out of work of Lo Vas, which is really part of what motivated me towards doing this and it could provide another very natural approach to this problem, but we can't work it all out yet. So what I will prove you is actually there is always a hard and Alpha soft graph. You can also prove that there is no triangle containing a point, and Gary Miller pointed out to me this morning that if you look at the proof in our paper, it also tells you that in higher dimensions the graph you get is a simplicial complex. And because we're increasing the sum of weighted degrees and keeping the objective function value the same, then that other thing wasn't a solution, at least of maximum sum of weighted degrees. If there were multiple clusters, we use K indicator vectors. We had no parameters to train, we just have a graph in a rule to compare to what happens with the other constructions of graphs. For Edge is one of the standard things to do is fine for every vertex, it's K nearest neighbors for some K Anne, let those be the edges. And can put an edge between every two vertices if their distance from each other is less than Delta. We can represent the Laplacian as assigned vertex edge adjacency matrix times the diagonal matrix of the edge weights times that edge, vertex adjacency matrix transpose. Maybe I will not go through the computation, but just point out that the quadratic objective function can be nicely turned into something, some matrix times our vector of edge weights, so you can write the quadratic very cleanly and see what it is, and that's useful if you want to compute anything with it. We were trying to minimize a quadratic form, say for the soft graph, subject to two constraints, one of them being non negativity and the other this sort of quadratic constraint on the weighted degrees. We start out looking within a subset of the edges. If it is, we're done. Sparse solutions in higher dimensions. There exists a graph, I'll call it G~ The average degree is like 16 over epsilon squared so that the quadratic form in the Laplacian squared and in the approximate Laplacian squared is the same for all vectors approximately. Going to choose edge weights to minimize the following quantity. This is a symmetric graph, so the weight from node eyes to J is the same as the weight from node Jade I. So we can say that for any graph G There exists a sparse graph G~ so that we neglect their laplacian's, they approximate each other in a relative sense on all vectors. OK, he just considers sets of points that are on the convex Hull or their extreme points of a convex polytope, so they should all. And the interesting thing is you will only have edges in the graph for edges in the polytope. Are there other natural graphs or useful graphs to associate with the set of points? And other questions. There exist sparse approximate solutions in all dimensions. I really want relative approximations, but which I mean getting the squad rat the Laplacian squared right now say that is actually a deep question that would have a lot of implications and other places. Let's consider solving a regression problem on a graph. So I think that to me is the most natural rule for given a weighted graph and given a bunch of real numbers associated with the vertices, guessing a number at the one vertex he didn't know. That's the coordinate vectors themselves. Summed over all vertices on the coordinate vectors well in the case coordinate vector, I'll get this term in here and then will sum the sum of squares over all K. So you can just, you know rewrite this.