The method for the estimation of nonlinear ODS with the use of regression splines. Class and on the. In the in the setting, another interpretation of the method is when you compute the criterion are in queue. That is you want to explain your derivative with the current states by using non linear regression function. The splines are controlled by continuity conditions. Vector space that he spanned by these plans usually is quite useful, and then the dimension is a few spaces linked to the continuity conditions in the following manner. And the problem is that this is a bias bias, and when you study the asymptotics, you keep this bias. We quality of approximation of your function fine by your baselines, and a way to do this is to is to increase the number of nodes of baseline of. Sprains and you can note that if K and so the dimension of your vector space tends to Infinity by with the with the obvious necessary conditions at the step size of you not partitions tends to 0. Then you can be sure that you will be very good for the other question of Fiesta and the crux is that you may have is difference your capacity of approximation. OK, and then if we make some precise assumptions of the kind of models that I used, we have so deterministic behavior for the phone networks because it comes from usually from technical kinetics. These equations given by bookmaker critics are nonlinear because we use a lot of mass action or Mickey Mickey spent in kinetics and we have plenty of fundamental logical parameters to data mine. The perspective of this work is to work on the adaptive choice of those for splines because it may depend on the what we want to be want to be good for the estimation of the derivative to be good for vegetarians. We are looking also to be a way to ways to emulate our estimator to get the return rate. And I would give an example of this method with regression splines and we can derive more precise theoretical results on the behavior of the two step estimator. So we do not know explicitly in across form the solution of the differential equation. So we have a. The unknown function is fine, which is indexed by big parameter Theta forms of the system parameter on the initial conditions.