Unfortunately, the sparse representation of the environment by just this point cloud is for many applications not suitable, for example in augmented reality or robotics applications. So therefore, these points clouds cannot be used directly. Our goal is as I said before, is to classify each data head on into free or occupied. The energy function itself can be optimized by graph cuts because it's a submodular function. How are unary potentials defined by? Unary potentials are motivated by a truncated science distance function, so as you can see here, if a teacher here on this intersected or it's intersected by many Rays which are directly in front of a vertex, then the probability that this teacher here on is free space is very high. So given this vertex we can see that this trade on here is with very high probability. Describe or say that the probability is very high that this state rate on here is occupied space our universe are looking like that that we just count the number of how often a title here and is classified as free space and is occupied space. So this advantage is that we do not have to perform a array data hidden intersection. Typically only 50% or 30 to 50% of the tetrahedral get unary terms. Except for Neighboring's tetrahedra that are not crossed by common race, so this is shown here. We integrate this new 3D point into our delauney triangulation. So this also this change in the delani translation has to be reflected in the energy function. This labeling basically can be obtained by a standard graph cut, But the problem is that our energy function grows and grows. So this is the number of 3D points. They defined or modified the standard graph cut of boikov bye bye approach that you can add and remove several terms of your energy and you can reuse the labeling result from a previous energy which is nearly similar to this current energy and therefore the complexity then depends not on the overall scene size or a number of terms in this energy function, but just on the number of changed weights. We constructed about 80,000 3D points which are connected to 4.4 race on average. Our work was can we reconstruct a suitable or suitable surface from just using this power structure for motion points? 'cause we're dealing here with reconstructed points from feature matches matches which are always yeah, sometimes noisy when we integrate want to integrate such a surface of construction in slam approach. This is also reflected in the surface reconstruction. So this is the number of 3D points and thousand and this is a time for updating the energy function. This is the comparison of the dynamic graph cut against the static graph cut. So to come to conclusion, so you can use or we can reconstruct a consistent mesh from sparse, noisy sparse structure from motion pointcuts by using a robust random field formulation. And we can also do it incrementally and in really in real time so we can integrate about 2000 sparse 3D points per second. And we are independent from the overall scene size thanks to the dynamic graph cut. As we have seen in this video, we're not limited to specific camera motion and we can update arbitrary parts of our surface. We also, as I said before, we have to deal with severe outliers because of false matches. Our approach has to adopt to continuously growing point cloud and as I said before already, we have to deal with arbitrary camera motions, so already revisited parts that are revisited by a camera should be refined in the surface. First of all, I will present some related work. Then I will explain how we obtain the surface by labeling approach and how we achieve this incremental surface reconstruction. So to come to the related work, nearly all our work in this field is based on irregular discretization of the space into tetrahedra. Make a deal on a triangulation of the sparse point cloud and then perform a classification into the free and occupied space. The advantage of our determination is that it can be. Against Outliers produces really nice results, but it's not suitable for incremental reconstruction becausw. So we propose an algorithm that performs a robust fiachra pit labeling using a deal on a triangulated sparse point cloud we formulated is that as conditional random field and our energy function under describing this random field is can be very easily computed and updated if the deal on it regulation changes. This part has been labeled by our approach as free space in this part.