[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hi, good morning, I'm Shay Fisherton from the University of Southampton presents in this paper with the Marcus Lucas Rush Elena simple Remain and Nigel also from the University of Southampton. The talk is on. An approach towards hybrid named entity recognition and it's a study of content and crowdsourcing related factors.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And just a bit to give you the motivation of this problem. Now, considering you have these two tweets and the first one looks like something that's taken from the news article, while the second one looks like what you'd traditionally see on Twitter, how do you perform named entity recognition on this suites and this? We all know that named entity recognition is an important first step when you're doing information extraction. When you want to build semantic systems. So given these two tweets, what do you do?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
The current state of the art. Has started advocating on using hybrid platforms. Now the way hybrid platforms work is you first pass the tweets through your traditional machine based tools, so this could be either APIs like Alchemy API, also mental open Kelly or you can use standalone tools like the Stanford Tools. Now, what traditionally happens is you have all these tweets that fall off just because of the nature of how tweets are. So tweets tend to be very short. They have ambiguous statements, inconsistent capitalizations, urban spellings, collapse words. All these things make it difficult for you to use your traditional systems to carry out proper named entity recognition. So what then happens is you pass some of these tweets to the crowd. And they start doing a good job and in some cases they don't do a very good job 'cause they're just in cases which are quite ambiguous even for experts. So you have to figure out what tweets do I pass to the crowd? What tweets do I pass my machine tools and probably what sweets do? I also passed to the experts. And this is very important. 'cause currently we have very high precision and recall values when you use news articles. But when you use machine based tools for most suites they just don't perform very well in this hybrid approach has been discussed and carried out in literature. There have been people who have looked at these tools. But the main thing we're trying to do.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
East to understand at this end of the pipeline, how do we decide on the challenging cases and what we want to do is to take a step back and say, how can we figure out what suites are more amenable to the crowd? What do they perform well at? What kind of entities are they good at spotting and this would help us make an informed decision on how we can build the entire pipeline. Once we select this, we can decide these other ones go to the to the machines and this ones which are very very difficult. Probably go to experts.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Now our hypothesis were on 2 broad categories. The first thing we thought was there are probably some factors in the tweets inherent in the tweets themselves that make them more suited to the crowd. So we felt probably it's the length of the tweets. Maybe they like long tweets 'cause it's more conversational and has more discussed just like the news articles. Or maybe they like short stories because, well, it's short and they can just do the work and get it done with. What kind of entities are they more interested in? Are they more suited to finding people, entities, or organization? Or are they better at spotting movies in the tweets? We wanted to understand these things. And one very important thing, we also wanted to understand what I said. The first hypothesis is what kind of tweets don't they like to annotate? So what kind of treats do they escape? Which was one of the very crucial factors were looking for? And what's the precision like? What's the recall like and how much time do they actually spend? So do they quickly spot movies in suites, or do they quickly spot locations in tweets?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So now over to our task design the task for the workers was two spots named entity named entities in Tweets. They were meant to find persons, organizations, locations and miscellaneous which miscellaneous entities abroad are broad class of entities which include movies, books and music albums and things like that. And one of the very important things they could do was they could skip to it. So if they weren't sure of any tweets, they could decide to skip it. We use crowd Flowers or recruitment platform and we built a custom based system and reason why we use a custom based interface was because we wanted to give them the opportunity to skip to it. They were insured so the recruitment was done on Crowdflower. The workers, crowd server and they were re directed to our own system.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And this Cam shows an overview of what our system looks like, and we have the highlights which showed the tweets you have the button to skip the tweets and you have the entity types which are given there and when each worker puts the mouse over each entity type they have the description of the antitype. The guidelines were also presented earlier and one thing to note about the guidelines. We use them standard guidelines and that was one thing which was. Discussed 'cause people felt all. Probably if you had given them more details on on what an entity is or what's an entity type is or how you disambiguate between this entity types, then maybe the results would have been better. But when we went through literature we saw that there was a paper that discussed about the impact of giving fine grained and detailed and sanitation guidelines. So in one of our extended works we actually said oh let's probably try this out and we actually tried. Then we figured out that or we found out from the results that. Given fine grained detailed annotation guidelines actually doesn't help, and in some cases actually hurts the results. So for this set of experiments we used basic annotation guidelines which were not from literature.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So next we look at the experiment as a whole. Part of most of things here have been discussed earlier. They were to tag 10 tweets, any 10 tweets they could skip, the ones they were in sure of. We used four datasets. Now three of the datasets were from literature datasets that have been highly cited and people have work done, and there were a couple of acres which had looked at these three datasets together. But we also created a fourth data set and one of the reasons or couple of reasons why we did this was because the sampling methods for the datasets. Were not clear for the update. Says we're not like we could only guess based on the tweets and the creation time so we know they were roughly created between 2008 to 2013, but when we looked at some of the data datasets, some of them looked like what you get in your traditional news articles, especially the MSM datasets. So you had some treats which were like I have a dream. Dash Martin Luther King isn't those were the kind of tweets you found in some of the datasets, so we decided to create our own fault datasets sampled. I'm close to 6 billion tweets, 20,000,000 tweets per day, reservoir sampling and we got that down to 3380 tweets which we felt were representative of tweets between January 2014 to June 2014. And we also created what would like to cautiously call the gold standard. Obviously because of all the discussions we had to come, we had to give each other to talk about also in more details an each task was at 5 cent per task. We didn't pay any bonuses, and a reason for this was because we felt that the tweets were shorter and in literature we saw people annotating emails which were much longer and had more entities. An medical texts which had like. Really vague entities, so we felt for our tweets, which had on the average one and half entities, we decided to skip this and there were three judgments for task.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And this just gives like a further breakdown on what the datasets looked like or our own datasets had the highest number of entities. For some reasons, I think it's probably the recency. Then we also had to look at hashtags and mentions, so some of the datasets completely blotted out mentions and hashtags. For example, the MSN making sense of microposts datasets, Deans have any hashtag, don't have any mentions, didn't have any URLs, so that's also made it look like your traditional news articles and. The tweets that were really consistent. Other datasets have hashtags but didn't annotate them orders had usernames for dinner, annotate them, but we had. We kept the hashtags and usernames and we had then annotated.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And one very important thing we had to look at was how do you define these things. So if someone says I'm going to this restaurant gives the name of the restaurant is that are you looking at the Organazation restaurant or are you talking about the location? If you say I'm going to the museum like a famous museum, is it the location museum or an organization museum? We had to make all these decisions so we use the Nerd Ontology which defines all these things. So for example, museum, restaurants, mall and hospital are all subclasses of locations, so we map them all to locations. And also for universities and institutes, dodos were mapped to organisations, so we use the Nerd tool nerd Ontology alot to make hold this decision.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The next thing you have is OK, all this data sets the four different datasets. All code things differently. So looking at the location, the filing date set called location plays and the recent called it either Facility or Geo location MSM just called It's Lock and we call this location. We had to also put all these things together and you had things like music artists, so Miss Curtis is probably a person, but when you have something like music Band is, it's an organization or when you have sports team is it's an organization and. We had to make decisions and all that also. So that was for the entity type mapping. Now go.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Onto the results. So the results were going to look at the results in light of our original hypothesis and would shelve the things which we found out. So the first thing we.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Found out was. The number of entities. What's the impact of number of entities on how accurately the crowd annotate the task? The tweet and what we notice was. The more the entities, the more likely the crowd workers are to wrongly annotated. So, and this comes after the selection process. So after they have selected tweets to annotate, then if it has fewer entities consistently across all the datasets, we notice that they always tended to annotate them correctly.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Interestingly, what we notice for the micropost length was only averaged micropost length doesn't really matter after they have selected it. So when you look at the ones they correctly annotated, and once they wrongly annotated it, didn't really matter the length of the tweets, which was quite interesting.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And this is where we started getting some further insights. Now when you look at the entity type, so this graph was got from the confusion matrix of. Of the things that were mismatched, so the the vertical axis shows the error percentage an what we notice was organisations and miscellaneous aunties were the hardest to annotate for the crowd, so whenever they saw an organization which proved and pretty much falls back to the disambiguation of restaurants and organization, is a museum an organization which might probably come back to oh, you didn't give them guidelines on? That's what we ran for the experiments which we give them guidelines, and they still they still missed it. So organisations and. Miscellaneous, and these were really hard for people to annotate.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Next thing we looked at the skip skip tweets, So what kind of treats do they escape? So the first thing we notice was, the more the entity is, the more likely the crowd was to skip it. So and this was consistent across all the datasets, regardless of how the data sets were sampled. So the more the entity is, the more likely they were to skip it.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Now back to the micropost lamp. Here we notice that consistently if the tweets was very long, they always skipped it, regardless of if it was talking about something really interesting. They preferred shorter tweets, which was less work, which we can say is probably very traditional of most paid microposts or microtask platforms. So the longer the tweets not doing it, so they skipped it.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Another interesting thing we notice was which ties back to. The former result was people annotate organisations wrongly, but they also tend to escape task that contain organisations so they know they're not good at these tasks and they also skip it, which is interesting 'cause we didn't have what you call like. We didn't have a negative reward system. We didn't have a penalty system, so even though we didn't say that, or if you annotate this wrongly, you're going to lose X number of points or you're going to lose this amount of money. They instinctively knew the task they were in good at. And they completely avoid it, those ones.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Next we look at the average annotation time. This was also quite insightful. We notice that on average, for most of the datasets. People identified locations correctly and the annotated on the identified it quickly and correctly, so whenever they spotted the location, they spotted it correctly and organization, as usual was quite challenging. But one thing you might notice what so So what happened in your own data set? And we had lots of discussions about this and we looked at the data in details. Anna couple of things came to mind which might not be like completely accurate 'cause what we see is as was as we were discussing as we heard in the keynote yesterday. This is more of the what we see and we might not be completely sure of the why, but well, what we could cause it was that our our datasets had a higher number of hashtags and at mentions which were stripped out in most of the other datasets and most times this at mentions may refer to either organisations or places which were for example for sorry for organizations or persons which were easy for the crowd to annotate. But when you have things like the World Cup which had. Publishing it high number of tweets in our datasets you have lots of events which will hashtag which was easy for them to annotate and then you have. The location was always lost in the middle of all the tweets. So there was this cognitive view bias which we posited that that was the issue in annotating locations here, which might make you think OK, probably if you get rid of all the hashtags and mentions like in the other datasets, they might be better just points to note.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
I'm looking at the accuracy is the F1 scores combination of the precision recall this is also consistent with all the results we had earlier, which shows that people are better at identifying persons and locations and they do very badly with organisations and miscellaneous miscellaneous ones were really, really challenging. Some of those calls were really, really bad, so. That's probably gives you an insight on the things you probably want to outsource to experts to do.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Now when we looked at this details in more, we were interested to know what the issue was and this were the classes of problems we notice in most of the results. The first one was back to organisations for versus locations. So considering you have two suites, the first one says. Um, I'm going to Walmart and the other one says, oh, Walmart just posted record high profits and you have to look at those entities in context and there was something. Um, there was something the crowd wasn't very good at. It might be as a result of the way the task was designed. There more things you would probably want to look at in this case is to know why they probably didn't spend as much time, probably figuring it out, but they probably just weren't good at it. The next one is an organization versus software. I just posted a picture on Facebook or Facebook. Just acquired Instagram DJ acquired the company Instagram or D acquired the app. Instagram is Instagram. The product or Instagram the company? I just left the comments on Twitter and things like that. Those were also and those were things. We also had decisions to make while we were annotating. So the the crowd wasn't good at also and the next thing we we notice was entities with typos. So there were, and that's traditional with Twitter. So you have things that are wrongly spelled, but as a human when you see it, you have an idea that, OK, this is what this person is talking about. And then you annotate it and this might be challenging. For example, if you're building machine based system and there were issues with this then you also have aggravations and collapse words. So for example this is. This is a collapse form of Jonas Brothers and people just say Jo Bros. I'm going to see the drill bro, so I'm going to watch them perform or you see MJ. So it's it's Michael Jordan, Michael Jackson, or so. Those were all the planes which we found that there were issues with then. There were the cases of nested entities and partial entities. Is there someone says I'm going to New York City for Hamilton in London Fashion Week and we notice that in most cases the crowd which is annotate the first instance they can identify. So here you have London Fashion Weekly events which should be miscellaneous miscellaneous entity. But they will just identify it as London or partial entities. And this was quite an interesting one. And to understand exactly all the crowd workers that annotated this just annotated. It is understand which was interesting, so they there was also this issue of partial entity matches, which was very very common with the crowd.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
One of the last things which we notice was a very, very interesting case which we would call implicit entities. And when we and this was this happened with all the workers. When you have a case which says, for example, out get off at the last stop of the Hammersmith and City line, all the crowd workers always annotated last stop as an entity, which is quite interesting. 'cause we said that don't annotate house or home or things like this as entities, but every crowd worker that annotated this always annotated last stop as an entity, and we began to think about this. 'cause we notice this in a number of cases. And so, for example, the last half of the Hammersmith and City line is either Hammersmith or Barking, and they figured out that all barking is the name of the place, or Hammersmith is the name of the place. So last stop is an entity, and this also happened with going to the gym after Tesco and they know all the gym after Tesco has this name or I'm going to get off at the last bus stop of busted 70 bus stop of Busted Seven has this name and consistently every crowd worker always annotated this implicit entities and. We also notice that this implicit entities always came in the form of location points, and we feel this is something that should warrant further investigation 'cause it might be hard for for machines to do like a full scale. It's not possible. Ways will probably be hard for them to expand on this and to figure out what the last stop of the Hammersmith and City line for example, is 'cause you really have to have background knowledge to disambiguate and. Find out what this is.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So in summary, going over we found out from our analysis of the micropost and behavioral features of the crowd that people are quite good at spotting locations and persons, but miscellaneous entities are really challenging for them. An organisations are also fairly tricky. Crowds perform based on recent data. For example, the most of the highest scores. Who are, from our words, made database and what Smith datasets which contained tweets from like 2014 like the World Cup event, Things which were really familiar, very good ads annotating this so it's most likely they remember things which are fresh in the memory or people who are very popular on social media or in the news. Then there was also the cases of partial annotations and nested entities which we talked about. An we also had this cases of of when people had to identify things which you probably won't find in a desert area or a traditional knowledge based people are very good at spotting a Twitter mention and knowing the old. This is one of these music groups or this is the Twitter handle of person and these are things which might be harder to do. Entity linking. Suncoast, if there's probably nothing you can find in your traditional data store for that and the final thing we noticed was. The implicit entities which we feel is an interesting class of of entities, which we can probably for the low cats.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Thank you. Thanks a lot of very interesting talk and it's very important. I think, to look at crowdsourcing in this very detailed level, but I'd like to make a suggestion maybe for what we can learn from that. As a community, I think you're making a very binary distinction between crowds and experts, and in fact this is a crowd of let me put it really, hardly slave labor. I mean they weren't paid very well, right? I've done tweet annotation myself. That task was harder, but. I would never have been able to even get to minimum wage with that kind of five cents per task. So what people are maybe doing as well rather than finding things difficult, is just being rational and thinking how? What can I actually do for five cents a task and so they don't get rewarded for reading the instructions, which is very important of course, because it is a hard task. They skip the things that require a bit more time to think. And they don't care about correctness because there is no bonus for correctness. And so going and taking this as an indication for saying for anything that requires a minimum amount of thought, we need to go to the really expensive experts is maybe to Russia. Conclusion, Could you comment on that? OK, um yes, we definitely notice this issues, and I think that's something you notice in most microtask cases, but. I think people who do crowd work are fully aware of this and we put a bit of safeguards there. Now we could have designed the the we could have designed the platform in most of the way he talked about. For example, putting the bonus systems and putting in more safeguards for like spam checking and things like this. But a couple of things number one that wasn't the primary aim of this. It's definitely something we can look forward into, but. Simply, for example, bypassing the crowd and moving into experts won't scale, and I think you have to look at. Case of numbers when you're trying to do this, this, for example, our corpus initial couples were 6 billion, so it might be hard to get more experts to to annotate it rather than the crowd. And most times you you still eventually would need the crowd before you build. For example, better algorithms for your machine. It's also there's always the part of the crowd, and there's the issue of payment and ethics in crowdsourcing, and I think it's also a constant research. Constant area of thought and I don't think we've completely cracked that yet. So very important points and in your evaluation you show the F1 measure values, but I'm wondering, given your observations, I expect recall to be lower. The precision is that the case. Yes, the recall tended to be lower, but what we notice was that on the average, most of the most of the tweets had less than two entities, so for most cases so. And that was that was part of the things we talked about, and one of the reasons 'cause we had this discussion before about bonuses and I was one of the reasons why we decided not to use bonuses. So the recalls were lower, but they will. They weren't significantly lower. OK, so just just a comment about the payment. Then you pay per tweet, but then you show that people tend to skip tweets with many entities. Or would it be reasonable to paper entity instead? So we we didn't paper tweet we paid with the payment was for the whole task. So the task was to tag 10 tweets. Any 10 tweets. So the payment was for the whole task and still wouldn't make sense to set the payment of a task based on the complexity of the task, which can be measured by the number of entities to be. Hold on what you should know that probably don't need the crowd, but an estimation of the complexity of the task. Yet there I think that's one one of the research areas of crowdsourcing payment, optimal payment strategies and the many things you can experiment with targets per entity. But there each one has its caveats, and it's dangerous. People can just. You can also have like competitions, crowd agreements, on baselines, on number of entities in the streets. And there are many things you can play around with the payment so. Well, in this work you separate crowd workers and experts. And how do you know that the crowd workers are not experts in this kind of task? And who are these groups of people that are experts in annotating these kind of tweets? OK, so um, the people who would say will be experts I believe would probably people who would spend more time and efforts on it. So this is the end. Yes, because either 'cause they played better or better because they have certain incentives to do it better, probably 'cause it's their task, or it's their friends task. It's it's 'cause we are. All silly people like everybody is drawn out of the general set of people. So the people who would call crowd workers at those who are primarily incentivized by the payment to go to this task. Obviously there are different ways you can frame that. Ask you confirm the task as a game where you don't pay anybody and probably people have different incentives to do that. So I'll say people who will be experts here will just be people who would spend more time and thoughts. And probably come to the consensus or probably people who would say oh, let's use the nerd nerd ontology so we can have consistency on all our results. Any other question? OK, so then let's thank our speaker again.
