The blessing of dimensionality for learning large Gaussian mixtures. We first need to discuss the curse of dimensionality and it's a common obstacle in modern computational applications that the problems intrinsically become very difficult as the dimension decreases, and this is more than just like. So a common approach when better tools aren't available. Is to preprocess your data and this is often to reduce the dimension. And there are simultaneous work by bus, garage Charikar Moitra Envision Raghavan. Algorithm and their work handles unknown access line covariance which has a slightly higher running time and but a little lower probability of error ultimately. So I'd like to discuss now the blessing of dimensionality was ultimately a side effect of our original attempt to learn Gaussian mixture models, and the relation came from this independent component analysis problem, which has a long history in the machine learning signal processing community, and the model is as follows. The noise is Gaussian and S has independent coordinates. And the basic idea of this reduction is this probabilistic technique of personalization. So if you have a distribution over discrete set and you generate a pass on random variable R. And you draw our samples from the set. But if you're set, X is a set of vectors and you draw the samples and you add them together, you can write it as y = a S, where a is just the matrix of X&S. And then add noise to this. And this is approximately from a product distribution. We show that in high dimension. You can learn efficiently very large mixtures of Gaussians polynomial. And in low dimension it fails generically. So the blessing of dimensionality. And anytime we say efficient, we will mean learnable in polynomial time and say one over your probability of error etc. And show that this is generically hard in low dimension and easy in high dimension, and we'll discuss what that means later and there is in fact an exponential gap between the two. And so specifically, we'll discuss a blessing of dimensionality for the case of recovery of just the means in the weights, even. In fact, in low dimensions, your ability to efficiently estimate a Gaussian mixture fails generically, which is to say for dense enough sets. So that the distributions are very close. But yet very different in parameter space. So you can't distinguish the two. If you take a square points from the end dimensional hypercube with high probability, you can construct two disjoint subsets of these K square points and two Gaussian mixtures over them that are exponentially close in total variation distance. And. So you have very close statistical distributions, but the means are going to be well separated by your choice of these two disjoint subsets. Just to distinguish these two distributions. Using smooth polynomial time and sample size will talk a little more about that that, but the theorem is as follows. If each Gaussian is the same covariance matrix. And you know it beforehand, you can estimate the means using sample and time that's polynomial and the dimension number of components inverse in this conditioning parameter S. And the other natural parameters to the problem. It's a generalization of the smaller singular value of the matrix of means in the mixture. This is the more precise way in the case where your fixed P = 2. Singular value of the second catcher out power. That is only a blessing when your dimension is high enough. And it is still hard generically in low dimension. And finally, in 2010 the work of Belkin and Sinha and Moitra Valiant both gave polynomial time algorithms to learn Gaussian mixtures for fixed number of components. Officially, without separation assumptions, but instead their complexity is related to the smallest singular value of the matrix of means.