And so when you get this initial set of end points, you're allowed to take a little bit of time to build up a data structure that will hopefully help you later on. So the query time should be better than brute force. Maybe something like N log in, or enter the 1.1, but it shouldn't be too much more than. OK, so KD tree is basically a hierarchical partition of space. What I'll be talking about is analyzing the failure probability of these kinds of data structures for exact nearest neighbor search. Will look at instead of picking coordinate directions, pick a random direction from the unit sphere. OK, so this is the first data structure. Overlapping cells OK, so these are typically called spill trees. And RP tree uses the perturbed split for routing data and routing queries. So pick any data set you like and any query you like. OK, no conditions. The worst case is when all the points are roughly the same distance from the query, and in that case this is going to be 1. So it's going to turn out that for the spill trees, the failure probability is proportional to this function. The random direction and the overlapping cell. For the RP tree, which uses only one trick, it doesn't use the overlapping sell. The failure probability is a little bit higher. And so the relevant thing over here is to look at the random projection of three points. There's this conjecture that's fairly common, though I think it's I think I don't think it's been proved, and the conjecture is that really this problem is subject to a curse of dimensionality and the way it's sometimes been stated is that either the query time has to be exponential in the dimension or the size of the data structure has to be exponential in the dimension just to give you an example of something that would be considered a bad case for nearest neighbor. When you're in D dimensional space, it's possible to pick roughly 2 to the D points that are about the same distance from each other. The only thing that can lead to failure is if lots of points fall between Q and its nearest neighbor, and so here we have the expected number of points that fall between Q and its nearest neighbor. The probability that the fraction of points that fall between a query and its nearest neighbor is greater than Alpha is by Markov's inequality just that divided by 2A? Any given cell of the tree OK, and now you just have to sum over cells at all possible levels of the tree, and so you get the. So you have a doubling measure. Function in the case of a doubling measure is really very small, and so you recover this result that the query time is exponential in the intrinsic dimension. Cases like this, how can cases like this be defeated? In order to double the number of points in a ball instead of doubling the radius of the ball, you just grow the radius by one and so this is a very bad case for nearest neighbor search. Provides a potential function that captures the difficulty of nearest neighbor search. So let's let's say that for instance you want to approximate nearest neighbors. In that case you can get a query time event to the quarter. It might be the case that the two approximate points are just the nearest neighbor and a few more points, whereas for other datasets, like the bad example I gave the two approximate nearest neighbor can be the entire data set. So this parameter C can be a little bit hard to interpret. The other way, the other sort of common way to get around this curse of dimension is to say well instead of exponential in the dimension, can we do exponential in the intrinsic dimension for different notions of intrinsic dimension? And when it comes to exact nearest neighbor search, the notion of intrinsic dimension that is typically been used is the notion of a doubling measure. I believe the most popular is probably the cover tree method. This is a beautiful method. It works not just in Euclidean space, but in any metric space the size of the data structure is just ordering OK the query time. This little D 0 times log. Part of the reason for that is that this notion of doubling measures actually a very brittle notion, and I expect that it's something this phenomenon of low doubling measure is probably not something that holds very broadly. OK, so this is an algorithm that's clearly, you know, that seems to do well in practice. OK and OK. Now finally, there is a third class of data structures that are also very popular and that basically have not been analyzed all that careful.