[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so all set my talk will be a little different, a little bit more applied this time. This is a resource paper about a knowledge graph that we constructed in the cyber security domain. Why is this?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Important security just motivate this work in the news a lot. If you just look at this very nice website which visualizes recent incidents you can find really nice illustrations of this one. Very recent example is this British Airways examples example. We have been hit very hard by penalty that was imposed on them based on new GDP are legislation after an incident. Where did that last 500,000 customer records? So details on 500,000 customers, so this is no longer just an IP issue, it's a strategic business issue and you can find many examples on sites like this of incidents. More recently, the whole ransomware epidemic has been something that has given headaches to to those responsible for security just to set the stage here.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So I won't have the time to really cover the reasons for all these issues. What I want to start with is what can we do with data to address some of the issues and to improve situational awareness to decrease risks, to assess risks etc. And what we did here is look at what data is available. So the good thing is there is a lot of data available. There is a lot of cooperation and information sharing going on there are. Search there are various organizations and bodies handling incidents for collecting information for sharing information structure format. So we have a whole wealth of standard format to encode. Information in on the others, on the other hand, if you are a System Administrator or you're responsible for some infrastructure, there are lots of. There's lots of data generated by them, and you have a whole wealth of tools that you can use to collect and analyze the data. But then on the flip side. As far as Corporation information sharing is concerned, alot of information that should be shared is actually textual data, so that's not immediately useful or doesn't really scale. To apply this automatically to use reasoning and all things that we in the semantic community could come up with as far as ideas are concerned. Log data. The same goes for log data. A lot of it is structured semi structured, unstructured and we're working on somewhere. Coaches to automate the interpretation of locks as well. Then as far as the standards is concerned, the question is how do you put all these together? How do you contextualize information that you collect from your systems with the information you can get from these various sources? Vulnerabilities on recent incidents on affected software components on common attack patterns, so these are all my standards, but it's very hard to relate it to your own data. It's also dispersed. There are separate sources. They exist in separate sources, and so of course the ideas. Can we bring all that together? Have to deal with increasing lock data volume and heterogeneity on the other side as well and then the analytic tools that we have. And to have quite severe limitations, so there are very good log aggregation tools that collect everything in one place. But at the end of the day, it often still comes down to running regular expressions over the log data to find out the individual clues and then the question is how do these clues fit together? How can you connect the dots bots causally related and what isn't? So you are dealing a lot with symptoms. You're not really feeling so much with root causes. And whether they really are related, and that's the more long-term vision to work on that. And some of the other ongoing work is focusing on how this is applied.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
But then for all that, we first need to look at the ugly side of what we have to deal with. On the left. We have an example of information pieces from these various sources and how they are related. And there are various formats, some of them are available in multiple formats, typically XML may be chasing maybe CSV and there are at least and that's the good news. Common identifiers that point. To information in other resources so you have vulnerability descriptions, you have weaknesses. You have attack patterns and then you have affected components, it product classes and these are all separate sources that you can go and download and then look through these datasets, but you can't really query it in any meaningful way. And on the other hand, so this is what we will mainly focus on today, and also a little bit on the other side, what do you actually get in in terms of lock data here? You're also have all the typical problems of syntactic semantic rigidity and inconsistencies, etc, and we will see.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
That in our use case, how we tackle this? So the goal here is to construct a knowledge graph from all these publicly available datasets in various formats and thereby create the foundation for a semantic approach. Makes cybersecurity knowledge more actionable in terms of being able to relate it to your own infrastructure data. Make it timely so there have been various approaches. To conceptualize the cyber security domain mostly from the top down onto logical approach and the problem really is the missing instance data. So what we build here is a continuously updated knowledge graph that evolves overtime is knew, vulnerabilities emerge and the threat landscape changes if you will. And how do we do this? We integrate this first information, make it available in various ways as we will see. And also facilitate contextualization for various use cases. So for monitoring purposes for risk assessment you know if you are for instance affected by a certain vulnerability that pops up what you need to do right now is basically go and look in infrastructure. What software components do you have and then subscribe to various feeds, look through them and match them or use specific. Proprietary software tools to do that. What we're trying to do here is.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Build a knowledge graph to support this and the point of departure. Here is a whole range of different standards for cyber security information sharing. We picked out a few of those and we will see in the use cases why we picked these specific ones and this is the example that I showed previously of some of the connections of the examples, and these can be very useful. In vulnerability assessment in intrusion detection use cases, these are the two that we illust.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Right, so from a very high level perspective, the vocabularies that we need for that is to represent vulnerabilities. These are in the center. Then we have CRE, which is a standard for. Have assigning unique names two components so common platform in numeration? Then we have vulnerability scoring system which is a separate standard we have in common weakness in numeration, which is an abstraction in some sense of vulnerabilities which tells you what are the common weaknesses that you can find in software. And then you have a attack patterns which describe sequence of steps to. Achieve a certain malicious outcome.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And if we look a little bit closer so this is Capac common attack pattern, in numeration, this is the vocabulary that we built for that. And this is covered by my trailer is a publicly available catalogue of attack patterns and the entries are descriptions of things than attacker can do to gain access to a system, for instance. So techniques and procedures used to carry out the sequence of steps that makes up the pattern.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Then we have vulnerabilities. There are various feeds available for that and these define identifiers. These so called CVE IDs that can be used to reference publicly known vulnerabilities. And these are assigned by various. Thor iti's

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And then in the end, what you want to know is whether any vulnerability is really critical, whether it imposes a threat to your infrastructure, and for that there is a standard called CVS Vulnerability Scoring system which basically assigned numeric value to vulnerability and says whether it's critical or not, or how critical it is. And this is based on some formula based on certain characteristics. Like what the take back to is necessary with this code, but the impact is etc. This is then.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Also represented. Finally, we have CRE for platform in numeration, and this is really used to describe things like software components. As an example, prodigy in this version would be represented like this. You can look all of this up on the CRE. Which is operated by NIST and this is a way to have a unique identifier for certain bits and pieces of software of of IT infrastructure.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Yeah, the weakness in numeration, the final standard that we include is a list of commonly occurring software weaknesses and vulnerabilities, and you can then, for instance, connect a certain vulnerability and. Thereby indicate what the weakness is that this particular vulnerability exploits, and this can give you more insight on how to address it, how to respond to certain. Vulnerabilities that you may find in your infrastructure etc so.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Um 2 built this knowledge graph. What we do is then pretty straightforward. At the beginning we collect all these individual datasets. We download all the individual resources. Some of them are available as a feed. Some are available as a dump in XML format in Jason format and in CSV format. We extract them. We map them using RML rules. We then established the links between them. And validate the resulting knowledge graph so some of the issues we encounter here is that there are broken links in the sense that some of the references used do not exist in the other resources. So this is something to account for. The CRE string is has a certain structure that we need to parse and translate into a set of properties. Yeah, various ways. Various steps involved in the validation. We use shackle constraints for that and we do some manual checks. All the code for this is of course available and then we store the data in a triple store and expose it in various ways. So we provide a sparkle endpoint. We provided triple pattern fragment interface provided this link data and also as an RDF dump.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And this is what we get in terms of. Axioms, classes in the certain individual groups and individuals, and this.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
This is how it has evolved since we originally submitted the paper, and we see that some of these are fairly static, so the weaknesses and attack patterns and all the whole lot is going on there. Any ideas are growing and at the vulnerabilities as well.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So how can we apply this? We include the two use cases in our paper. The first is pretty straightforward. We have our knowledge graph and now the question is what kinds of vulnerabilities can be finding their own infrastructure and the goal was to make all this queryable and what we?

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Can do, for instance is create a local asset inventory. In current work we are working on ways to automate this for me.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Stration purposes we just constructed this manually for this illustration and then what we can do is we can run this sparkle query. Part of this is our local knowledge about our infrastructure and the other part comes from our Knowledge graph and we can ask a question what vulnerability, which of our assets are vulnerable and one other vulnerabilities that they have. And then from there we can navigate and find more. Information find out more about these vulnerabilities etc. So all of this of course, is in RDF and you can just.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Download it. So let's maybe skip this. This just shows how we.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Can assign criticality values and the more elaborate use case involves. So lock data that we collect from an intrusion detection system network.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Based intrusion detection system for which we had to build another vocabulary but the idea.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Yeah, basically is we can collect.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Clock data and then we can run a query that says from our incoming alerts from our log messages. Can we connect this to information about these reference vulnerabilities that we find in the log stream and can say OK where in our intrusion detection alerts do we find pointers?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
OK, last one just a call to action. I didn't focus so much on the actual resource here, but now you have an idea of what this can be used for. We published this in various ways. You can download an RDF dump. You can use the various endpoints. Software to construct this knowledge Graph is online and just please go ahead and give it a try. What we are working on.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Next is extending this, extending the scope with additional resources and putting this in the larger context of semantic log analysis, which is our long-term goal. OK, running out.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Time so I don't know if you have time for some questions. Thank you very much for the talk. I have a quick question and maybe the possible application or like a site application you were describing in one of your use case that for instance, some workstations could be like connected and then we can discover what could be developer developer abilities of the workstation. Could this be done with for instance mobile phones? I mean are you already encompassing the with data set that up for the that you are pulling? Do you already have the burner abilities of, for instance, and the rate applications or iOS applications, and then try to? I mean, would it be possible to do that false for smartphones? For instance, an interesting question. We have not done any work in that direction so far. Basically we all we need this log data. So in a sense there is no reason why it couldn't come from a small phone. If it's an Android phone, you have very similar locks anyway, so something that we have been doing is looking at syslog data. And trying to using NLP techniques to pick out for instance named entities that appear in there. So we could just as well apply this to data that comes from a smartphone that would be actually interesting. Yeah, so yeah, thank you for the talk. One question I would have is about ontologies themselves, where you designed them. So did you design them such that they really increased interoperability between the different types of locks you're having? Or are they just separate and then you have to solve it at the query time? So where? Where is South interoperability problems? So the question is whether we have some higher level abstraction, or whether we do the integration based on some high level conceptualization, an ontology which is currently not really the case. So it's a very data driven approach. We start from the data that's there. What we do is we resolve all their references which are in direct in the in there, and then put this into RDF and. I have direct references. Yeah, we make it queryable, but what we don't really do at the moment is a related to some high level conceptualization, and this is part of the future book that we plan if that answers the question. Yeah, he did. It does actually. Another questions like should this happen because there are a couple of people working on streaming RDF. So the question is should this happen in streaming framework and I think it should be. Also, that's actually where it all started from from this idea. Of doing a pseudo real time log analysis, some of the issues here. Of course the scalability and the yeah the limited scalability of the typical RDF stream processing engines, but we have a use case on that where we monitor file activity. For instance using C, sparkle and then linking this with background knowledge as well. So this is certainly something that would be ultimately very interesting to do. It's probably not so yeah, we have this one example use case which is student right out with nice results, but the one of the limitations could be the scalability of the approach, let's say. OK, thank you very much.
