Attempts our parallelization stems with shared memory start off in this exact spot, you take a serial code. It turns out Python, or at least C Python, which is the one that everybody uses, has a thing called the global interpreter lock. This interpreter basically can only do one thing at a time. This is not a restriction on the Python language, it's a restriction on the Python implementation, but it's nonetheless effect, so only one. This is what I intend to do. And then I'm going to wait for all processes and join them together. Sharing memory is done by using some special data types. Value an array so we have this special days that cold process that I used to create process is a value. So in essence you have a shared variables shared variable. So this creates a value of type integer zero. His V is variable, and so to access the value of the variable, I have to say V dot value. So I can do this. The mother process with the parent process and then the child process. Here's an example, so you have to call and you don't have to call, so I've got a function here that will be called by the child process, but not apparent, so they're going to process is. Then when I start I'm in the parent process. Wood. They are the child when it's not that return value is actually the PID. For those of you that did the accelerator track, another little rusty on the MPI MPI send from message passing interface and it's a CF API, so you can pull it just functions in C and Fortran and. Exact depending on your MPI implementation and see how many you want and what notes there on, although usually that's automatic. Basically, to gather the troops have already know where everybody is. Now, here's MPI for buy and it's it's a wrapper around the MPI library that it can do all the point to point communications, some collectives. This is a code that sends each process sends the rank to the process left of it or underneath it of lower rank. Each node I rank. The convenience and conciseness and clarity of Python is present in the MPI four PY interface, and it's quite nice. So we shouldn't have to specify what type it is, and in fact we don't. It could be an integer. A file and then you could read it up. Pickling is like writing in ASCII. Pickling them is like making them into an ASCII form and it can take like 100 times more than if you don't have to do this so. Add with NUM py you can you could you don't have to do this in the sense NUM PY arrays are perfectly suited to be sent by MPI. And so in this in this case, that communication is going to be almost as fast as if you sent the MPI. Directly in in C or Fortran. And this example computes the area under the curve. Not enough to do to see the difference in effect. Take the serial version or fairly simple and see if you can use multi processing or Nomex for for the code. Yes, and see what the what kind of speed up you get. So you could even do completely different code run by the child. There is a function for that called X LP. For all it knows, so if it isn't by some process, you have to give it. It's a very common framework. One comes out of the Python stable, so there's a price on parallel. If a master process and worker process, the master specifies what needs to be done and then gets shipped out to workers, then they give it back etc. Where's the data? And I bring I bring the work back to it. And then once the work is done, the results are sent back or filtered or somehow collected and then reels it goes back to the mastering and this could be repeated right? In these cases, OK, so the engine starter workers at the schedulers deliver, and if I'd work so they can see where the data lives in where it should go. This coordinates and logs that everything so. Executes are asked for certain work to be done that's given to the schedulers that separates the engine, and they eventually get that work back to the client and then just to make things extra complicated. You should be on your interactive node. You change the code directory if not there and set up sources set up if you haven't already. Hang in there, I'm waiting for. So how do we connect to the cluster where we have to go back, SSH back into bridges? Type in Python And we're principle sets. It might, it might not even live on the same node. And if it, even if it does, you have to move your data and your code to the engine. Not very nice if you're going to use it. Just make sure that you wait for your children to finish before you kill yourself. See these analogies at some point, just stop right. This should stop. Let's just call them something else but alright, and also make sure that you call OS Dot_exit when you exit Ng from the child. With simple examples that that it works well, so I'm going to stick to this first direct called Direct interface so we know exactly where the process better engines are and. We can run a script, so remember there's this. It can be useful. We can do and apply which which we saw takes a function argument, so they get shipped off to the engine, and then there's the map which is, which is a very interesting 1 two which takes again a function and then a list, but at least get split up. The map is like an open MP static scheduler and the load balancing is I can open MP dynamic scheduler. So here's a case where we're running on all the engines. But what if all the engines have a variable called circles here called X? It's fairly simple, I can just use a few and use it as a dictionary as well. But it also acts as a. So it can hide are asked if you to give me the list of the values of all of them, or I can specify a specific engine and get the value from there. You can just get together so that kind of makes sense if you have a list, like a list from 1 to 16 and scattered it over the view. Each of them gets a quarter of the of the list and they can gather it back so. When you're not doing map or you want to pre distribute data, this is the way you can do it and you can get it back after 2. I find it useful to take some data and just play with it and I'll give you some at the end. It's Facebook's daily logs of 60 terabytes. It's a Google map index that you wanted to reverse this more than 10 petabytes. Now if you if you imagine the cost of one terabyte disk is about 65, and you can only read that in about 3 hours, decides or little. So so you read this report is performing calculation right and then repeat, so it's very IO heavy and others performances as she would like. More stuff is kept in memory, and in fact the the default is to keep it in memory until you say save this file. There's other language wrappers available, particularly Python discussion. Won't have in Hadoop because everything gets computed and safe is lazy evaluation. This could be very useful. So in this case you talk about a driver program. And the driver is the one that sends that tells what to do and send to the workers. There's a second part that is very important and essential in Spark. I'm told him that, but their files that are already pre distributed they might live in memory and it probably will until you save them. Already distributed across workers, Brazilian blah blah blah. How about threads in Python? This should work if you want to start a setup section, make sure you have this interactive nodes and you've done source setup. You could source setup Spark but which which sets up worker process is Anna Master process. They probably don't have to do half the things here. I wouldn't call it, it's real, it's not an emulation, but it runs it locally on the node, and so in your in your dot local or something, there is a local spark installation Now, which you probably want to remove afterwards, but. They don't change, so whatever you manipulate the data, you get a new RDD back. That is distributed or they can have sort of a key key value form so they become a key value store which you get so key value really is you associated value and you give it a label and then you could do things based on that label based on that key. Now I think it'll do a pipeline, so you'll create an RDD from some data source. Well, there's a couple of things you can do this thing called mapping, which really in this case means each each element in RDD gets a function applied to it, and that gives you a new result. But maybe you want one big list, so just concatenates lists. You can reduce by key, which is useful if you say want to count the number of times the word whale occurs in the text of Moby Dick. They're not there, they follow the same sort of spawning ideas as four, but if they're still part of the same process, that's why they can still share memory among one one another. Python comes with a fully fledged. Thread mechanism and the threads share the same memory space so they can address space. Well, I mean OK, so some more about spreads, lightweights, simpler to program, share memory.