And so far in my collection I have over 40 different 1st order theories of time. Some of these theories used aimpoints, some use only time intervals, others combine both points and articles. So a few years ago, Jerry Hobbs and think Penn proposed a first order accusation of all time that it didn't have in my collection and it was proposed as an ontology for the web. Let's start to try to look at those ontologies in this kind of repository, and in particular use the relationships between these ontologies to assist us in this characterization, right? A common logic ontology repository. First of all, let's look through this repository for these kinds of theories that are actually definably equivalent to the ontology we're looking at. Then we'll specify the intended models of our technology and have a mathematical metatheory, and then actually prove the representation theorems. You know from from geometry, but this is a have a special, very restricted kind of geometry where all the lines are only incident with either one or two elements, one or two points and every point is incident with two different at least two different lines, one of which is kind of unique. And So what we often do in this case we kind of bought him out at a point where you can come up with some kind of explicit construction of these intended models. So if I take this kind of a graph. And then treat the kind of containment relation right that says whether a vertex is in a particular edge or not. So we've shown is that that this particular extension of of all time is definably equivalent to these other two pre existing mathematical. I want to try to understand and provide a characterization of the of all the possible models of this ontology up to isomorphism. Or how are they all related to each other? Also I want to know how is this ontology related to all the other ones in my collection? Is that actually the same? Moving on to the second module of interest, there are some axioms for inside, so the idea being that you have an interval of time and you can talk about some certain time points being inside of that interval. No one of the things we discovered though, was that we used mates, which is the model constructor software comes along with proven nine that we could actually construct a model of this sentence here, which says that even though the two endpoints of a time interval are linearly ordered, the points inside that interval do not need to be linearly ordered. This is a quote from the paper the concept of inside is not intended to include the beginnings and ends of intervals. So the endpoints are not supposed to be inside the interval, however. Some aspect of that original intuition. How do you specify with the intended models? Geometry pops up here and again it's interesting. It's more than more than an analogy. OK, so that's just kind of just a few highlights of how we used the the Glory Ontology repository to kind of prove representation theorems for all time and provide this kind of decomp modular decomposition. We identified you again, a few missing axioms that were needed to capture some intuitions that were reflected in the discussion of the original ontology. Another existing time ontologies. Kind of shows how that class of structures bottoms out in a very kind of obvious construction sort of way, and so that's what you would have to do this like with lattices, you use the stone representation theorem, so how lattices can be built up from sets of sets and so on. So now I want to understand well how are the actual models of my axioms related to the intended ones. So ideally I want those should be the same, right? And So what we call ontology verification in our lab is to try to come up with what we call a representation theorem, and we want to be able to say. On the one hand, we want to be able to say if a model is intended, then I want it to be one of the models of my ontology. And so we actually recast the notion of a representation theorem in terms of two different theorem proving tasks. So we're kind of building on top of the shoulders of Giants cliche that we're going to take a lot of the theories that mathematicians have been working on.