[0.0s - 29.0s]
So some people collect stamps. Some people collect works of art. I collect ontologies.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And so far in my collection I have over 40 different 1st order theories of time. Some of these theories used aimpoints, some use only time intervals, others combine both points and articles. So like anyone with with a collection, you always want another one. So a few years ago, Jerry Hobbs and think Penn proposed a first order accusation of all time that it didn't have in my collection and it was proposed as an ontology for the web. That includes both time points that they refer to as instance and also intervals. Now the relationship between these first order axioms in owl is purpose of another talk. But once I kind of acquired this.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Ontology. I wanted to understand well what did I actually get. What are these axioms? In what sense are they the right axioms that I would want to use when reasoning about time? So what I wanted to do was to take a look at these axioms and really analyze them thoroughly. I want to try to understand and provide a characterization of the of all the possible models of this ontology up to isomorphism. So like what are the different ways of interpreting the axioms in a way that makes sense? And also if you if you take, take a look at that original paper, there are a lot of axioms in there and in addition to axioms that is purely about time. There also some axioms about duration, and so I'm not going to be talking about the actions of duration this morning, but there are still about 40 three axioms leftover that are dealing strictly with time and so then again the question is 43 axioms. Or how are they all related to each other? And so another objective that I wanted to kind of accomplish here was to provide some notion of of modularization of this ontology. How can we take this ontology apart into smaller pieces? Also to identify, are there any you know missing accents? Are there any incorrect accents? You know there is this a good enough ontology to be able to use and. Also I want to know how is this ontology related to all the other ones in my collection? Is that actually the same? Just logically equivalent to one of the other ones I have? Or is it really different? And if it is different, you know how is it different?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So I just want to begin with just explaining what I mean by by verification. So this is an image taken from Nicholas Guarino, and the idea is that we when we're designing ontology, we capture what you might call a set of semantic requirements as a set of intended models. So there are certain intended intuitions that I want to capture with my models. On the other hand, I have the actions that I'm writing down, and if those actions are consistent, they will have some set of models. So now I want to understand well how are the actual models of my axioms related to the intended ones. So ideally I want those should be the same, right? I want to have all them all of my intended models to be actual models in my actual ontology and all the malls in my apology to be the intended ones. Now that's not always the case very often with ontologies, there may be certain unintended models. There may also be cases where there are certain models that you really do want, but they're not actually consistent with your ontology, so we want to try to understand then you again what are the intended models and how are they related to the ones we actually.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And So what we call ontology verification in our lab is to try to come up with what we call a representation theorem, and we want to be able to say. Is there some way some compact way mathematically that we can specify and classify all the different possible models of the ontology? And so there are two directions to this kind of approach. On the one hand, we want to be able to say if a model is intended, then I want it to be one of the models of my ontology. And in the other direction, we want to say, well, if it's a model. My apology then there better be an intended one. Again, if these two conditions are true, then everything kind of makes merges onto those.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Circles there, but if one of those conditions is false, you get this.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Of pick.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Sure. Now the other thing is. You can do these kinds of theorems mathematicians have been doing these kinds of theorems for decades, but often it's done manually and in the meta theory and what we wanted to do here was actually to do this verification automatically, so we want to be able to use generic 1st order theorem provers off the shelf. We used prover. Nine was one of my favourites, but maybe a little more obscure these days, but the idea being that this is just a generic kind of 1st order theorem prover. And so we actually recast the notion of a representation theorem in terms of two different theorem proving tasks. So what we do is. We take a particular we take our ontology. And we have some set of mapping axioms to some set of other theories and we can then ask a theorem prover. Well, is it the case that if I take the access of my ontology together with some set of these translation definitions, these ontology mappings I can actually prove automatically some set of other actions in other theories? And the other way around, can I take for some set of theories and with some set of mapping axioms and actually prove the access of my apology 'cause the idea is what we're going to do is we're going to describe the models of our ontology that we're looking at and try to reduce it to looking at the models of other pre existing theories that are very well understood. So we're kind of building on top of the shoulders of Giants cliche that we're going to take a lot of the theories that mathematicians have been working on. Logicians have been working on. And to show in what sense can we take the new ontologies that we're working on and show that they can be built up from the models of these other earlier theories?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Now their first response to this kind of idea is, hey, this is way too hard. Usually the first response is OK. This can't be done, and then we show the well it could be done, but then it's like, well, OK, you lucked out on that one. This is still really hard. So like one of the big.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Question is, where did these theories? T1 through TN? Where do they come from? You know, they just magically appear to me. After beer, some late night.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So the idea is, well, let's take advantage of maybe a repository. I have this collection of ontologies around. Let's start to try to look at those ontologies in this kind of repository, and in particular use the relationships between these ontologies to assist us in this characterization, right? So what we want to do again is construct the models of our ontology using the models of other.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Apologies. That's all along this line. We are constructing the glory in the Glory project. A common logic ontology repository. So it's an open repository for or first order logic ontologies, and you can find one website there. The Glory site has the Toronto has the kind of the archive of all the finished work, and there's a Google code site where you can upload your favorite 1st Order Logic Ontology and have other people do the evaluation.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So then the approach that I'll be talking about today will be. First of all, let's look through this repository for these kinds of theories that are actually definably equivalent to the ontology we're looking at. In this case, all time. Then we'll specify the intended models of our technology and have a mathematical metatheory, and then actually prove the representation theorems. But we'll do it using a theorem.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And as a side effect of this, we ended up with this modularization of our time. So the 43 axioms outside of duration. So all time durations over there on the right, but the remaining, say 43 axioms we discovered could be decomposed into six other modules and the solid arrows indicate what's known as a conservative extension, so that that means that that as you're combining these theories and extending them, you're not kind of making any new kinds of inferences that he couldn't already making. Earlier kind of module. And making these modules arose not kind of out of some kind of design sort of of criteria. These modules arose out of the fact that there is some set of theories within the repository that's just kind of see this kind of growing union of other theories. So each of these theories on the left hand side are theories that were in the glory repository. And so then this AL Time instance module ends up being equivalent to this other theory of. Semi linear ordering and so on, and so I'll be taking a brief tour. I'm not going to be exhaustive, I just want to hit some of the highlights, both methodologically, but also some of the other kinds of ramifications.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Of this work. So first of all, we one technique that we often kind of use is, well, OK. If one problem maybe is a little too difficult, let's try to solve a slightly different problem and then show how we can use that solution back to the original so we start off over here in the lower right hand side, there's Al time interval, so some set of axioms there, and what we want to do is to say well, see all time interval actually looks at time points as an arbitrary partial ordering. I know there's one thing we can kind of argue over, whether that's kind of a valid sort of ontological commitment. Perhaps during the questions, but one of the things that we considered was extending the ontology slightly to add semi linear ordering. You can also consider then whether or not time intervals have actual endpoints. So initially we were considering the case where the end the intervals do have endpoints and so the in this particular diagram here, the dashed lines indicate what's called non conservative extension. So that means in each of these cases we're starting off with a particular set of axioms and adding some some new axioms so that we can make new kinds of inferences. So there are certain inferences you can make if time points are going to call the semilinear ordering. It's like a tree branching forward into the future. You can add additional axioms so it makes time into a line. You can make new inferences from that. I will kind of revisit this diagram in a little later on because this shows how it's also related to the other ontologies in the repository. But what we what we started off with an overall just describe briefly. I mean, let's say in the paper we can look at a lot of other kind of variations here, but I wanted to just take a particular look at this theory. That's up here. On the top is Al Time LEU, which is our time extended with linear ordering, overtime points and also guaranteeing that the. That the intervals have have endpoints.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So in order to 1st characterize what these models were in, kind of looking through the repository and and found a particular theory, and in this case this particular theory was from a actually a kind of a branch of mathematics is closely related to geometry, so this is kind of interesting sort of discovery made that when you're looking at time concepts of geometry are actually used quite a bit, even though they were kind of dealing with sort of a 1 dimensional sort of concept. And in particular from geometry borrowing this idea of what's called an incident structure, and this was introduced by by David Hilbert over 100 years ago when he asked me ties, Euclidean geometry, and so the idea of what's called a loop graphical incident structure is that you have basically two sorts of things you can think of that knows lines and points, and this particular relation called in you know this is a particular point, is in a line. So again, you can think of this. You know from from geometry, but this is a have a special, very restricted kind of geometry where all the lines are only incident with either one or two elements, one or two points and every point is incident with two different at least two different lines, one of which is kind of unique. So the idea then is OK. Well, we can reuse this mathematical theory again that that was introduced well initially kind of introduced over 100 years ago. But then the question becomes, well, OK. How do I know these relatively unintuitive sort of description? How do I know that these kinds of structures exist, right? So if I'm just replacing one class of unknown structures related to Al time with some other class of unknown structures that I'm calling incident structures, have I really gained anything? Do I really have any insight into what my model is really are? And So what we often do in this case we kind of bought him out at a point where you can come up with some kind of explicit construction of these intended models. So it turns out that in this particular case here, suppose you start off with a complete graph with loops 'cause you have a complete graph, and then you also have a set of edges that attach a vertex to itself. That's what's called the loop. So if I take this kind of a graph. And then treat the kind of containment relation right that says whether a vertex is in a particular edge or not. That structure ends up being isomorphic to this particular class of instant structures. OK, now that theorem is proved in the metatheory. But that's kind of the idea that we bought him out at this point. Now this class of incident structures is acclimatised within the glory repository.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So then the second step that we need to do is to provide what we call translation definitions and so we have D1 being the top part here. So what we're doing is defining in this case. Uh, the language of incident structure. So what the point is with the line is with this incidence relation is we're seeing a point in geometry is equivalent to an instant in the our time and the incidence relation in this mathematical theory is either the begins or ends relation within alt. I'm on the other side. Here we have some more complicated mappings that begins relation in Al time is equivalent to that particular formula within the language of this. This class of instant structures.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So then if we we have these mappings right, we can now show is. Again we did this. We gave us approval 9 and we could show that our time plus these translation definitions could entail all the axioms of linear ordering and all the axioms of this class of mathematical structures and using other mappings we could go the other way around. So we've shown is that that this particular extension of of all time is definably equivalent to these other two pre existing mathematical. Series and what that we can kind of conclude from that is that the models of this particular module within our time are completely characterized by models of linear orderings, which we understand very well. An models of these incidents, structures which I showed in the previous slide. I think we understand pretty well.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Do. Now then, what would this also allows us to do then is to compare. The this kind of this module within our time to other pre existing theories of time. And I just want to draw attention. There's a theory down here called Tevilah, which was introduced by Villa in 2005 and it turns out that it's the maximal shared sub theory between some of the theories that Pat Hayes introduced in his catalogue of temporal theories back in the 90s. The two, the two theories being endpoints and vector continuum, and so these. These axioms reveal introduced in 2005. Like this is kind of the maximal shared sub theory between those two. But then there's an extension of that to what are called moments. Moments are our time intervals that have only one time point is like a time point, itself is the entire interval. Now I'll time enforces the existence of moments. So Alpine flat Alpine, lul. We can also show that that's equivalent to Vilas theory extended with the with the existence of moments. Now a car.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Sequence of that is that. It's inconsistent with then. This theory of endpoints from Pat Hayes, Temple theory, so now that's not necessarily a problem, but it's something we need to be aware of that if for some reason people wanted to use this other theory of endpoints, they we now know that that would be inconsistent if used without time, you don't need to use that, But again, we just need to be.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Where about? Moving on to the second module of interest, there are some axioms for inside, so the idea being that you have an interval of time and you can talk about some certain time points being inside of that interval. No one of the things we discovered though, was that we used mates, which is the model constructor software comes along with proven nine that we could actually construct a model of this sentence here, which says that even though the two endpoints of a time interval are linearly ordered, the points inside that interval do not need to be linearly ordered. Which again seems a little odd, not necessarily a problem, but it seems a little strange, and so we introduced this additional axiom to enforce that the time points between the time points that are inside an interval are also linearly or.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
There was also another intuition that Hobson Penn wanted to capture, which was the. This is a quote from the paper the concept of inside is not intended to include the beginnings and ends of intervals. So the endpoints are not supposed to be inside the interval, however. Again, we were able to use Mace to construct models actually falsify each of those sentences that each of these captures. Some aspect of that original intuition. So in other words, our time is not strong enough to eliminate models that falsify those, so these would be unintended models that I showed earlier.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So again, we introduced and did some additional sentences to eliminate these unintended.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Models. And so then this is just an example of when I was saying. How do you specify with the intended models? Are. This is kind of the formal kind of mathematical English way of describing them. Geometry pops up here and again it's interesting. Uses notions of between us notions of incident, so again, very geometric sorts of notions that are used to capture the relationship between time points at time intervals. It's more than just an analogy, right? People often think of intervals being line like things. It's more than more than an analogy. It's it's actually kind of arises out of the formalism.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And the final kind of module just want to mention is this notion of eventualities which Hobson can introduce to capture event state and state like sorts of concepts. Now in this case here.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
We had to really kind of reach far and I. I was debating whether or not to show this kind of slide, but this actually got into some very elaborate sorts of again linearly ordered geometry to capture it. In this case here you have to go to the this idea. We have planes that contain lines that contain points and the idea again being here more than an analogy, but the idea being that eventualities play are kind of our. Mapped into the notion of plane, so plane will contain a set of of lines, and each of those lines contained a set of points is the eventualities that are correspond to the plane. The intervals correspond to the lines, and the points correspond to the. Instance.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So again, you can define. You can have these translation definitions so that the incidence relation in this very elaborate geometry is equivalent to either inside relation or the during relation or the at time relation within Alpine. That module of all time, and then the inverse mappings here.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Bottom So once you kind of collected all of these different theories and shown using proven that we have these equivalences, you can construct them the full representation theorem for for all of our time, and so the thing I want to draw attention to here is that you can build up the models of your ontology. By combining the models of your sub theories so each there's kind of a one to one correspondence between the substructures and the modules that you saw earlier on the earlier slide. And we can guarantee because of this modular structure, that you can combine these substructures in a way that doesn't lead to any kinds of interactions. So the modularity of the of the theory corresponds to the way that combine ability.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Are these substructures? OK, so that's just kind of just a few highlights of how we used the the Glory Ontology repository to kind of prove representation theorems for all time and provide this kind of decomp modular decomposition. We identified you again, a few missing axioms that were needed to capture some intuitions that were reflected in the discussion of the original ontology. We also characterized what the different relationships there are between the all time axioms. Another existing time ontologies. So now some next steps here would be to actually go and revisit the messy duration accents and they really are are messy, so it's going to be quite a challenge, so that's one step there and the other step is to look at how eventualities and those axioms are related to existing process ontologies. So with time again, there's a lot of work that's been done over the decades, and so we're able to do a very rich mapping into all the existing time ontologies with process ontologies, not such a rich collection. And so that's kind of another thing we want to be able to do. Thank you very much. So around the turn of the last century for the Hilbert work, for example, a lot of the non Euclidean geometry's were just beginning to emerge and when you put in axioms or when you take out axioms for example that require that perpendicular lines meet only once you get closer to what modern physics is sees as time. Do you think you can extend this stuff to to what physicists would be interested in currently in quantum mechanical problems? Oh yeah, no, that's that's that's really interesting question. So one of the things that we also want to try to do in general with ontology construction is really, really motivated by certain kinds of problems that people have. An so definitely that if we wanted to look at particular kinds of applications to understand well what time ontology does, that particular application need and and definitely kind of use that sort of idea. Yeah, yeah, like you have venom in his logic of time. Kind of looks at some other relativistic time etc. And then looking at those particular models there. But those weren't really axiomatized actually, so there's a lot of classes of of models that I actually haven't maximized and put into our repository, so I'd be interesting kind of extension. If I understood right, then for your for your approach you need some known theories right? What if there are no known theories in order to characterize the ontology? Did you have this this case also? Well, yeah, actually the this particular case here. This class of theories really didn't exist before hand, and so we had to kind of reconstruct that ourselves in a way so so in a in a worst case scenario, what we're doing is creating. New problems for mathematicians, which might be nice. I know that you're creating new mathematics in a way because if you want to try to again, reduce everything that you are trying to understand better into something that is well understood and there are going to be cases where we in fact do introduce new mathematics, OK, maybe that's being a little overblown, but you know there is a certain possibility. But doesn't that mean that you have to construct these models actually, right? So that's kind of what we know what ended up happening. See here to this bottom theorem here. Kind of shows how that class of structures bottoms out in a very kind of obvious construction sort of way, and so that's what you would have to do this like with lattices, you use the stone representation theorem, so how lattices can be built up from sets of sets and so on. So there's always a case where you bought him out on some very explicit sort of construction. Thanks for the very interesting presentation. I just quickly want to ask about the missing axioms you mentioned that you identify those just to clarify, what were those? So when one axiom being the linearly ordering over time points that are inside an interval, so the end points have to be linearly ordered, but the original axioms allow them to have to be incomparable if they are inside. And the other additional axioms revealed that guaranteed that the endpoints of a time interval or not inside the interval. Now that was again a quote up there. So that was an original intended model, so you know if the authors original authors could say, well, OK. We actually found out that maybe will relax that requirement and so in that case you could say OK with. These accents weren't needed, but then you would go back and change the definition of the intended models. So there's always that kind of dialogue between ontology design. An apology verification. There were a few other axioms that like sort axioms to say, for example that. Certain things are eventualities. You know that the arguments have to be typed, etc. But those are trivial. Little accident. I didn't really. Draw too much attention. These were the more interesting accents that were missing. Thank you.
