[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon, my name is Greg Doyle. I am based in the Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of Cape Town in South Africa and my role is. Jill. So initially I started off doing just support. I'm the learning manager, so we do. We manage all the support of E learning in the faculty or the use of E learning. But then also I've been asked to teach some courses, so I convene a face to face course and I'm also involved in some staff development activities. So my role is deal to certain degree.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So I don't want to talk about is the opportunity provided by this project as well as the motivation why we got involved. The collaboration which I think was a great bonus and plus but then also about the openness and the affordances that Dad had in this project.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So when this opportunity arose and the call went out, what struck me was those two points to design and implement a course, and also to make your ideas come true. If I had to think where they would like to participate or be part of this, I wouldn't have done it. Because. I had to try to design a new course with a new staff member that started, so without thinking I said yes I want to do it. And thinking OK and realizing this will be sorted out later. Let me just say yes for now without concerning or take in consideration the time it will take to participate in this project.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So that was my idea for the project. To create an online course about how to create an online course. What is difficult is that there's a lot of material out there already, so the one thing that I had to consider was what would be different in the way that I would like to do it. That even if you considered there are a lot of institutions that do blended learning so they might not do online learning. But what I thought of is to do a course that will be applicable in those situations as well, because blended learning is basically online learning plus face to face. So whether somebody would like to use this in an online environment or blended environment, it had to be suitable for both those those instances. If I looked at.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The challenges that we face when it comes to open education. Even though open education and online courses is all a good idea and you think about how many people it will reach, the challenges associated with that are also very real. There's unequal access to resources that even though it's online, you still need a device and bandwidth or data to be able to reach the online. The access to Internet is definitely unreliable. An unequal in Africa in particular, but then also looking at the range of digital literacies. That you would need to be able to participate in an online course. So the course does not provide the answers to all those questions or issues, but it does highlight that those are the things that you need to consider when you want to. When you want to run an online course.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
At the time that the call went out, we also had the fees must fall movement in South Africa, so the students protested for free education. An equal access to higher education, so the University unexpected unforeseeable had to be closed for a period of time. A couple of weeks, So what management thought the senior leadership thought was if we move everything online, the academic program will be able to continue. Obviously that those had issues Becausw #1, the faculty members, ask, how do I do that? Because even though we use blended learning adult situation, which is the face to face institution, going totally online is different and a lot of the faculty members. They don't know how to do it. From the students point of view, they said we paid for face to face. Teaching you expect me not to go online. No, I'm not going to do that. So even though that's a good idea, the student said no. But it also highlighted the fact how unprepared we are to go online an since this is happening in South Africa. It is come to light that the unexpected closure of an institution also happens in other places in the world. That this is not just a South African issue in other parts of the world that earthquakes, they're flooding. They've got electricity issues, so this might not just be applicable to the South African context, but also worldwide.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So then talking again again about what are the benefits of online learning and that is what the course tries to explores as well that. It doesn't necessarily replace the face to face content if you're doing blended learning, but it definitely can help. There's a large database of oh, you are out there and sometimes the issue is not so much that our R that is out there, but how to find it. And that is the one question that faculty always come to us about. Is it? How do I get to that what I need and they don't have time to work out? How do I do this online? They want to model. They want a template. And this is what this course tries tries to do.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So what really worked well was the collaboration. Those are my two mentors. Professor Column is a UNESCO chain technologies. I just feel privileged by my bar. My mentors. I think I've got the best mentors in this whole program. And Carmen is a Dean of faculty in engineering. She's director of Open Education Center. She's got lots of experience when it comes to technology. Colin had lots of experience when it came to teaching and it was amazing that how they complemented each other. That Colin would come and say, you want to do this. But what about the more mature teachers? Of which he agreed he was one of them. How would you cater for them? And Carmen will come and say, but we've used this in different scenarios. This is the technology that really work, so that so that we really worked well. We also had regular meetings. We had 14 meetings in the last five and a half months, which is almost more than biweekly and their regular feedback really helped me. The expert advice, the guidance, the point is to information. Anne. Just the ideas in terms of from a previous teaching. We use the Google Doc for all our meetings and the content, so everything was there we could go back to different different nodes they could follow up with that I actually do what I said I was going to do and that really helped me. The problems or the challenges were. I tried to. I'm trying to do too much. If you think about online learning and just all the things that you can cover. It is a broad topic, so most of the five and a half months were spent on synthesizing the content into manageable but and also making sure that it's faced or etc reduction level for anybody to be able to access, and in reality it takes more than five months to create an online course, so it was rushed among every among everything else that was happening, but. The cause of them it really worked or it is where this at the moment. If it wasn't for them, I'll probably be 20% of the way along.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The openness in terms of OUR and what it affords that really was well made a difference, an understanding the openness of the importance of open learning. Getting a opportunity to understand the affordances of the Creative Commons, licensing the different models of online learning. The benefits and challenges of online learning. So all of that was the cause of openness and that really helped in in terms of the course.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
In terms of the sustainability goals, it's definitely SDG. 4 but I still feel that it's linked to SG-10 as well, but as it was it this morning, the SG goals are definitely interlinked that they not stand alone on their own.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So that is the modules that that's in the course. And the way that or what is in the course are. Certificate So participants if they complete all the activities will get a certificate short courses to ficat of completion from the University of Cape Town. In terms of what they need to do the activities. MCQS are out so there will be no multiple choice questions because if you look at the learning that happens and risk, unless you're really unless you design really, really good MCQ questions, there's not much learning that happens. Participants can go and choose anything that they want to and that happens in our formative assessments at the institution, so we'll have no will have no MCQ. So the activities need to be. Context based and the one thing that call and tried to one of my mentors trying to to help me with these that hard to incorporate peer learning that the peer learning and peer pressure is what will help disciplines to complete the course. The other aspect that is included as well an what again they help me with is that we in the course different questions are dealt with in different modules. So through the my mentors they emailed everybody that they know in terms of UNESCO in terms of O ER to ask them to do a short video clip for me into that I could include into into the into the course and surprising there how many of them said yes. So I have at the moment I've got about. Video clips in the program with different experts on online learning and we are an UNESCO professionals or with expertise talks about a little bit about what is happening and I think that is what will make a difference in the course. And again that is what I mean when I talk about the affordances of how we are that causes the courses for free 'cause people are passionate about though are they would not mind space sending me their videos most of the time. It I institution where we ask our lectures. Or faculty members to video record themselves. More than half of them will say no. I don't like videos. I don't want to be recorded. You don't pay me enough for my makeup etc etc etc.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So, so this is one of the videos that we receive and I'll just play the first few minutes or the first minute, 'cause they're all very short. Hello everyone, my name is Daniel Rubles. I'm the head for international research at University app. This is an online University. We deal with the valve 30,000 students. One person public remembers we are very much focused on integration learning. Ally is open innovation and anything related to make life better for students and features for better learning. Whether teaching I have a question here, plans are for these open allocation resource, which is. What are some of the challenges. Associated with creating an online calls, we hear us people. If you want to watch the rest of the videos on YouTube. And all the other videos on YouTube as well because it's open. You anybody can go and watch those videos and what was great is that I benefit in terms of from their expertise and then giving their time. But they also able to go and put themselves up there. So if you want to know more about the institution about what they're doing, there is all of this. So that was definitely a win win situation.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
In terms of the course itself, so 99% of the course is done. There's also a little bit of cleaning up to do, but in the next couple of weeks it will be done and then we will pilot it. The marketing and advertising. In the past when we did marketing and advertising, we use Google, Facebook, LinkedIn and I'm hoping that I would get some more ideas at at this for during this week in terms of also hard to do further marketing again, word of mouth works always. So everybody that's here. I will spam you and I will send you the link once the course is up for you to be able to distribute to your your colleagues as well, we want to do a pilot course first just to fine tune the content so that is coming up and we definitely will be running this course at least annually for the next three years. So that is there is definite. And then because this is only introductory, will consider what is what is Part 2 of the course.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
In terms of lessons learned, etc, or what worked well for me, the thing that worked well with the main tools that they advise their input. That that's well, except for mission on yet and the support from the program. Obviously the project support the timing worked well because it was at a time when we needed to do move more online. The one thing that. There was a challenge was time in terms of making time to do this. I think in terms of what? Would had what would help me in terms of effect to do this again or for others I think to have a toolkit I think you mentioned it as well at a toolkit with templates and tools so you don't have to go through the whole process of how to do an online course, but that is provided and you just have to focus on the content because I'm going to have to focus on the content, how to put it together, how the platform, the marketing, the advertising. So all of that. Took time where the content was the one where they should be. Should have focus on. But I also think the freedom for me to choose. I think that was great, so I really appreciated that. And also I know that the continued support that I will get this week. I'm also looking forward to Wednesday session about the platform because that for me is my major decision at the moment. Which platforms which platforms are available that will not charge me where I can still get all the statistics and all the content will remain are we are and will not be taken away. So those are my other things that I need to consider the moment. But yeah, thank you very much.
