[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so Graham yesterday made a very. Nostalgic allusion to AI in the 70s and 80s. Narrow which was coming to an end when I started doing research, but which I still would still informs my view of the world and that is this hacker approach to AI where you'd use lists for you used Prolog and you wrote a lot of your own code, but you downloaded libraries or dumps of Lisp or Prolog from from archives on the Internet. This is before the web and you hacked it all together with a bit of chewing gum and string and spackle. Command line wizardry. And we did all sorts of cool stuff that stayed up long enough to give a demo and then died a slow death. On postgraduate machines, but like someone buried alive. Oh, the codes over there on sound source machine. If I wanted to I could get it up and running again, but I'm not in the mood. How so? Demos were a very different thing those days. There was a more freewheeling spirit about sharing code, but it was also harder to do software engineering. In AIA. I was not a user of software engineering practices, it was very much a hacker experience. Now we need to get some critical mass in this field of computational creativity. Really exciting to come to conferences and events and see people demo doors, their stuff. It reminds me of the Golden days of AI. We still have a philosophy of oh that's on my laptop or that's on sound source laptop and I'll show you the next time we meet. I have this view that we should be put pushing everything we do onto the web so that it becomes a web experience for anybody who wants to use it now. The pain of maintaining that web experience can be really soul crushing because you have this server that you think OK, it's up and running. Then some assclown in Hong Kong uses your machine for denial of service attack. And the Higher Education Authority shuts you down because you're drenching the Irish Internet with terabytes of unwanted data and you have to get your machine back up. Then it's a power cut over a long weekend in the University won't turn your machine back on until Tuesday. And then we do think everything is OK. Google says you are a purveyor of malware Sir, 'cause they remember the Hong Kong Assclown who ruined your reputation on the web and you have to fight with Google to have your site reviewed and taken off their blacklist. Because otherwise anybody who tries to use your services told Go no further. You are entering a zone of. Maliciousness so if you put all of that aside. The pain of maintaining a web presence for our software. The benefits are that people can use our software via the web without having to download codes. There always using the most up to date version. They're using an API that delivers what they need in XML. Anna promote the mashing up of everybody's technologies into Uber systems that have emergent properties. They're not simply combinations of system A&B, but they give rise to emergent qualities C&D that no one ever expected, and we. Can have a Golden age of computational creativity on the web where we share each others stuff and we build on it. As simply as using Lego blocks, that's the vision. That's why I want to promote computational creativity as a web service, not as a piece of software that you're happy to give someone on the USB stick, but as a service that offers some guarantees about what it will give you an. It will say, this will make your life easy if you want to have metaphors in your system. Well, I would have said read my papers and try to implement my ideas and when things get bad, talk to me and I'll hold your hand. Now I say you want metaphors in your system you're going to have to spend a whole hour connecting your software to my service and then your servers or my service will give you metaphors on demand for any topic you like when you need it. There is a tradeoff that's worth having right? Having creativity on tap via web services that other applications can tap into without having to implement our algorithms, which are frankly fluid OK. And an evolving thing without having to deal with her heterogeneous data stores and representations on our issues, you just say here is a service. We hide the complexity of everything we do behind the service. All you see is a simple Web API and will give you whatever you need in XML like that. Alright, now there are downsides. Simon asked me can I use your web service on a plane? Can I use it on a boat? It was really a doctor Seuss teaching moment for me to have to answer these questions. No, you cannot use my web service on a plane. Can you use Twitter on a plane? No. So why aren't you talking to Twitter instead of bugging me about this? Yeah, there are problems with having distributed software and having to need a live web connection to use it as hackers. We like to have the code on our laptop so we can run them in the cafe and airport. But we're not going to be hackers or lies. We are providing services and opportunities for industry. Industry will find it much easier to adopt our approach to computational creativity if we bundle it as easy to use web services as opposed to algorithms, an ideas and bits of codes on USB sticks. So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The idea innovation is served. Why get industry to try to copy our ideas when they can just use our web services? Now what's a web service or web services? A web implementation? Of a service oriented architecture which Thomas Erl defines as an architectural model that aims to enhance the efficiency, agility, and productivity of an enterprise by positioning services as the primary means through which solution logic is presented. In other words, there is a solutions on demand via a service that. Is discoverable on the web. If you say I need a service to do X, there's a directory that will help you find the service to do X help you or help yourself where autonomous. There isn't a room full of people pretending to be computers in some poor part of the world. Getting paid 3 cents for every metaphor that's generated the computer is doing it. It's all bundled up. We're not talking about crowdsourcing. We're talking about free creativity from web services. They are reusable, so I create a web service for metapher and it's good for me, but other people can use it in ways I never anticipated. Right should be flexible enough to compose into groups of web services that I never anticipated to act as part of an architecture I never envisioned. When we put our stuff out in the world's web services, what comes back to us? Is a surprising use of our code that can be very, very rewarding. They have to be loosely coupled. That's good software design. You don't want to make your objects or your class is dependent on each other because then codependency is a bad thing with humans and which software systems services should maintain minimal state information. We want to keep them light and frisky. We want them to gamble and cavort on the web, not to be late, and I'll get back to you tomorrow with meta. For if you don't mind. OK, that's the old model and they should really, and this is really important. They should hide their complexity. We don't want them blowing their own horn and saying let me tell you what I'm doing now as part of my effort to give you a matter for you should say you ask for a metaphor. Here is, here's another 100, just in case you want another 100 hairstyles and taken thousands. We want these things to be the perfect servants, right? On demand, answerable accountable. And so on.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, so this actually mirrors what happens in a large organization. Creative people are difficult, right? Most of us here are difficult people you have seen that exemplified in many ways in the past few days we are cranky, crotchety, territorial. If we don't have our coffee at the right time, then the rest of the day is a misery for everyone else. Creativity in an organization cannot depend on that you think of Apple as an amazingly creative company, but you would be amazed at how much they outsource creativity to consultancy firms. The secret of one of the secrets of jobs success with his willingness to use the best consultancy's to get things done now, people say, isn't that cheating paying someone to be creative for you? Well, external creative agencies are not creative for you. What they do is they provide you with an expanded. Set of divergent options. You are still responsible from choosing amongst the options there, just simply extending the palette of options for you. So jobs in Apple. Was exercising creative control over what the agencies were giving him. Give him 10 ideas and he'd pick one and our web services can do the same. Matter for web service and give you 10 metaphors on your application can pick the one that works best for your application at the time of its need. Now the idea of having an external creative agency means that these guys end up working on money briefs for many companies, and they build up this diverse experience. So a company and external agency that works for Apple can bring their experience with Apple to bear when you hire them. So there are a reservoir of knowledge and learning that accumulates from many different briefs. In many different contexts, so you're actually tapping in to the benefits of Apple's experiences when you hire A consultancy firm that has been working with Apple.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So in software ubig software systems like a big organization, it has competing needs. You want disciplined information flow, an hierarchical organization, but you also want the system to be creative, which means that you want to violate that hierarchical organization and disciplined information flow when it benefits you. If you have software services that are providing the creativity, then the main application can be disciplined and boring, but outsource the creative bits. To our services and there will be a marketplace of services, maybe all competing to provide metaphors. So maybe Veals Metapher Emporium is only one service on the web and current discount metaphors is a competing service right? I wouldn't use a service that had the word discount in the title, but other people might be more open minded about that. So you discover a service and you say, oh, this is actually one of 10 services that provide metaphors. But this service over here doesn't filter adult language. This service so I can't be using the metaphors they give me in an application that might be used by children. This service over here is fast, but the metaphor is really suck, or God or awful. This service over here is parameterized. I can ask it for family friendly metaphors on any topic, and it's fast. I'll pick that service. Imagine a marketplace of services that you could choose from. I mean it would be utopian state. And again, no need to implement this fluid state of the art in CC if we can call it that. Remember, as CC researchers, we don't really build distinctive algorithms. There is no, as far as I can see, no distinctive algorithm that marks us out as CC researchers. No distinctive data structure that marks assets. We are a user of ideas. It is how we synthesize them that makes US special as a community. On these services can provide that. That special source to other outside communities as well.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So basically on the semantic web, we can have a whole bunch of services advertising their capabilities and their API's. And you say, oh, I need a metaphor generation service, but I'd like to be able to filter the metaphors by affect, so I maybe need a service that can do that, or a compose it with the filtering service that can filter by affect. And then I want to be able to take this mapping generated by metapher and tightly integrated so that it becomes a full fledged conceptual blend. Is there a service that will take a metaphor and turn it into a blend and give me? Emergent properties and given this blend, can I turn into a poem, give me a poem. Give me 10 poems for this blend from this metapher. Maybe I want to turn it into kinetic typography. This floating flying text. And upload it as a video to YouTube. The ecosystem of services should provide all of this capability and we simply compose them. That is the vision.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, so let's look at a few services. These are when I call him services. I'm not really using the semantic Web service idea in its technical glory. I'm simply providing web applications that can be accessed by U true value or parameterized URL to get back XML that you can use to drive your code. OK.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Let's first think about divergent reasoning, which I've captured here in the most obvious way possible, and you look at this and you think, oh, he's talking about convergent reasoning. The Linnaean taxonomy, they be all and end of convergent reasoning in science. In DeLand taxonomy, every species has its place an every place as a species. OK, so carless Linnaeus invented this taxonomy so that there would be 1 right place for every living thing on the planet and you could compare and contrast them depending on their place in the hierarchy. It is a true convergent system because there is 1 right answer for every species. And everything else is a wrong answer. Is 1 way of categorizing. Dylan and Taxonomy does not permit creativity. You cannot taxonomize poets as Flowers in the Linnaean taxonomy. It just won't allow it. It says opposes a human being. You mean a Homo sapiens and Homo sapiens is a Homo, which is a human aid, which is a primate which is a mammal which is a chordate, which is an animal and I thank you. That's what the lens system does feel. If you compare armadillos, these beautiful animals you get in America, North and South, this is a Texas armadillo. Then there in the animal Kingdom, the chordate phylum, which means they have a spinal cord. There are mammals, which means they are hairy and Milky. Cingulata, which means that they are made up of overlapping plates. There dozie Padai day, which means that there does he provide a. Which specifically means that during the genocide, as he puts and this guy here is a 9 banded armadillo. So he is odazzi post novem cinctus. Look at this humans. Much armadillos right down to the Linnaean class, so if you were being really crude about it, you could say that we share three out of seven Linnaean levels with armadillos, so humans are about 42% similar to armadillos, whereas primates are about 50% similar hominids like. Australopithecus africanus, Lucy. To her friends she was 65% Neanderthal. About 70% similar tools, Homo habilis, the tool user 80% Homo erectus 85%. Everyone in here 100% similar to each other, 'cause I'm assuming that we're all Homo sapiens, and he writes that we may have to start of Homo superior or some new branch of the humankind is whenever you have a bunch, a room full of smart people. As always, the threat of this since you made similar according to the Linnean taxonomy, Dylan and Taxonomy does not admit of any differences amongst us. Because they the most specific thing that can say about is is that were Homo sapiens, if you wanted to capture the say that I knew is more similar to Oscar than he is to Raquel, you need a more detailed ontology, right? And the name taxonomy doesn't branch like that. Doesn't rock up like that as some would say it's a very convergent system. Now to support creativity you need divergent, which means that you have to be able to classify things very differently depending on context. We saw that already. OK.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So here is Karl Lagerfeld. He's an escape from Zoolander. He really is one of the world's great super villains, Karl Lagerfeld. Everything he says is so quotable. So he's talking about these weird sunglasses, which are the least weird thing about him actually, and he says my sunglasses. They are a burger for my eyes. Actually this is very clever guy, so if you were to use a standard convergent taxonomy, you'd say bercuson sunglasses are kind of far apart. Carl, what the hell are you talking about? Burgers are like dresses like uniform so sunglasses you wear them so they're wearable. What do you think he means by the way? Sunglasses are a broker for my eyes. What do you think Carl means? Yeah, but everyone uses sunglasses like that, specially after a night like last night. It means that they they provide privacy. There are an item of clothing that protects his being from outside scrutiny. OK, that's a positive view of a Burkett. You could without getting controversial. Many people can classify ubercart in many different ways, right? Depending on your your religion and so forth, you might think of it as a suit of armor that protects the wearer. You might think of it as a portable cage. I would never say that, but. You might think of it that way. There's many different ways of classifying these things, and that's what creativity is all about. So, Carl. Cooper, Carl here recognizes that. The convergent way of classifying workers in sunglasses is in very revealing and that there is probably some extra divergent categorisation that unites them in much more meaningful way.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
OK, so objects in mirror are closer than they look. Burgers are quite close to sunglasses if you recognize them as two members of this mysterious category, which might be dark items of clothing that protect the wearer's privacy, right? That's a big mouthful for category, isn't it? Which is pretty much why it's not in Word net, but we need to be able to invent these things on the fly to be creative, and we do it all the time. Carl invented this. You all reinvented it to understand his metapher can computers do this? You're not going to get creativity with word net. That's not a digger word. Netkas word net is not meant to be creative.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Remember good old Tony Blair? And a journey. See it's already half price this this thing it flamed quickly. Someone has moved it into the crime. Shelf work belongs so. People have recognized that the ontology provided by the book Shop system. This is a biography, so it should be in the biography section is a convergent category system, but we can invent, invent our own categorizations based on its content, and there may be a million ways of categorizing this book. It might be an ideal meal for a goat's goal to love to read paper, or they like to eat paper. There's a lot of ways we can categorize a book. It could be a door stop. It could be a weapon you could hit someone in the head with this book, or you could throw it at someone. Say. Six semper tyrannis and show the book up their heads. Instead of throwing a shoe, there's lots of things you could do with this book. Throwing this book with Tony Blair. Yes, take it, take it back a journey. OK, a journey to the emergency room. Try to book in hardback it's best. OK, so the people who came up with this wheeze of undermining the sales of this book didn't say put the book randomly in the book Shop. They said re categorize it in a meaningful way that prevents the book from being sold and allows other people when they see the book in the new shelf to have a moment of our higher recognition and to share and be complicit in your creativity. They're saying let us discard the ontology of the book business which is convergent, and agree to invent our own new ontology, which is one of many possible divergent ontologies.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
What's happening here? With Uber Carl

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Is what's happening here so same mechanism, we need divergent thinking OK? Let's actually get down to details like people satisfied their hunger for technical detail.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
That's how we're going to do it. We're going to have another robot picture. First the web. What an amazing artifact. This big boiling cauldron of nonsense that we call the web. Millions of voices screaming out in terror all at once. If you like pouring their crap out into the world. And that's the good part of the web. And then there's the bottom part of the web, which is even worse. Basically you look at the web and you experience divergent and all of its messy glory, don't you? It's the web isn't written by one person, the web is written by millions of people. But imagine if we took the entire web to be the utterances of a single, highly divergent individual. In reality, the web is the agglomeration of the output of millions of convergent individuals. But if we were to view the web as a large corpus, it could be viewed as the collected musings of 1 highly divergent individual who was never consistent and kept changing their mind about how to categorize things. And that's the key to getting computers to be divergent. Use the web as a source of divergance. Sounds like God, yes, you know. Is being written in this way, but it's a God kind of. Yeah, it's been written by many people, but one authorial voice and post on it now. Yeah, that's very good. Good point. OK.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So this is. Alright, the matter individuals that is the web. Imagine it as 1 meter individual made up of many, many converting individuals. So imagine all the ways you might say I am as crazy as a well then all the voices on the web will give you different versions, right? One guy saying I was crazy as a loon. Another is saying almost crazy as a fruitcake Fox about Akua snake akute. What am I talking about? If you were to type into Google. As crazy as are, you won't get back one answer. You get back all of these answers, right? So if you want to understand craziness, typing in that pattern as crazy as a will give you lots of exemplars or stereotypes for craziness. So we tap into the divergent of the web to build the divergent knowledge that we all have in our heads. Treat the web as one divergent individual whose inner thoughts can be. Mind using the appropriate web queries.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So we do that on a large scale using similes, and we harvest them using the Google API, and then we strip out the mappings. So if we see the simile as concentrated as espresso, as dark as espresso, as strong as espresso, we strip out the mappings. OS press. Those concentrated espresso is strong. Espresso is rich, espresso is. Italian trendy gourmet steamy creamy. All of these things, right? And we end up getting the computer learns a lot of facts about what a good espresso should be. You never go into a coffee shop and say, can I have a black espresso please? Well, you might if you want Starbucks, but you never know how they're going to screw up your coffee. And can I have it in a Cup and not a piece of Cardboard? But we assume these things to be true about espresso. If someone says Cafe Ole, please. Black moron. Like saying I beausoleil Nouveau please 1979 would be good. We know that these things are true and we know everybody else knows their true there. What Hillary Putnam calls mutual knowledge? I know, you know, I know. You know, I know, you know that these things are true. I can use them as common grounds for talking to you. So we get a knowledge base of thousands and thousands of these, and so our computers understand similes. They understand stereotypes. When we generate metaphors, we're using these stereotypes as the knowledge representation to drive the computer's view of the world. We also

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Collect understandings of how adjectives reinforce each other. Something not spicy is likely to be hot, something that's hard to likely to be humid or fiery, or dry or sultry. We use the pattern as property and property as because that means that something is 2 properties at once in the same simile they must be coherently connected. They must reinforce each other so it's hot and humid as a jungle. As hot and spicy as a Curry as hot and fiery as a forest fire. See how the adjectives reinforce each other. We can learn how one property implies another, and build is very large matrix. To understand how properties reinforce each other. So now we have a very large model of stereotypical knowledge and we know how the properties imply each other, so we can do reasoning about the stereotypes.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
OK, so let's say that we want our Uber divergent system to be the world's largest pool of triples. And these triples are going to be. Suggest three element groupings where you have a concept of property and a superclass. So Cola is a carbonated drink. India is a hot country, espresso is a black coffee. Espresso is a strong coffee at Trojan is a malicious program of viruses and malicious program of vampires and evil demon. Tofu is a boring food. There may be people here who like tofu well. Your ontology may have a different triple OK, or maybe I sometimes I like tofu if I don't realize I'm eating it. It can be OK, but when I know it's there, I know my gods this is going to be painful. Just kill me now. So my ontology is going to have tofu boring food, tofu, interesting food, tofu, meat replacement, all sorts of perspectives, rugby, violent sport, rugby, competitive sports, rugby team, sport, rugby field, sport, whiskey, strong drink whiskey, Irish drink whiskey, traditional drink and so on. We have no limits on what we can say about things, and the more triples we have on topics, even if they are self contradictory. That promotes divergance. We want to build this pool.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So we start by taking our simile information that only gives us triples with two elements, because the similes don't tell us the superclass, we know as black as espresso. But what's espresso? So we make a triple espresso black? And this is our initial starting knowledge. And then we boots.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Op we go back to the web. Let's say we know that salmon is expensive, so we say expensive star such as Salmon and Google will give us phrases like expensive food such as salmon. And we say thank you Google. We now know that Salmon is an expensive food. We have completed the triple. Now that we know that examines inexpensive food, we can go expensive foods such as salmon and and then we'll find pairings on the web such as expensive food such as salmon and champagne. So now we have the triple champagne expensive food. We put that back into the system. Expensive food such as some pain and and that gives us caviar. So we're constantly picking on the threads of the web and pulling on them. But of course there's a combinatorial explosion here, so we're unweaving entire web in parallel and we pull in hundreds of thousands. In fact, we send millions of queries to the web and our knowledge explodes in the very best way.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So basically we start with the seed we used to seed to generate web queries that will retrieve more information. We add that into the knowledge base and we use the knowledge base is the basis for going back to the web, which gives us an even bigger knowledge base which we used to go back to the web, which gives us an even bigger knowledge base and we do that maybe 5 cycles and we say we can't keep doing this meeting can't keep go on meeting like this because were sucking the web dry on our computer is about to explode so we stop after five cycles. This is divergent bootstrapping where using divergent. Thinking to retrieve a divergent worldview, and we get a monster knowledge base as a result.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
We have to filter noise. And we use a coarse filter based on word net to remove noise and we end up with millions of facts.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And here's an application. Here's a web service to hours Rex. So if you type in creativity then these are all of the categorizations from the triples we get for creativity. Creativity is a personal skill, a spiritual attribute, and nonverbal skill and intellectual ability. Positive attitude as psychological attribute in entrepreneurial skill, professional skill, and mental attributes and Noble attribute. Cognitive attribute and so on. Essential scale, subjective skill, wonderful thing. We argue about what is the one category that creativity should be defined in terms of people. Don't think of it in terms of 1 category. They think of industry as a Swiss army knife that has many categories.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Here is if we type into source Rex. Creativity and leadership were asking to source rusks to give us all of the divergent categorizations that creativity and leadership share, so this holds it down. So we see that creativity and leadership are both soft skills, positive attributes, social skills, essential skills, key skills, managerial skills, transferable skills, natural abilities. Intellectual skills. Mental attributes, subjective things, desirable attributes. These are the shared perspectives that we as a society have on creativity and on leadership. This is a web service, so instead of you going to word net to get one category for creativity, go to the source Rex and get 100.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Divorce and war. Who knew there were so many shared categories for these two very different concepts? There are dramatic events. There are bad things, severe events, traumatic events, unforeseen events, unpleasant events, unanticipated events, Fortunately rare events. They are financial events, OK, painful events, severe conflicts, domestic events, critical events, destructive things, adverse events, disruptive, devastating events, economic events. Sudden events untoward. This is a much more comprehensive view of these two concepts and what they have in common. So if someone has the meta for Jesus, Man, divorces, war. What is the interpretation? It's in here, right? It's not in Word net. It's not in the lexical semantics of divorce or in the lexical semantics of war. It's in our shared perspectives on these two things, and a source Rex will give you this. Birth and death are both stressful events. Their timeless experiences. There are special occasions. OK, Bert is special for everybody debt, especially if you're Hannibal Lecter I guess. Or Dexter infrequent events. Historical events. Irreversible events is not an interesting perspective that you won't get in Word. Net birth is irreversible. I want to be unborn death. I want to be undead. OK, natural things. Notable events. We note these events, public entities. That's an unusual one. Recent changes. Recent events. Some of these are not as. Useful as categories as others. I love this stochastic processes. Somewhere out there there is a an auditor, the great auditor in the Sky is saying. It is it's caustic process, notable events, legal events, major events and so on. OK. You want to move this? I'm going to type in things, but I want someone to call out things to type in. It doesn't have any concept knowledge, but Finland it didn't find it during its bootstrapping. There's nothing up mind quick, you're a quick study. Yeah, the entire Internet is not in this application because it was too heavy. It wouldn't fit into the. But I'm working on it. I'm I'm told that you can buy a box that contains the entire Internet. OK, so. Coffee. Is an acidic beverage hot beverage a hot drink? A non alcoholic drink? A toxic substance? Acidic food, stimulating drink? Anyone want to compare coffee to something? Come on, this is a live demo. Don't say Finland. Someone OK, this is Finland. OK, why would coffee would be poison? OK, so these are the common categories for coffee and salmon. Fatty food coffee does contain fat by the way. The Kramer on top of your espresso is the essential oil from the B, and it's the best part of the coffee, but it's not really that fatty. If someone says I don't, I gave up coffee 'cause it's a fatty food, then they're full of crap, but technically contains fat. Some of these things are contextual. There are states in America where you go to the State Fair and they'll give you dishes like fried Coca-Cola or fried coffee. Deep fried butter is the common one in Texas at the moment. Wholesome Foods, American foods, everyday foods, typical foods, simple foods, real foods. And so on. It depends where you aren't. You know Ireland in the 1980s copy was pretty exotic. OK, so they're both there, both addictive. There both harmful, both illegal? That's an interesting one someone has said. Now again, this is a divergent voice on the Internet. Someone has classified coffee. And other things as illegal now. Yes, that's the divergents because again, we're treating the web as the as the musings of 1 individual, when in fact this is coming from many people's opinions. Powdered substances, recreational substances. Do you have any recreational substances in your back? Yeah, I've got a Java Maxwell House. The size of the cones actually tells us something about the frequency we found these categories with. So when we bootstrap we find the same knowledge over and over again and we keep track of how many times we find it now gives us some level measure of salients in approximate measure the internal structure of the category. Well, it means that more people think that coffee and heroin are addictive substances. Than think of them as powdered substances. So this is like that game. Family fortunes or pointless where the more times people say something the bigger it becomes as a category. There are psychoactive substances. I love that you know. You can imagine. Look at those colors man, after having too many laptops. OK, you tell, give me some words. Cabbage democracy. OK, well that's a very revealing insight into Graham's mind. That's why people normally. Now I'm betting that this won't come back. This isn't an Oracle. OK. No result. Cabbage and. Kings. No result cabbage and. Well, let's be divergent. OK, no one loves coverage. OK, let's put in a concept that is. Much discussed on the Internet right now. Love anyone? Want, let's be reasonable here for people. I mean. Web services for creativity and are going to survive. The first thing you do is to test cabbage in democracy. Whenever you demo stuff like this at ACL, every single person that comes up to you is desirous of the destruction of your demo. They never, ever take it seriously and put in things that might give them meaningful results. This is not an attack on Ukraine, I'm just saying people say linguistics is squirrels. Yeah, so let's give me something to do with love here. Listen OK, come on. Snap two Advil now. OK, OK, well, let's have. Yeah, let's reverse them down a second so the both mental activities. They're both divine qualities, divine attributes, mental states, positive qualities, serious subjects, wonderful things. Does anybody disagree with any of that? You disagree. You kept scratching your head OK? Are good things to try. By the way, are opposites, but let's put in reason first. OK, so you're not going to get new intersections, but let's put in. Patient love. Basic emotions, complex emotions, emotional states, negative emotions, powerful emotions. Moral sentiments. Um? Opathy in love. OK, they don't really go well together. Marriage and apathy, maybe, but. OK, so in this context of love, apathy can be considered an emotional state. A person attribute a negative emotion under many circumstances. You wouldn't think of Apple tears and emotions. More of a state. But when you're comparing it to love, it makes sense to think of it as an emotion. So this is like coercion in the sense of push the off skis. Network concepts are fluid and you're forcing them into particular crystallized forms when you put them in particular contexts. OK, we can come back to this later, 'cause I have other stuff to demo.
