Tell you a little bit about the actual architecture of collector works, and then I'm going to get on to the ethical issues that that raise us. The Thunder and the Swiss National Science Foundation and boasts employed by Geneva universities, have obligations to them and we have obligations to the external system, level collaborators, people helping us build the system, software and the content creators and the content users. So ourselves one of us is trying to get a PhD out of this. Geneva University, Geneva University is getting more clear and clear about the fact they want projects to believe it commercially to bring in money universe is terribly short of money. They want us to publish and they would like us to create. Tools are useful for teaching. An external system, level collaborators and content creators. For the user data that they create, they want us to respect their IP rights and they want us to respect them as members of the social network. You keep haphazardly extending your system to support the immediate needs for academic project, PhD thesis, writing papers, data collection, maybe a little bit of help for some people here in unit collector interested, we write the bare minimum of user documentation to keep that. Running what we have at the end is messy research code that only one person understands. We don't have to do anything, it'll happen all by itself. Content users will feel disappointed, not disappointed as people built the content. And the Swiss National Science Foundation makes and models in disappointed, but they probably seemed it will happen before, so I don't know if I'll cry. You want to shift carefully extend the system to support stable, useful platform, substantial growing social network. Content consists of these various course modules underneath the deployment platforms. The idea is that Alexa will be embedded in a social network and that will contain the kind of material you tend to expect to find a social network. And have a big social network. You have to make it easy to create content. You want to make it easy. You have to gamify the site so suck more and more people into it. If it works, we might get rich and the University like commercialization, so I'll be happy. You want to stable, useful platform, stable growing social network. We need to have code that portable code that can be easily deployed on several platforms. One of the well, one detail is actually quite important, so we have to move our compiler to Python. We need multiple people involved in maintaining current situation. the University may feel disappointed anyway, 'cause they like people to commercialize so that make that make our jobs less secure. We think the system level collaborators and content creators will be much happier. The academic typical academic scenario scenario one. It's the least good outcome, but it's also the least work, so it has that in his favor. The open source scenario is the one that's best for the content creators. We should also not forget that the commercialization scenarios best for us for being selfish, 'cause it could make us some money. But if you're thinking about the ethical principles, and you know Karen outline different ways which you can think about ethics. Social network does not yet exist. Here's the Pokémon course that the two 7 year olds put together. There's an interaction model which tunes recognition functionality. Social network doesn't exist yet. Most projects do not succeed when they have goals ambitious as this one, but even though we probably won't succeed, be realistic. Because the ethical issues already going to be interesting in the case where you succeed to some, at least to the extent of building up substantial user community. And if people don't conform to this meta principles, they don't plan for the case with this succeed, then I think we can safely assume that no projects will end up with ethical outcomes, so we are obliged to plan for the success case, and I think if you are interested in can't, this is probably a consequence of the categorical imperative, but.