[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so for Part 3 so we did backward looking. We did the past to the present and now we're going to the future.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So I'm going to. Tell you a little bit about the actual architecture of collector works, and then I'm going to get on to the ethical issues that that raise us. So talks in two parts.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So here's a very coarse grained outline of what the collector architectures post look like, so it's probably easiest to start in the middle in the middle tier. We've got content. Content consists of these various course modules underneath the deployment platforms. Each of those course modules have to sit in some kind of deployment platform, and at the top you got the social network level. The idea is that Alexa will be embedded in a social network and that will contain the kind of material you tend to expect to find a social network. You'll have metadata about the courses you have. Votes comments ability to recommend a course somewhere else. All the things you normally associate with the social network architecture.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
At the moment we're only six months into the project, so it's still pretty sketchy. We have, as you saw in the last talk, we have regulars, plus Alexa framework, and we have a number of number of course modules built and being trialed by kids on the right. We've got Laura, which I'm going to say a little bit in a minute. This is something I've been discussing with Branislav. It's it's a learning and reading assistant and I'll have a slide about that very shortly. Social network does not yet exist. We have a PhD student will be starting with us. Next month, the month after next, she's Iranian, called Honey Habibi. She's got previous practical experience in building running social networks, and she's got a lot of ideas about how to get the top layer into place.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So just to give you some little more concrete idea, what all this looks like in practical terms, the courses. Here's the Pokémon course that the two 7 year olds put together. Henry and Daniel. It's all the content for the Pokémon courses on this spreadsheet. It's a bit of math data at the top and there's some prompt response pairs underneath. So as you see, it's something that can be very easily constructed. We have a wizard that's currently being put together. We have a very sketchy version of the Wizard work you said here is that kids will be able to do this through the Wizards and.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Under the deployment platform level, there's a compiler which turns those spreadsheets into resources that you can deploy on the Amazon infrastructure. So it creates three kinds of resources. A Lambda function which gets deployed on the Amazon web server and web service WS platform. There's an interaction model which tunes recognition functionality. That's putting the Alexa component of Amazon's infrastructure, and in some courses like the animal game for example, the Language ID game, you have multimedia files that put on S3, so this should all be invisible to the user at some point. Fairly soon we hope to have the pipeline automated so this just happens. Find the scenes.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
I'll say a little bit about Laura, which is a project we've only just started, but I think it's quite exciting. I like to learn languages by just reading text, so I was actually the Guinea pig for this. I decided I would try learning Icelandic, which is absolutely fascinating language. I recommend everyone Icelandic. Here's the first couple paragraphs of Liberty, France, in Icelandic. And the.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This is what comes out when you run it through Laura. Laura gives you marked up versions of the text in a form which basically is meant to answer 2 questions and one of them is what does this text sound like? If it's spoken aloud and the other one is, where have I seen that word before you look at a word and you can click on it to see previous examples in your reading where you've seen the word before. And it marks the text by frequency, so it gives you the frequent words in black, those the ones you probably know already, 'cause you've seen them enough times and. Other colors show words less frequently. Less frequently appeared the text and it on the right. You can see your personalized concordance for the word, so this is something that we're putting together at the moment. And as I'm personally trialing it, is the first user.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Social network doesn't exist yet. As I said here, it'll it'll have the usual kind of functionality we have in social network and we still discussing very actively what kind of things it will be on it. And we welcome input on that.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So with that background, let's just go on to the ethical issues. So first of all, the meta principle and being realistic here we don't. Most projects do not succeed when they have goals ambitious as this one, but even though we probably won't succeed, be realistic. It's ethically correct to plan for the outcome. Where we do succeed. Because the ethical issues already going to be interesting in the case where you succeed to some, at least to the extent of building up substantial user community. And if people don't conform to this meta principles, they don't plan for the case with this succeed, then I think we can safely assume that no projects will end up with ethical outcomes, so we are obliged to plan for the success case, and I think if you are interested in can't, this is probably a consequence of the categorical imperative, but. I won't get.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Into that. So let's think about what the ethical issues are more concretely. We we need to fulfill our obligations to various people involved in this project in different ways is starting off. We have obligations ourselves. Of course we are involved in the project and we have obligations. The Thunder and the Swiss National Science Foundation and boasts employed by Geneva universities, have obligations to them and we have obligations to the external system, level collaborators, people helping us build the system, software and the content creators and the content users. So.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Getting more specific about still about our obligations to each of those groups. So ourselves one of us is trying to get a PhD out of this. We all want to publish papers being academics and we would like to keep our jobs.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The founder expects us to do the work that we described in the project proposal, and they also expect us to pay.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Geneva University, Geneva University is getting more clear and clear about the fact they want projects to believe it commercially to bring in money universe is terribly short of money. They want us to publish and they would like us to create. Tools are useful for teaching.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
An external system, level collaborators and content creators. They want us to have those give them stable long term, viable, maintainable hosting for the content that they build. For the user data that they create, they want us to respect their IP rights and they want us to respect them as members of the social network.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And the content uses have a basically a subset of that they want us to have stable, long-term maintainable hosting for the content, and they want us in the data and they want us to respect them as members of the user community.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So let's look at three sample scenarios about how we could develop the project further. So scenario one is the typical academic project. I know this is depressing to write this down, but this is a cycle which I think everyone will recognize. You keep haphazardly extending your system to support the immediate needs for academic project, PhD thesis, writing papers, data collection, maybe a little bit of help for some people here in unit collector interested, we write the bare minimum of user documentation to keep that. Running what we have at the end is messy research code that only one person understands. Generally the several different people understand different pieces of code. And a year off, the couple years after funding runs out, everything stops working and it collapses. Um?

[493.0s - 522.0s]
I want to make that happen. We don't have to do anything, it'll happen all by itself. Anne.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So what are the negatives and positives of this scenario? The negatives are that if we do this then probably as we saw in the tragic example, wikispaces. The system level collaborators people have contributed, worked building content will feel betrayed because all that content will disappear. It will be hosted anywhere. Content users will feel disappointed, not disappointed as people built the content. And the Swiss National Science Foundation makes and models in disappointed, but they probably seemed it will happen before, so I don't know if I'll cry. The positives are that we have less work to do because this is the scenario with the least amount of work. In short temper probably get more published 'cause our priorities will be driven by short-term publishing.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So scenario 2 is that we try and move for the commercial project and this is more ambitious. You want to shift carefully extend the system to support stable, useful platform, substantial growing social network. You demo with publisher Bit, so to make yourself more visible you have to PhD thesis as part of our project proposal. We have to have more documentation. We have well maintained code and at some point we move that code for private repository so that we we don't let other people see it 'cause we want to sell it and our goal is indeed to sell it to anyone who is willing to buy it.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So if we want to make this happen, the most important thing is that we should. Build the social network up to a point where it's large and interesting, because that's what the customers want to buy. They want a big social network with lots of people on it. And have a big social network. You have to make it easy to create content. So it's very important to create tools for rapid production of lots of content. You want to make it easy. You want to make site usage addictive. You have to gamify the site so suck more and more people into it. Um? And of course you have to make sure the content hosting is reliable, but no one wants to work it. No ones being a site that keeps going down.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So. The negatives of this, as we saw, is if you go sell your your social network to the highest bidder, they'll probably change their priorities. The content creators are going to be. Unhappy about that because they'll find that their stuff is being used or is used to make you a lot of money, basically. It doesn't. It doesn't work. On the other hand, we can feel disappointed. We did a lot of work for nothing. The positives are pretty obvious. If it works, we might get rich and the University like commercialization, so I'll be happy. The funder likes commercialization too, so be happy and the users are some of them will be unhappy and some of them will be happy. I think that's kind of wash.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So the third scenario is most ambitious. One of all, I think is to move towards an open source project. So if you want to do that, you have to build well some of these overlaps with the second scenario, the commercialization scenario 'cause you're building something that's meant to last a long time. You want to stable, useful platform, stable growing social network. We're going to be doing PhD thesis and papers at conferences. You have two very more serious what the user documentation 'cause more people are going to use that documentation. You have to maintain the code better 'cause it's going to be open source. For many people, going to have to look at it and be able to understand it and the long term goal is to transform this into a stable viable self. Maintaining open source project.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So if you want to do this. The most important things that seems to us are to be is to focus on independence and decentralization and long-term usability. We have to make sure the codes portable, so one thing we really don't want to do is get locked into the position. We're completely depends on Amazon. I think there will be a very bad situation for if you want to be independent and an open source we want to, we need to be supporting other platforms to. We need to have code that portable code that can be easily deployed on several platforms. One of the well, one detail is actually quite important, so we have to move our compiler to Python. It's currently in Prolog, which is annoying. We need to have code that's well maintained, well documented. We have seriously doing code reviews. We need multiple people involved in maintaining current situation. Just having one person understand the code works. Last but not least, we have a distributed social network. We cannot have the social network sitting on our servers from the temptation will be overwhelming to say that we own it and we can do what we want with it.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So negatives and positives, this doesn't work. We've done a lot of invested, a lot of effort for nothing will be disappointed. the University may feel disappointed anyway, 'cause they like people to commercialize so that make that make our jobs less secure. But if this works, this plan comes ambitious. Plan comes off. We think the system level collaborators and content creators will be much happier. The users will probably be happy and the funds will be happy that the Swiss National Science Foundation said he likes open source projects at work.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So just summarizing the ethical tradeoffs here. The academic typical academic scenario scenario one. It's the least good outcome, but it's also the least work, so it has that in his favor. The open source scenario is the one that's best for the content creators. And the content developers, the Excel level system, collaborators the content developers. The commercialization scenario is the one that's best for the University because universities are just so desperately short of money at the moment. So there's a certain tension between those. We should also not forget that the commercialization scenarios best for us for being selfish, 'cause it could make us some money. But if you're thinking about the ethical principles, and you know Karen outline different ways which you can think about ethics. It certainly seems. A priore reasonable to say the open source solutions, one that's ethically preferable. You could argue the different ways, but all the prints for the greatest good for greatest number utilitarian reasoning. You feel that is the one that ethically is easiest to defend. Unfortunately, the short term incentives favor the default and the commercialization solutions on the ground there less work and. Our employers are pushing us towards them. Um? And so on and so forth. So I think that basically sums up the trade offs we're faced. Faced with in further developing the project. Thank.
