Being there, staying there Mars. So Earth, International Space Station, which is representative of microgravity or everything which is between planets or moons than the Moon and Mars, our team is quite small. Saggy crickle off, who spent altogether 800 days in space. He said space can be fun depending on who you are with, so I think that's pretty much summarizes. Project the other item I listed in the beginning was life support. It's about transforming our habitats from inert spaces into programmable sites, so it's about creating this kind of living environment. Support the generation of electricity, purifying Gray water and air, and recycling all these elements. Which on one hand is a microbial fuel cell. Being there, so let's assume we are now in the position to step on Mars to take a first step just for maybe a year mission. One of the projects we were involved was the she self deployable habitat for extreme environments, very architectural project and that is it's built for Earth to test and prepare future missions on either the Moon or Mars. This also has been mentioned by himself this morning, so that is why we are developing currently a greenhouse for space exploration and to test it it will go to the Antarctic to the normal 3 station. And it's a testing advancement of close loop systems of a nutrient delivery system. And sort of create earth on Mars. Show you the section of Space Odyssey 2001, A Space Odyssey by Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C Clarke, where they land on the Moon. We need radiation protection during travel. It's entering regular 3 solar light. That's just before melting center layers of sand to create building elements. The pressure environment would then come from an inflatable again, so we could use it for pressurized habitable volumes, but even you know these the harsh lunar environment also destroy systems, so you might also think of storing protecting some of the systems Rovers machinery in non pressurized volume, shielding it from radiation, or landing on the moon creates a lot of dust. To create this kind of different kind of systems or technology advantage advantage, advancements for planetary base, we've so we've currently working on the greenhouse. And with standing this you know, long duration, partial gravity an be able then. Living on Spaceship Earth as Buckminster Fuller said, and for today it's being here, staying here.