The topic of my talk today will be more about structure to rank approximation then optimization on Grassmann manifold. So for example, Sylvester Matrix, which you have seen previously. If you flip it accounts then you have 200 meters is with fixed zeros. I think you have already seen a lot of these matrices in the sense of approx matrix completion, so you have you have some matrix and you want to complete it such that the completed matrix is of all ranks. But more interesting example, when you have both structure and missing values, this this more interesting case because this can be used in system identification with missing data. But here we use a kernel form. The Matrix D by MM is the number of rows here. And this is equal to M -- R, which is a four oh run and which annihilates this matrix. So this D is equal to current at least that you want to achieve. In the case where we do not have missing data in the case when we have only positive positive ways, so we also we also prove that this function is. It's function, derivative and hash and can be evaluated in this number of hops, and as you remember, we have typically a fat matrix, so so this corresponds. But we can know that it depends only on the row space of this matrix. So basically it's an optimization on a Grassmann manifold and. So this means that for any for the subspace which corresponds to this R, there exists such X and there exists a permutation matrix P such that this subspace is represented by this matrix. So in this case it corresponds that affine hyperplanes cut out of heap hypercube and for any subspace you can find a point on this hypercube. And we propose how to deal with this. You have full control, number of possibilities and you can do basically local optimization of these functions for a fixed permutation. And you typically associated it with univariate time series, so you have all you can. So this happens if and only if the coefficients of times here is it is 5 what is called linear recurrence or different situations? But here this is more adapted to local geometry, but for every optimization method you need to modify your optimization method to use this retractions and you don't really know much about properties of it but here. But unfortunately there is no bumps on the number of switches here, so if you exceed the phase you need to switch to another hyperplane. In this case there on the number of rows, but it will be like this. And this means that. Appointed number of locks and this number of inputs and the interesting feature here is that the inputs and outputs of the system can be permitted in this vector. So suppose that you have two polynomials, two univariate polynomials, and you construct the Sylvester matrix from it. Even more, you may wish to compute approximate GCD of several several univariate polynomials, or you may wish to compute approximate GCD of multivariate polynomials and or some kind of approximate groebner basis, because life is more various in multivariate case and deferred third example for final example is about multi level 100 matrices, so this this structure appears if you. Structure which can be defined by a linear map from some parameter space to the space of N by N matrices. Framework and the structure to rank approximation. Is infinite if some some constraints are not satisfied. It means that in this approximation criterion, the elements really do not matter the original and approximating picky, so this corresponds to the case of missing values.