So basically I'm my topic is knowledge acquisition and but based with focus on the crowdsourcing. 1st, I'll show you a bit of motivation behind this, so I started with that and then a bit of introduction to knowledge acquisition then then I will point out the challenges and all of this. Question. As I said, there are different approaches to knowledge acquisition. It can be separated by prior knowledge, so some you can use pre existing ontology or you can just start from scratch. So yeah, we're we're actually using his well pre existing ontology, which we extend and crowdsourcing which we extend to be social and using conversational clients. And then person can respond with predefined options as you see, before you can click you can have OK. So basically you could just use the language and concepts knowledge base. It's because we need knowledge or computers need knowledge in order to be able to solve more complex tasks tasks. It knows about pizza and drinks, knows about coffees and about alcoholic drink. If I answer it coffee with milk which is not here yet, it does it can't know where to put it. Coffee with milk and it would put it here by default, so but we can do it. We can do it better so we solve this that it can ask more questions. So these are a bit of challenges of knowledge acquisition and you don't know where to put existing knowledge, and it's hard to get relations and rules and this patterns which generate natural language. So if you want if you want to have a lots of these patterns is as well expensive, you have. So what we do is that these forms are questions represented to users based on their context, location and the previous conversation, and we don't store everything into the main KB, so for everybody to see, but some parts are separated because of different beliefs and of the privacy. But the public answers are showed to other people and then they have to confirm them or deny them. The different users believe different things and then another problem is maintaining user involvement. For example, if you answer, they have a wireless, then it immediately asks whether it's password protected and how fast it is, and so on. Both were basically trying just to fake it, so lots of pretending some of them even was. Can you ask for help? Which so this is this is original statement. Can you please tell me what Linux is so it basically remove that and then it called again itself and then another pattern can take this. And So what they do is they have better syntax because no XML stuff. Basically at but the good thing is it can do knowledge acquisition as a side effect of doing something else. Whatever your system is doing. It has only one way of saying things and we don't. So these are the chat bots are doing this with the ontology driven approach, so this is what we're what I'm working on right now. I don't didn't solve it yet. And the goal is as well to connect a lot of user questions and data during the easy usage of this application. So this is another thing is an application which we're doing together with Cycorp Ann is meant. So basically they were to chat bots hooked to each other. So knowledge acquisition, constructing the knowledge basis can be quite hard, so that's very knowledge acquisition. For example, psych knowledge base knowledge base we were using in this application. Small small knowledge base which will which later extent and then it's a machine learning algorithms. Usually it's text, preprocessing extract patterns and then it does extraction. To learn new patterns to extract even more information and then some sort of assessment rather than knowledge is in any value and then it goes inside and you can go another circle and so on. So in our case it the system get some user ID and location as well.