[0.0s - 29.0s]
This presentation is more practical than the previous ones. I mean, I'm going to just sum up a bit of all the things that you have already heard and try to give you some practical guidelines as to how you can contribute to the purposes of LRC and to making it translation more efficient for the Slovenian language.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I had prepared some slides explaining the notion of data and language data and things like that, but it was to my pleasure to realize today that this audience is seems quite familiar with these terms. So you do know that. Data is a buzzword today, but most of the times that we hear of this word, it refers to numerical data and previous speakers have already mentioned that we need this data to make better digital services.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
But I what I wanted to stress out is that we don't need only numerical data such as statistics, but we also need language data to make better digital services that exploit the power of artificial intelligence of natural language processing technologies. So.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So I'm just going to go very quickly through these, so if data is any piece of electronically stored text, then when we refer to language data we mean every piece of electronically stored text instead of just content.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
This is an example that someone has already presented its considerable language resource in English, Slovenia that resides already in Elar C share the language resources repository that we created and maintain through which all the datasets throughout Europe are forwarded to the European Commission and two in translation to enhance performance. So this is the data set and the red frames are the metadata of this data set and what a metadata it is. The description of them of the data set, its title, its creator, its distribution and license, through which it can be shared openly or restricted or not.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So this is a language resource. What it contains. It can contain a set of texts, and in this specific case these are texts in English, and the translations in Slovene. So this data set consists of text files, English Anslow, index files, and inside these files are what actually is are the valuable language data and we need. The English text and the corresponding Slovenian text. In some other cases, is actually the case. For this it may even include a single file, a translation memory that is which presents all the sentences aligned to their corresponding translation. English Slovene sentence than another English Slovene sentence. So you have 7 parallel sentences instead of whole documents of texts aligned.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The European Commission to develop its NTSC system and now the translation system has used for training their machine translation engines quite a huge amount of such data sets of texts translated into all EU official languages. These texts come from the EU institutions, such as the Council, the Parliament, several Aboriginal institutions, the European Central Bank and so on. It's a huge collection of texts, but as Marcus 40 said in his presentation, this collection of texts is tailored to the EU specific language, so it doesn't cover all domains. It doesn't cover the specificities of each European language, instead it is tailored specifically to the let's say, EU administrative domain, so they are not enough and This is why this workshop takes place and several other workshops. Like this one, you know throughout Europe.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
What we need in order to make the translation better for the Slovenian language. We need texts that are produced by public organisations in Slovenia, and these can be reportes. Website material. In public organisations communication. Material news. Policy tax terminologies, archives and things like that. Everything that is produced by a public organization because this text includes the essence of what we call the national Administrative Language. And this is where it translation needs to become better at.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So. If we now take it to see what that expert type are specifically useful for the translation, then I said earlier every electronic, any electronically stored text, but more specifically we need bilingual text parallel bilingual text. The source text in Slovenian and it's English translation, or vice versa.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
It can even be a terminology that is a list of terms in a certain domain, for example English terms and their Slovenian equivalents.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Esper format. As I said earlier again and you have already heard today we need anything that is machine readable, but there are some formats that are more machine readable than others. There are more machine translation ready than others in the sense that they don't require further processing in order to make them readily exploitable for machine translation. And this is becausw when you impose processing. Aim to assure sticks, then you can introduce a number of mistakes. Becausw of the automatic processing of the text that will be inherited in the final output. So we don't want such mistakes to appear in the in the target translated text, so we would like to avoid them.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
For example, in your organisations you may have some texts which are actually scanned images of texts. Yeah, this is a problem. We can process such formats in images of text, I mean. We can go through optical character recognition and then we would have to correct the mistakes at the output manually. But as you realize this introduces many mistakes that we don't want them to appear in the translation system, so we would like to avoid such formats.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So this is a list of the preferred file formats in descending order. If you have bilingual or multilingual parallel tax. The ideal format is a translation memory. At here mix or any other XML based file format such as the ex Leave, then we are OK with even a plane, texting, texting or a doc or even a spreadsheet and Excel format. If you have terminal technologies that you can share, then the ideal format is the term base exchange. But again, plain text and spreadsheet would also work, and for monolingual text we can work with anything like the DXD or doc file.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So in this I'll try to explain now to give you some hints and practical advice, some best practice examples what you should avoid and what you should do when you are preparing your texts that are to be shared either or your national open data portal and with the European Commission through our repository dealers share.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So these examples come from previous experience, so these are cases that we have already handled and we have to somehow overcome such such cases. It is quite often that some people translate in the same document, they translate one paragraph and rather under beneath it they translate. They have the source paragraph and beneath it they have the translated paragraph and so on. It's OK, I mean it's not the end of the world, but we would prefer to avoid such formats.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
All. Inserting a translating in columns and inserting spaces in order to optically align the text. This is, I mean this is not literally alignment, it is just an optical alignment. Human reader can recognize that the paragraph to the to the right is the translation of the paragraph to the left, but the machine can't recognize it.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Or even in tables. Actually this is the easiest case. We can extract the aligned paragraphs here, but it's not a best practice when the translator or another public servant tries to create text that are to be shared or used as open data.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So instead, what is most useful is that you keep your source text in a separate file and translate in a different file. So at the end you will have a collection of files, the source and the target 1.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And it is very helpful if you indicate in the filename the language code of the text data file contains.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Um? One of the things that define said data set is that it is a group of texts, so this grouping is done according to certain criteria. And for the purposes for our purposes, for forwarding datasets, language resources to it translation. There are two or three three criteria that make absolute sense, and these are of course, as you can imagine, the languages. So when you group together texts and the translations, ideally they have to belong to the same too. They have to include a pair of languages. English, slovene. We wouldn't like to see within a certain collection a third language appearing out of the blue. The second criterion is the domain criterium, so each collection of texts ideally should belong to one domain. For example, you have. You could have a collection of texts in English love in in the culture domain, and this is something that we'd like to see in the title of this collection or Social Security documents in English, Norwegian or Norwegian and Finnish.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
You have already heard what the Connecting Europe facility tries to do to offer digital services for all European countries. These are specific digital services and for these services in translation needs to perform better. So This is why the preferred domains are adherent to the specific digital services. So even want it translation to work better. For the online dispute resolution, we need to train it on texts that talk about consumer rights that have complaints of consumers who have bought the service or product from. From the market and so on. If we want machine translation to work better for sources for Social Security, then we need to train it on documents that talk about Social Security. And so on. So the domains that we prefer apart from consumer rights and Social Security are public procurement, justice and the law, health and medicine, business and market, and of course, culture for European.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So, assuming that you have identified in your organization collection of texts that can be shared. At that you think that it is very useful to train it translation with what is the procedure to share it with us?

[638.0s - 667.0s]
We have created a language resources repository dealers share. You can find it on this web address dealer. She does share dot EU. The cerebral story where we host, describe and give access to language resources that are useful for training machine translation systems. Through dealers share all the data sets that we collect in Europe are forwarded to the European Commission. So if you do want to share, then just go to your share.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
You you have to be a registered user to do so.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So first thing to do is to register and activate your account and then you are ready to log in. Describe your data set and upload it.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The registration functionality is available for the main menu.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
We will need to give us your name, your organization, some contact details and of course to accept to the terms and services.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So when you have done so, you are ready to contribute their language resource again through the main menu. Click on contribute resources.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
And here is a contribution form that is very minimal in terms of the information that is requested from you. All you have to do is to give a title. As I said before. It can be a descriptive title. I mean it has to indicate the language pairs your datasets contain, and ideally the domain it is adhering to. A very short description. And of course, the languages that it includes. This is all that is that you have to fill in. It's very very minimal because all the rest is our job. We're going since when you contribute a resource, we're going to fully document it. I mean, to complete its metadata description. You don't have to do so.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Now, in order to upload the actual datasets, you have three options. You can either upload the zip file or just provide us a URL where your resource resides. It can be an FTP server, it can, it can be simple. You are realizing www.something. All if your public organization has already implemented the delivery building block. It is one of the connecting your facilities services that is offered freely to all public organisations. You can even use it delivery. Do I forward your data? This option is preferred by some organisations becausw when they they want to share data that are sensitive or confidential. So if you choose to upload a zip archive, just click.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Sorry.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Upload the file, then you will have to locate the zip file on your hard drive. Just click open submit and you're done.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
It's as easy as that is that if you choose to indicate that you are right, just write down the URL and it is our job to fetch the actual data set from the URL you have indicated.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And that's it. You can log out now and then, or continue by contributing a second and a third resource so.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Anything? Of course there's a help page. There are guidelines, detailed guidelines available for you should you have any problem. The metadata schema is also available in this help page, but.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
In any case, you can always send us an email or call us or anything if you need more help. So you have contributed a resource what happens next?

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
This is more or less what is going on. You are the data contributor to the left. You have uploaded something only a lesser share. What we do? In most cases this resource will need some type of processing. So we yell RC will process these issues in order to make it machine translation ready. And this process data will be again uploaded by us on the repository and forwarded to the European Commission.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
This projection I just mentioned. What it could be? It may be. This is not on my screen. It's only there. No, not online. Let me see if disappeared now, so just. Are we here? So is this the right slide? Thanks. It may need some cleaning, it may need to be converted to a different format. For example, if you give us docx, files will convert them to T2 exterior trim mix. It may need to be aligned at the sentence level. If you give us full text then we will align them and make them convert them into aligned parallel sentences. And of course we will make sure that the resources properly and fully described with metadata.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
All these services. Apart from provided remotely, they can also be provided to you on site. ELRC and our national colleagues. The Slovenian colleagues can come to your office if you feel that you can share the resource. Before it is processed in house. And this service is provided by LRC for you free of charge so.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
We will come to your offices.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
And our experts here are experts in processing the Slovenian language. Will collaborate directly with you to do all the necessary processing. Before you can share your datasets.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
What these processing services could be for an onsite assistance request? Stella's mentioned earlier that you may have huge datasets, data set of attacks, but you don't really know and it won't have the resources to investigate which of these texts are actually translations of others. We can come to your place and do this for you. You may need to anonymize your text before you share them. We can do that or do any other cleaning or reformatting.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Convert the files. Remove tags. I learned them of course, and complete the meta data.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
So what is? Equally important here is that once all these processing stages have been performed. The output of this processing, the process data. Can be given back to you so we not only forward them to the European Commission, but you can also have a version of your data processed, cleaned, aligned, anonymized so that you can have it in your own databases for future use.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
So how to request this?

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Just go to our website. Allowed coding nation dot U and there the there's a form available their request for roadside assistance. Just give us your name, your organization and simply describe. The assistance you need and we will make sure we will respond swiftly and collaborate and. Make sure that someone comes to your office in order to do the necessary processing.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
For any questions, there's a help desk available all working hours, every working day. It is reachable through phone, Skype, email, of course, and you can address any question whether it is technical, technical or legal, or anything that bothers you when it comes to sharing your data for the translation with our help desk.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
And of course, always. You can always talk to us to Simone, who is the national anchor point to me and Stella's for anything that bothers you.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Kouvola
