So let me start, it's I think it's a new deal between educational. They did some research about engagement of people and they came to the to this surprising result that 80% of people are not passionate about what they do. Today we have an information explosion and we're not living anymore information shortage, but we are living in information luxury. This is the problem. Now the origin of species has nothing to do about evolution. Into these schools you don't get a degree based on passion for your talents, but on your ability to study stuff without passion and talent. It's a story about what I call a switch to a new new time period. Into the organizations don't get work based on your passion and talents, but on your ability to work with our passion and talents. We have a very big. He says if you put fences around people you get cheap. Is responsible for creating a lost generation. Learning is a physical process, it's just connections between neurons, its associations, and it takes time. So what this is is real learning only happens when you're in the flow or in the group with your talents, and I will tell you what we should do. OK. OK, it's a it's a start so. How old is the competence playlist? We are eager to learn another children start to notice and then we are starting to build our competence playlist and then after a while it gets filled up cause talents without passion information. We can do this. OK So what is the impact of the global Treaty smart and this is happening today. So what do we do? We have to face some of the biggest dramas in the world. I did this one of the best thing this is we have to undo the unintended consequence. We have to say stop the nonsense. Change this thing we have to reinvent competence management. And you know, this model conscious competent means. You were able to do it, but you still need the manual. So they are unconscious, incompetent. OK, I have to remember that so by developing 3D personal competence, what are 3D? The chance that you're unconscious incompetent become less. The course learning is making from conscious incompetent to conscious, competent and this is yourself learning power. Survey because we have to become an age of innovation. Do not know the trends in your profession or their profession. Ann, are they talking about something they want to accomplish to create? Are they using all the information sources they need? Or do you have friends? You should add 5.