[0.0s - 29.0s]
I think some people in the room or listen to me last year at the same question as John who was here last year. OK, good as you notice, we invited some young people this year. I think this is a very good progress. I think the next step would be that young people organize everything. From the beginning to the end. And they not only invite teachers, but also people from industry. And I think children are the linking pin 'cause they're going at school and their parents work. So you bring your parents and you bring your teachers. Because if we don't do that, we can't change the world, and so I'm very happy to be here again, especially during the feast where you eat duck. OK anyway. We like doc. So what I'm going to do today as I'm going to talk you about competence playlist and this was an idea that started last year and even a little bit before that, and it's very dramatic change. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to propose that Slovenia is going to be the first country to ditch diplomas. Normal diplomas, it's like Dyson, you know they can clean without a bag. Now they can cleaners without a bag. Are much better vehicle claims that with the back, so I believe that if we build an educational system without diplomas, we have a better ethical system than with diplomas and I'm trying to convince you during this session that what we have to do. So let me start, it's I think it's a new deal between educational.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And people who know me Becausw, did you receive the videos I put online for you to look at? I'm coming for industry. I work for 20, three years for Siemens in various roles like software developer, Manager, training Manager, corporate Learning Officers. So I've seen how industry has changed and I've seen how people with University degrees with very high grading. Aren't both aren't able to follow change? So there's something terribly wrong with the system. So, and I'm going to explain that so.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
It's a story about what I call a switch to a new new time period. It's also appeared of creative destruction and today we have to distract diplomas and we have to create something new. And what I'm going to do today is it's kind of an awakening.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
I'm going to awaken you Y now if you don't understand what I'm saying is your problem. And if you understand what I'm saying, but you don't agree, that's another problem. But if you understand it and you agree, then we have three other workshops. Thinking about what can we do? So I only want to work with people who understand I want to do something about it. OK. OK, it's a it's a start so.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Normally I use a folding system. I'm not going to do it because I only have 40 minutes, but I will ask some of you during a few statements with hand raising and I do a little survey during the session so I know how you feel about. Competence isn't personal competence.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So let's start 6660 slides, 45 minutes, let's start.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Why do we need much more passion for talents? Everybody is telling that.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
There is no conference I go to in the world where everybody is talking about passion and talents and learning and innovation and nobody changes. But it has impact, so we have to Start learning what it means so well, I'm going.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Do is I'm going to explain you in eight steps what is happening in the first. Like people remember last year is the global information wave.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And this is happening and this is what John was talking also about is the Industrial Revolution in 1771.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
These are six spirits in our history. Recent history where we changed everything. We went from industrial revolution. We added steam. We added steel. We added oil and now in 71 we added information. Any information now with news technologies, an iPod, Sam mobile Internet and broadband and video is changing everything. And today if we have 60 just a question who is able to to send tweets in the room? Who can send tweets now without help of children, but who can send tweets? OK, now I I've heard you're most of the time working in education. If you can't send tweets today, you're incompetent. I'm so sorry. If you're if you if you don't realize it, then you're unconscious incompetent. This means that you don't know that you're incompetent, you're happy, but you're still incompetent. And the reason for that is the reason for that is, I just want to show you some figures. This happens in social.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Media every 60 seconds in 2013. So now in 2014, but every 60 seconds, 300,000 tweets are sent. Not many from here. But 300,000 tweets are set, so 300,000 people. And most of the time it's a lot of chit chat, but most of the passionate, talented people sent in Tweet pictures, links, videos and you miss them. And if you know something special, you have to tweet it now, you can't tweet. You are missing an enormous channel for information, and it's not also also only tweeting, but it's also Skype. Who skypes? And during a work about your profession. That's what kids say. Kids say we use Skype and social media after school but not in school, but it's the same thing with people who go to work. They use social media after work because otherwise they don't have Contacts with their kids. But during work they don't use it, and the reason for that it's very easy. The reason for that is the world has changed so fast that now information is becoming a new element and this means you have to be happy. But it isn't. And what I have learned, I'm 58 now. But what I've learned is that if you are passionate in evolution. Then you want to use this stuff. I never met somebody who isn't passionate about evolution. What is happening and what he's doing. Who didn't use social media. It's the same thing if you're passionate about evolution, then you want to talk to other people. If you're passionate about the revolution, then you have a smart phone and talk to other people, but if you're not passing in evolution, why should you communicate? So if you're not using social media, this means that you don't have passion evolution. How can you change education if you're not passionate about evolution? It's not my question, but you should ask it to yourself. So what I'm saying there is for people without passion and evolution, information has no value and So what?

[348.0s - 377.0s]
It's happening now and this is just research this research by the Gallup Consulting Company. They did some research about engagement of people and they came to the to this surprising result that 80% of people are not passionate about what they do. Can you imagine you have one other people going to work? The 1st 20 say yes, we have to change. The next sense 60 don't go to work if you don't tell them what to do and the last 20 sabotage everything the 1st 20 have changed. This is a world what we have created. If we sent one other children to school the 1st 20 or eager to learn and the next day the other eight has something to learn that don't like to learn, this is what we create. How can we become a learning and innovative organization? How can we create sustainability if this is the case so? What I'm trying to do is trying to change things.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And in order to do that, I came up with some words, and today I'm talking about 2D and 3D and 2D world is the world we are coming from. Can you imagine? We most of us are boy.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Born in a time period of information shortage. Do you know what it means? Information shortage. This means that at home you can't learn. It's the same thing with food service shortage. You know what foods sort? This means that at home you can't eat. And during this time. We invented school. And this happened in the Industrial Revolution. That's what John said during Industrial revolution. We created schools based on the technology we had at that time and what was the technology books, a teacher? Abort in a classroom. And in that time period, the teacher was the most clever Sky in the room. You know why the kids didn't have the books? Kids never could get more than 100%. It was impossible. It was 90 or 80 or 70 or 60. But you know one person who got 120 on 100. It was not possible because you couldn't get smarter than the teacher. And then we went to work in organization where the manager was the smartest, an in five year times, and we've seen it coming. The world has changed. Today we have an information explosion and we're not living anymore information shortage, but we are living in information luxury. And today if you have passion and you have talent, you can learn more at home than in schools. This is the problem. This is a problem if we really are passionate and talented and your social connected to the world. You got all the information before you. Why should you go to school? Do you know why? Because you have to get your degree. I see somebody say no, we're going to have an argument. So, and this is what we call the Switch 3D. We are switching from one time period to another. We have to build organizations which are information fuel and I know this is terrible news but education is going to be to the worst transition period you've ever seen. So what is happening? And this is I'm trying to explain you.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
In this thing. In order to understand what we have to do, we have to understand what we are coming from. And we are coming from a time period which is called 2D and this guy he explains in a book he says the origin of species. Now the origin of species has nothing to do about evolution. It's about that. Suppose you have a world. And suddenly we only have water. Who you think survivors, the people who can swim? But you have to be able to swim along time if you're not able to swim, you die. That's Darwin. And today it's not water but this information. And you know when you die when you don't learn that starving, it's now if you're living in a world with a layer of information, you have to change education and you have to change work 'cause otherwise you will die and we are just in the midst of this change process. And in order to understand this I go back. I go back to what we call the 2D smarts and the two day smarts is like me. At 58 I was a 2D smart and you know how I became a two day smart. I went to 2D.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
School. And this is a 2D school.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
I know it's changed. Now we have E books. What is the same shit? Only it's an E. And now we have a smart board that's true, but the same shit now is just a computer behind the board. But the model we still using is the same. You have to issue the smartest in the room, but he uses technology and how he says I with the world. No, he's just using technology to do the same thing. And this is a world where you get 2 diplomas. Do you really think in school you get a degree because you have passion and talents? No. Do you know why you got a degree because you were able to study to study stuff you didn't like to study because you didn't have the passion and talent for. That's when you get a degree. You have to do all the courses. But you go to the next year. If you succeed in the course you didn't like to do. If you would be able to study much faster in the course where your passion and talent never would be at school until August 23, you would leave school when you're 20. So this is a problem.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Into these schools you don't get a degree based on passion for your talents, but on your ability to study stuff without passion and talent. I ask these questions during every presentation I gave. Yesterday we gave a presentation at Ljubljana University. With 60 professors. And they agreed. If we are honest, we agree. And then we go to work. And then you think it's it's got no, it isn't. It doesn't come we go to.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And then the first thing they give us is a function description. And you know what the function descriptiones is just a list of things you have to do. And you know when you have to keep your function. If you also succeed in doing the things you don't like to do. So any work is just the same. We went to work.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Into the organizations don't get work based on your passion and talents, but on your ability to work with our passion and talents. Do you, you know? Do you have a manager? Says hey, you're doing this very well. We want to make sure that you're going to do this all over the company. We going to use you in your passion and talents. No, you know why? Because then you become smarter than the manager. Do you really think that we have schools where the teacher says, hey child from 15 years old you have so much passion and talent in this course we going to make you study fast and you know why not because then you become smarter than the teacher because he can't use social media. You understand? You understand young people, you understand the shit you're in. So what do I have to do?

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And this guy said it. He said used them. We have a problem. I just added. We have a very big. Global problem, but it's the same problem facing in all the world. The amount, the amount of information is increasing everywhere and this is the problem and I just got this quote.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
I'm a guy it Willie McKnight. He says if you put fences around people you get cheap. In education we have put fences around children. They couldn't use their study and passion talent. No, they had to do what we had to tell him to study at work. We do the same thing. So I added my own quota this thing and I said with the Diploma function description. An I-58 now. And I can debate with everybody, but since I'm giving this lectures I get all these mails from people who recognize it from students who still have to study two or three years in University crying, 'cause I have to study so many courses they don't like to study. And if they don't study them, they don't get a degree. From people with a burnout because they can't use their passion and talent at work and I have to do what they both tell them to do an it's increasing. You know why it's increasing because the information increases. And it's getting worse and worse and worse and worse and more people are getting a burnout, and more children will stop going to school. And this is happening worldwide, so this is what we created.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
My generation. Is responsible for creating a lost generation. Without knowing it. Of course we did it with the best intention. Because we only had books, teachers a blackboard in a classroom. Have you created that in a time period of information shortage? And at that period of time we had the best educational system in the world. But now it's bad. It's killing us, so we should get rid of it. And So what? What is this? We clearly lost generation, and the hardest part of it is we do.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Not even realise. We don't even realize. Do you know why? Because we can't imagine another world without educational system we have today and the work we have today. So I've been thinking about that.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So what is happening now is we have a global treaty smartwave. Because the smarts are taking over the world.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And the global treaty is smart with or people who are really adapting to what is happening now. And I will tell you a secret. You know what the 3D smart is. A 3D smart is a person with.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Brain. You're lucky you have a brain. You just behave as a sheep. So there is hope. But they're going to explain you what is the what is to become a human? And I saw one of the slides. I took a picture of it. Somebody said we have to discover again. Will this be human? And this is learning. Learning is a physical process, it's just connections between neurons, its associations, and it takes time. And what we have to realize we have to go and reflect again or what we are. We are people. We are human beings forcing the system that was created in the past. So we have to reinvent education and reinvent work. So what this is is real learning only happens when you're in the flow or in the group with your talents, and I will tell you what we should do. The first thing is. We should accept that everyone of us has talents. And you know what a talent is. It's your destiny. It's your father and your mother produced you at a period of 6. And nine months later you were there. Anne, your parents told you we made some beautiful. We made something beautiful but we don't know what. Because nobody gets born with A tag on his feet and it says this is Iris talent. This is the biggest secrets we act. We don't know what we are. A talent makes you do things much better than somebody else with much, much less energy. That's a talent. That's also diversity that first has nothing to do with your color of your skin, that you're black or red or green. That's that's the paint of nature. But diversity is really all the talents that are in the room. I we should use them. So the next thing is, how can you discover or how can you deploy a talent? Is getting passionate about it. You know what passion is? You know the real meaning of passion. I think it's going from all Greek and John can more about, but it comes from pasta or something like that and it means suffering. Suffering. So if you're passionate, then you're able to suffer, you know an athlete who has a talent and dispassionate. You can see him suffering. You know why suffers cause most of the time he's sweating to do better. You know what most people tell me when I ask him? Are you passionate? Yes, ma'am, I'm passionate, but I don't suffer. They are lying. You recognize people immediately when they are passionate because they are suffering. They are learning how to Twitter. And that's suffering, but they're learning how to become a better person. What they do that is that is that is really passionate. And So what I see now is that a lot of people have created passion for something they're not talented in. Most of them have a University degree. There's a difference between having the discipline to learn and the passion to learn. Don't mix these up. But if you have a passion in your talent. You're becoming in the groove of who you are and what are people who are passionate to suffer who have talents they are eager to learn. I don't know anybody. Who asks passionate in evolution in his talent? Who doesn't want to learn from everybody in the world? And today we have all these means we can do it. And I don't see schools using them for their students. We are missing a lot of information. Why? Because we didn't create a system where people have passion in their talents. And you know what rewarding is? It's not money. Because what do people do when they have talent, passion, information so I can? At least they want to perform. And this is action. You know the you know DOPA mine. When does it? When is it released? When it's at least so dopamine and makes you feel good. But the open might also make it easier to suffer. And you know when it's released, when you become better than you are. When you score, when an athlete says I've just broke my personal record DOPA mine. This is intrinsic motivation. So we have to build a world where people get DOPA mysd. Where you see on peoples faces they became better than before and you know how you can become better than before because you are doing something in your talent. You have passion evolution. You learn from everybody and you can do it and that's a competence. So a competence is just a result. So people are very competent today. Are in the group with their talents. Can you understand this? Isn't this what we want for our children? To be in the group with himself. To get top of mind, the natural drug. And this is what we should do. So what do we have to do?

[812.0s - 841.0s]
This is social validated. You know why people get top of mine because of this.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
This is social validation.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
This is social validation. So suppose you create an educational system and one of the children's is studying this passion and is supported by 3D teacher and the kids in the classroom. Start applauding wow. This is you're the best in history. You have graphics, your mathematics, they're plot and you know what happens. This child gets dopa mysd. This is dedication and this continues and this is this is social validation. Social validation today comes from your peers and your colleagues and since we have social media, social media is not only for learning. But through social media, we tell our thoughts about people. And this can be done by peers, but it also can be done by juries.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
From experts do you know what another thing is you can see? Some I've seen something of this is Britain Got Talent. You know this this this girl. You know what she does when she see a great performer, she cries. This is another kind of uploading. And we have to do this more. This is the world I want to see. My Gran Channel brought up. This is the educational system I want. So what do we have to do?

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Or do I have to do? I have a dream. I want to start in Louisiana. And the dream is.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
What I call a competence playlist. How old is the competence playlist? Adjust the competence you like to play. It's like a music playlist. Music Playlist is the music that you want to hear. You put it on your MP3 player player and in different locations. You have another playlist. But suppose you are a human with a competence playlist. And what is the components playlist that other competencies you like to play? An which competence you want? Play the ones you have talent, passion for, the ones you want to learn. So suppose we get.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
I have a diploma and we start thinking incompetence playlists and this compliance playlist. If off your whole life and suppose we are. Kids were going to school to primary school. And we trying everything we are able to learn. And suppose we do something which we have talent and passion. We are eager to learn another children start to notice and then we are starting to build our competence playlist and then after a while it gets filled up cause talents without passion information. Actually no value value. So the complaints play starts to build and then become a teenager. We go to school, we have dreams and we only choose the courses we want to choose. And at the end we have mathematics and maybe welding and digital techniques and creativity. But it's in the sink with our talents. An education built in educational system. We can do this. And so we go further and then we have a competence playlist and this goes further further further further and that's us. And then we are 58 and we're doing what we like to do because finally you are independently not working and I'm all for the manager. We just are. We are we are. And so this is.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
One of the most important isn't very important quote I saw. It's from I think for my.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Mark Twain says the two most important days in your life are the day you were born. And then you find out why. I think this is amazing and this is not what education is doing and this is not what work is doing. I still know it, so I produced a stick for it.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
No shipping. And have awesome students who have this ticket. You can distribute it, so I would really love it that you put a sticker on something. Maybe on your boss on your teacher. Take a picture and let it be your first tweet. But try to suffer. So what we're going to do now is we're going to think of.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
What is the impact of the 3D smartwave worldwide? Watching the timing. OK, so I still have 20. OK So what is the impact of the global Treaty smart and this is happening today. Can you imagine that 3D smarts are taking over the world? 3D smart people who are in the groove of their talents have passion and learn. And you know what innovation is innovation is.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
This is a global treaty innovation wave powered by 3D small.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
And this is happening. Information is increasing. It's increased its information luxury for who, for 3D smarts with passion and talents, and they become creative. And once they become creative, they want to do it. And today, with crowdsourcing and crowdfunding, everybody get money and they are producing new products and services and creative destruction. They are distraction. Everything in the world, their destruction, taxes by Uber hotels by R&B now and everything is changing. Everything is changing and to these smarter just standing there and they don't know it. I don't even understand what is happening. And so this is connected. And there is no speed limit. There's no speed limit anymore. So this is a big festival for 3D smarts. But it's hell for sheep. So that's the reason why most teachers tell their students don't use those ingredients because they become crazy. So how do you recognize 2D smarts in trouble?

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
It's very easy. They don't even understand.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Anymore. They're not coming to Reddit. Are these two?

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
I don't have the answers. They transformed into an egg. So the problem is clear. We have to do.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Something about it because today it's a global. As always, it's a global save our sheep. We have to do something so and then.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
We ask these guys, which are the CEOs Anan principals of schools, what they're going to do and he doesn't know he changes into an egg. And then his management team doesn't know either. And they're just sitting there. And I use the words passion and talent and learning innovation. But I really changed into something I don't understand. I don't know why, but cause no guts, no glory.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
They are so afraid to change the system because they don't understand. And while the whole world is changing. We are facing the end like Nokia. It's gone. You know why? He didn't understand. And this is happening also with dedication. So what do we do?

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Have to do. We have to face some of the biggest dramas in the world. We have to reinvent.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
I don't know first this like this. I did this one of the best thing this is we have to undo the unintended consequence. You know, once we were a monkey. There were men and now we are sheep. This is the human evolution. This is the human evolution an and we have to change this, but 'cause we have to do it so we have to be brave.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
We have to say stop the nonsense. Change. And we need a revolution of students. Leave school before you have a degree. Don't do the last year. You will be remembered. By everybody, because suddenly industry doesn't know who to hire anymore. We have a generation without degree. You know what they're going to look for, passion and talent. So what do we have to do? So.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Change this thing we have to reinvent competence management. And I've been so long in management, development and personal skills. And I'm so passionate about learning. I learned a lot from Internet video. About neural connections and things I didn't know before, I don't even have a degree in. And then the stuff I'm teaching now I just learned it. From passion. And I'm going to tell you what is really complex management competence management is this.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
We have the brain and we have neural connections.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
And at a certain point in time. Everybody becomes unconscious, incompetent. You know what it is?

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
You are incompetent, but you don't know it. You were very happy at that time. Very happy or you're incompetent, but you don't know it is a most pleasant time in your life. And then something changes, not with everybody, but some people change it. It become conscious, incompetent. And you know, this model conscious competent means. Fuck. I'm wrong? And then suddenly you open up and you say, yes, Jesus, he's right. After change it. For me this happens every day or every month, every month. I have a moment that I say Jesus. How come I didn't see it? And then if you have the passion. And you have the talent. You Start learning and learning means you become conscious, competent. You make a lot of errors. You were able to do it, but you still need the manual. And then after a while when you do it along time, you become conscious, unconscious, competent again. You confident, but you don't know it. Do you know what the difference is between this and that? You know how you become from unconscious component to unconscious incompetent? They have an idea. It's very easy. Cause the world changes. This is happening. Because the world has so much power. Like every day, there are new inventions as new technology like the same thing that I watch. Some people say just to watch is not to watch. It's measuring everything what you have. Imagine you have physicians, doctors who say, hey, I can give you a contract 30 euros a month. And your I watch is connect with iPhone and we will send you a warning. That means before you will get a heart attack. So you're driving your car antenna before your heart that excess? Please go to the right or to the left. And skipping your car. The ambulance will be there in 10 minutes. But I will charge you 30 euros. A lot of physicians don't even know this exists. So they are unconscious, incompetent. And it's the same thing with teachers. They don't know how much technology makes possible to change and to learn. And they are unconscious, incompetent. And the reason for that is because they are passionate in evolution. And maybe they aren't even working into that in their talent. And this is a problem. So what do we have to do? Because there's no speed limit, and at that point in time I start.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
Thinking about how can you become very competent? And these are your professional competence. Is that what you do? But how can you become very competent in a world that changes very fast? And I started to think again. We have to become human again. We have to develop personal competences and these personal competences.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
I did a lot of not research, it's just common sense I've seen so much shit that at the end you see light. Hey, that's a quote. OK, I have to remember that so by developing 3D personal competence, what are 3D?

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Personal competence I will give an overview. How do you become from unconscious incompetence conscious component? This is what I call self leadership. Self made leadership ship. That's a good one, yeah? The asset of leadership. Shitan 3DS self leadership. OK OK anyway So what is self leadership? It's seeing the trends. Knowing your talent. And see your destiny. What are you going to create? If you have that as a personal competence. The chance that you're unconscious incompetent become less. And the next thing is you have to Start learning. The course learning is making from conscious incompetent to conscious, competent and this is yourself learning power. And then I created my own law. This is Jeff slow, it's my legacy. This is so good. My first workshop will explain this thing. It's you have to go to the role that gives you energy. Passion to learn. Learning tension and then you have to know where do I have to get information and you have. If you have these two then you made a step from there to there very fast. And the last step is like an athlete. When you become an athlete. Because you do something with it self empowerment. So what I'm going to do with you now and these are the last five or 7 minutes. I'm going to do a live.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Survey because we have to become an age of innovation. At first I do a survey with you and then we did an online survey. Where is the? You want to explain the result of the survey, so I first was server with you and then the online result and then a final slide and then it's finished. OK, it's good OK, thank you. So what I would like you to do?

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Is go with me?

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
You have five fingers. You want to use them trying to use them all. You're not going to the survey about you. You going to do the survey about the people you know. The survey we did online bus from you I right now going to think about the people so I'm going to ask you folks. The first question is.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
The people you know. Do they have self leadership? Do you? Do they know their talents? Do not know the trends in your profession or their profession. Ann, are they talking about something they want to accomplish to create? You know these people, they start talking. And they always talking about this is what I'm going to do. This is what I'm going to create now. If your friends have that competence, you have one. If you don't even know you have 0. OK, you got it going to do this four times. The next things if you look to your friends who have self leadership are they. Do it. Are they sitting in the row where they're working on the self leadership or are they just talking about this stuff and they say if I would have the time I would do it if I would have another job I would do it, but I'm not doing it because I'm paid so much as a sheep that I stay here. Now if they are self causing than your friends are doing what I did because they left whatever doing and doing what I want to do. Now if they're doing what they want to do, you have one. If they don't want to do what they do, they have zero. You still got it. So now we have a maximum of two. And a minimum of 0. OK, so the next question is look to your friends and watch the way they learn 'cause if they have a dream they doing it. You only can do it very well if you learn so. Look at your friends. Are they using all the information sources they need? They are connected to the world. They ask their questions to people wherever they are and I learn everyday. Or do you have friends? I say well if there is no cause, I'm not going to learn it. They have the passion to learn and can use all the information sources if it's true or want if it's not 0. And the last question is. Are there self empowerment that means they are not complaining about? Well, I can't do it because I don't have the resources and I don't have the time. No, these friends say I use crowdsourcing. I make the time. This night I'm not going to sleep. I will do it then you have a one. If they always complaining about resources they don't get 0. So now if you can't. You have something between zero and four. What I would like to do now is and this is a little bit difficult. You should add 5. Because 5 means you have all four of them, 'cause then your imbalance with who you are. So what I would like to do now is the persons who have all four of them. And they are in balance. For their friends, please stand up. For reference, the college they have. This is the problem. This is the reason why we are in deep shit. So what I would like to hear now is the survey results. Can you, can you say something more about that you need a computer? Can you say it this way OK? This is one of the students I met during the briefing, but we have to work more together 'cause she is anyway. See, she did a very quick to conferences. Mom never deleted their kid, not discover Madami employment, not nom or driver bilgere Portugal skinny jeans. Kaiba, Slovenia. The man who discovered the logo to witness tons of the world swam in stress. T medical tyrosine approaches scattering so query am empathic Latina. Those eight knows another plan and vision at the receiver so dumb Casa. In Risultati Super Koszalin Donna list with the ODNI mulennium. The requesting an Australian at the Panama Streamium Hebrew Resultat preaching to representatives Sibley's redeem it nesting name in string and am now on patrol checks of Eden's fault. Atlantic invited those items, Anovas, Nantis Plushness of Eden yeah or or JASSO in action result at NKU. Poveda sister stresses nanny. Novel Miss Lonnie instead, as it needs a change in a prey insensibility, insides of it at the detriment of this community. Unpack GoPro Stopa the active list with this permanently panic attack nail private or a upstair pre monkey I pre. Please remember cleaning up 3 miles per minute into around auto car Jeff, cover it or a sheep model. I said that the. Um? The result being average means that they know there needs to be a change and they are active in their mind. But when it comes to actively change something to really participate in the system. That's where the light comes in, so thank you very much. So what that means is the self isn't there. We have to develop itself so, and the reason why so many people have problems today in surviving in a world that is changed so fast is because their personal Angel innovation isn't developed. And this means that education has to change because this is work for education. So what I will try to do now is an. I hope that the groups of students will increase. Maybe you can play a role in that. Is to find ideas how to change education and work an So what I'm going to do now is an experiment. During this three workshops, of course, what are the three workshops? And this is the true.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Survey results

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
So how do we, value 3D smart sits? We have to.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
Developer Complaints Playlist and I will try to explain what I would like to do.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
So this is really smart. Do you recognize him? It's not with a 3D printer. Right, I was once for a conference in Shanghai. And there was a guy you know you're walking the market. This Chinese guy says AAAA. I make you in Clay. But I'm broken English and said you can't make me in Clay. Yes, make you in clay. And then he asked, I think $10 I got it down until five it took two pictures, front and side. And two hours I went back and he made that. This is just incredible. It was still wet so I could. Little bit changes chin because of her stool too. But that's passion. You know, Anna 3D smart has to develop himself, and that's what I look like that.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
I think. Children and I think that's primary education, but because I'm not, please don't misunderstand me. I don't want to be a teacher. It's not my thing. I want to have a society and industry and are going to be an held that works better than today. But since I'm coming from industry, there's something wrong. And we can only fix it if we start at the beginning. So I'm not telling how to do it, I'm just sharing an idea. But your work much better with children, and I do I I like to. OK, play with children, but anyway that's something else. So let's say that primary school is discovery. And what is discovery? Let children discover what is the power of self casting. I want to do that and develop their self informing how do I get information? After finish, the second thing is how do you create for teenagers at school environment where teens can learn very fast? And show their competence to the world, not in a degree, but has a competence playlist. And the third thing is, how do you become an adult? By deploring your competence playlist? Then what I would like to do in three workshop is give me ideas for primary school children. Give me ideas for education of teenagers and give me I die ideas how we go from school to work. That's it. Thank you very much.
