So I'm sound or set of Tel Aviv University and my Co. Presenter is Claudia, who's sitting here from IBM Research. We assume they are drawn IID, so there's some joint distribution on X&Y and we get a bunch of examples and we're interested in learning about something about the distribution of the properties of Y given X. OK, so we use this data to construct some kind of model F of X which when we're giving a new X, we can use that to predict. So in some cases we may just have missing some components of the supervised learning framework and a classical example is KDD Cup 2007, which I'm going to be talking about is one of our case study. And you have some standard error measure and. So Katie Dick up 2007 and 2008 that we're going to be talking about are. It's a pure machine learning challenge. And so, and that really tells us what the approach would be right? When we think about the real competition to do well, you really have to understand what you're dealing with and understand the data and put it in the right context to build your model. So the first one is obviously data in domain understanding, so we have to understand. Understand properly what the statistical properties of the data is, what kind of assumptions can be made and supported, leading to a modeling approach and understand how we're going to be judged or evaluated, and the third one which is kind of the machine learning component is how we actually going to be performing the modeling and learning, and at least in this Community or in the machine learning community. The large scale factors of success. So what is legitimate data? We can just think of it as types or components of data that will be available when the model is applied in the real world. That's that's X components of X that will be available for to be used for prediction when the model is applied, and that's going to drive our definition of illegitimate and we'll give examples on an so in real life we kind of understand what legitimate means. Because we've isolated the problem from it's real aspect, and it's not always clear what's the data that can be made available in prediction, so this is going to be the first one. In our case studies, and the question is, you know what kind of strategies should we employ then to take into account the fact that we're really talking about return on investment, or some kind of constraint resources problem in applying the model and getting the best performance out of it. Let's define leakage is the introduction of predictive information about the target. That's from the future in the sense that we have X values that represent things that happened after our Y value was determined. I am going to give you an example of how that happens. I think when the next slide is when we have data from multiple sources or multiple time points and we put them together and then it's very. Product web sphere, which is an important IBM product and we find that companies that have the word web sphere on their website are likely to be good customers for web, sphere OK and so here we have an obvious leakage. Why is this leakage? It's Niels Bohr who's quoted the same prediction is difficult, especially about the future. OK, so the key to preventing leakage? We're not usually interested in predicting something that happened in the past, so say there's a situation where we can. It's certainly during the IBM targeting case and we can make sure that our model only has. Access to information at some time T. And then we're going to be predicting something that happened. So when we're talking about a project, then the some real problem in real objective at hand. Maybe maybe we're not good, but our so the question is, can we optimize these things that are really the goals of the predictive modeling project Ann? That's KDD Cup 2008. So at first sight it's just a standard classification problem. And so obvious extension to the most standard, say misclassification loss function, is to do something that's cost sensitive. So because it's much better to do an unnecessary biopsy on a healthy woman than to send home someone that actually has a malignancy. We build our model by taking a loss function whose minimizer is what we want, or something close to it an, and we build our model by minimizing this loss function on our data, and so an obvious example is linear regression or squared error loss. But also true is that if we're interested in the median or in some conditional quantile, then we are going to. Good idea to use quantile. Also absolute loss in the median case. And and in some sense, we'll see how this empirical risk minimization is can be applied successfully in some cases when our evaluation objective is not too complicated. And so an obvious idea which has been people have been working on for many years is to directly develop algorithmic approaches or develop algorithmic approaches that directly deal with relational data and build good build good models on relational data. And so the other alternative is to find the way or to do our best job, possible of flattening the relational data into some matrix format which fits with our standard learning problem. And if we want to do that, then obviously the key to doing it in a good way is flatening in a way that contains that preserves much of the information. OK, so these are. An emphasis of this tutorial is on predictive modeling competitions, So what how can we think of a predictive modeling competition? So an important point is that this I don't know if it sounds easy, maybe to some people it sounds easy, but it's often very difficult to extract the problem. Remains really loyal to the to the problem when put in its application context and we'll see several examples of the interesting things that come out of this process of extracting a predictive modeling problem into a comp. So what exploratory data analysis we can think of it as a general name for a class of techniques that are aimed at looking at our data, making sure it's valid and starting to form some hypothesis about what's important about this data? And so on, and the techniques it's general family of techniques. So we might be testing simple hypothesis as a way of generating or thinking about more complex one, and an obvious example is just take each variable and look at its relationship with their response one by one, OK, and see if there are strong correlations or things that are surprising or unexpected. It's a critical step in building successful solutions. At least the obvious type of leakage by doing exploratory data analysis and it also helps us to avoid preconceptions about what matters and what would work, and so on will see how both of these goals were accomplished simultaneously on KDD Cup 2008. The obvious things that are present in the data. OK so here here here is an example of what the DH could look like. Look for outliers, look for missing data patterns. We may want to examine relationships with the response for each one of the variables and whether there are strong or in particular unexpected strong correlations that we can see when we look variable by variable. Is much more qualified than me to talk about the 1 million prize? The first 2 prices were, so let me let me go back and so the title from 2006 is that Netflix offers $1,000,000 for better movie recommendations. There's been 2 early awards already. What's the Netflix data metrics? We mean that the user has given grades to at least 20 movies, so this is not about how many movies you rented, but about how many movies you graded you rated in the Netflix system, which is not. You're given a list of 100,000 pairs of users and movies in 2006, and you're supposed to guess for each one whether that user actually rated this movie, not what the grade was. A binary objective. OK, and this is not the focus of our talk, but our team did pretty well on that task as well. The other half is the task two test set and what do you do with the task one test set? And so the organizer chosen this is going to be critical. The organizer chose to actually draw these movies according to the product of the marginal distributions, so we prefer taking users that gave a lot of grades in 2006. And movies that got a lot of grades in 2006 OK, and the probability of drawing each pair is the product of the marginal distribution of the user and the movie in 2006. OK, so this is a very brief introduction to what predictive modeling is and what how we think of competitions and what we want to do in this tutorial is understand some things about sort of the two generic modes of doing predictive modeling. One is when you actually do it in the context of your real life projects. And so we want to understand what's common and what's different between them, and we want to sort of understand what we have to keep in mind to be successful, or some important things. And in particular, some of the recurring challenges that are going to be repeating. Office is a statistical insight, so let's let's talk about this one by one. So the first one is that the test set from task one is actually a way of getting information, getting data that's more like supervised learning data for task two. 'cause we know that the movies were put, the movies were put into the pairs in task one according to the marginal distribution in 2006. This is actually proportional to the true response for task 2. What we still have to take into account is this denominator of total number of reviews. And then there's some other things that are interesting that are not that are kind of standard and we have to take them into account such that the fact that there were no new movies and non your viewers in 2006. They give a lot of grades. There is a random memoryless arrival process of reviewers in 2006, so it's probably means that the person distribution is appropriate for modeling the accounts in 2006. And it's it's probably true of the overall counts of reviews in 2006 and. And in particular, the variance stabilizing transformation is square root, so that tells us that the square root of the number of. And what does this tell us about the actual evaluation measure of this competition with doing routines Codell, but we're doing it on the log scale instead of the square root scale, so once we before we do the log, the large. Basically, some ad hoc iterative approach to try and invert the effect of this deletion mechanism. We can think of it as a missing data problem and try to design and yam algorithm that that would probably be computationally very difficult, but so we implemented some kind of ad hoc iterative algorithm. And how can we say whether or not this does something useful? We get the task one test set. We do the inverse rejection sampling that we just talked about and then we get the flat view on the movies of task one. Anne. This part this up to end of 2005 part we also see for the task 2 movies. We didn't actually get a view of how many reviews each movie had in 2006, but of the proportion of reviews that each movie got in 2006 and we still need to find an overall scaling parameter that we have no idea about, and so this whole thing down at the bottom is serves the dual purpose one is to find the scaling parameter and the other one is to make sure that by being. So let's simulate this by hiding the data from the simplest way to simulate this would be take the data on the up to end of 2004. These leg datasets were meant to simulate how we do forward prediction 2006 and. And we built the whole bunch of them 1/4 and if the tower and combine them to get there a model predicting predicting all of 2006 and it has two potential users, one is users predictions, the other one is just a scaling factor for the task one, and so we still have this interesting problem of how to compare the two. So we've had some experience in data mining competitions. There's a lot of very interesting sort of statistical domain understanding aspects to both of these competitions, and they're going to be an emphasis of this. So the point is that when we use the leakage we got the Minsk order on log scale of .24. Do log scale linear regression? OK, Ann. So first we were told that we have won the competition and that our root mean squared error is 770. Right? So this tells us that our solution our based sort of likelihood based solution actually did well on the most popular movies. But then they remember that they actually said they would do it on the log scale, and I think it was good for everyone that the windows were the same to avoid controversy. And on the log scale, the opposite happens. The least popular movies actually emphasized the prediction on their on their large bulk of movies that work. So when we think about the mean squared error of the model, does an error that comes out from the fact that there's some uncertainty in the. So this is just thinking of this as a standard supervised learning problem. And we've also been working together for the last at least five years on on real life projects in particular, business intelligence projects projects. I guess I should have shown that in the 1st place demonstrating this effect of scaling on the very different effect on the log scale and the square root scale. And then the appropriate statistical approach, which which included in the. I think very clearly in this case using fancy machine learning algorithms was not at all an aspect of our success. I'll talk about KDD Cup 2007 and then after the break, Claudia will take command and talk about KDD Cup 2008 and the business Intelligence can study. At least really, it's it's talking about differences between competitions and real life projects, but it's really about the difference between just doing predictive modeling and doing a complete project. Whereas when you when you go to talk to people about or especially to business people, maybe to scientists as well to some extent about their their projects, their goals they want to accomplish and have a predictive modeling component, then they really. It's more typical that really nobody has any idea what's going on. So what I'm what I'm showing is I'm kind of color coding the stages in making real life project work and showing you which ones are really relevant to this tutorial. Just 'cause there of mine or interests for this tutorial. And once we've got the sort of the modeling problem pinned down. So sort of thinking about what RXS and Waterwise are and and what really the function F is supposed to be estimating. So the fact that as predictive modelers we have to really be aware of this step and leakage and other issues that.