On the other thing, OK important here is that. Assuming we want today to each other in the wedding or waiting for William and Kate. Mutiara is some kind of diffusion constant. So this Delta is proportional constant. OK, so suppose I from K2 I the random walk probability is is this weight this probability divided by 8 degree of K standard random walk probability probability? There's a lot of important papers and the graph data of course are widely available. Most of previous research focus on static analysis of graph graph partitioning, 6 partition are static optimization. Cut edges between clusters and the stochastic modeling stochastic modeling and maximize likelihood agenda generative model. The graphs OK, but whatever the machine machine learning tasks you want to do so so awesome takes this regular graph as input and using the disk diffusion process another graph which is much more clustered, much more kind of content, so we can do many things. Well 24 UCI datasets, so these are the names of it. So also micro RNA function analysis. People are typically involved in many social events. In this easier Merle conference. Ways and people are usually connect with each other using connection like meeting friends, friends and friends. So two people with many common friends have a lot of chances to know each other and two friends often have good chances to meet in the same social events. So to give a summary is that we propose a novel, not really normal. It's a simple of social diffusion process. This one almost has no parameter actually that T usually you said 10 or 50 doesn't change things at all. OK, so standard two friends set update 1. One of them brings along a friend third friend. Setup a date. Both friends bring along another friend each. So one of them B brings along front. See the three of them. III processes two friends and be set up date and both front brings along a friend. So because they never know each other and be a mid season never know each other and most importantly seems D. So all these these are social diffusion that way so so so two person meet due to their friends initiative. So essentially, in this social diffusion. These two friends meet due to a common friends into a graph. So beer brings. See allowance to see and a meat is so so. OK, A in the sea meet. So a Prince see alarm B. So these are the truly the simplest possible multiple items that you have.