[0.0s - 29.0s]
First of all, I'd like to take this opportunity.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
To introduce the Alexa organization you know, Alexa stands for Arab League, educational, cultural and scientific organization. It's a governmental organization working under the umbrella of the Arab League. It has the membership of 22 Arab countries, so it's somehow the Arab world equivalent of UNESCO organization and Electro is endeavoring to conduct and coordinate a pen Arabian. Projects related mainly to the area of education, culture, and science and ICT fields.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So listen, gentlemen, there is no doubt that the extremely rapid growth of ICT many concepts you know have emerged specially the last decade. We speak about, for example, mobile technologies, cloud computing, Internet of Things, big data, etc. So all of these concepts have opened up new opportunities for innovation in education. We have now also many concepts and terminology. And in this regard, we speak about mobile learning, ubiquitous learning, smart learning, BYOD, bring your own technology, building your own devices, learning analytics, open educational resources, books, and so on. So accordingly, Alex Rose ICT in education has defined it. It's a scope of work, aspiring to contribute in the spread of these emerging innovations in the Arab region. 0 three, as you can see in the slides remain pillars were delimited. In this regard, the preparedness access, which is a midlevel access aimed at supporting Arab countries in defining their visions and formulating their strategies in terms of mainstreaming ICT in education. Then the technological level consisting in preparing the adequate technical infrastructure suitable for the adoption of educational innovations and at last the educational content, its digitization and dissemination. At a larger scale and educational institutions in Arabic, ducation institutions taking into account the primary key factors of access, equity and quality.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So many references that election has drawn on when defining the scope of work, namely in the future of plan to improve education in Arab countries. Recommendation issued from different Electro executive councils. General Conference is an Arab ministries of education and higher education councils. Besides of course all the recommendation issued from United Nation, UNESCO organisations, the specialized conferences. Like you know, ensure declaration turned out declaration etc and specially the sustainable development Goals, particularly the goal for dealing with the quality in education.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
You know it's important to highlight here the strategy that I look so followed in this regard. So it's multi stake holders and global. You know partnership strategy being true believer in cooperation and collaboration at all levels and at the global scale in order to combine efforts and create synergy with all concerned parties. So here we have established many memorandum of understanding with many. Organizations and institutions. For example, with Commonwealth with the Union School with Commonwealth of Learning with ask me with smart loan against it, wrote in in China and other organizations and institutions and we are trying to collaborate with all of these partners in order to says, you know, the emerging innovations that could be leveraged as scale Rd. Achieving the Sustainable development goals.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So in this respect we have a launched this series of pioneering projects related to this emerging education innovations. So mainly we have we are working in the area of mobile learning mobile industry, so we have the Alexa apps project aimed at fostering the mobile and just to be in the Arab vision by promoting the development and use of mobile learning for all we have also. We always have an MC's project and the cloud computing project, which is aimed at improving the use of cloud computing technology in education and research. Uh.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Basically here, the primary activities that we've been insuring lately are involved in the last year, so we have the Open book project visional and international or activities like Workshop for raising awareness and capacity, building the overall competency framework, the Arab Warrior Forum we have ears today, two satellite events for these two activities that we were that we were involved in the ICT competency framework and. It's contextualization is harnessing open education resources. the Alex Rover hub, the Electromech activities, and at last the Electro apps project so.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
The Open Book project was aimed at expanding access to free and high quality open educational resources. In Arabic will focus on textbooks in science and technology, so there was a focus on trade, translating existing high quality educational resources from English to Arabic. The US Department of State and Electric service as the primary coordinators for activities in this project. So two faces off dedicated exchange program were held in 2014 and was set with the aim to increase awareness of we are in other countries and encouraging initiatives and we have in this Congress between us many representatives of Arab countries that participated in this program and already launched their initiatives. Whether at institutional level. Or at national level. So we have an amazing experience from our colleagues from Lebanon, from Sudan and from other countries. And we have also representative of an educational resources Mary Lou that participated in this in this program. So thank you all.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
We have also join it supported and coconut korganizer. Many our activities we also joined. We have ongoing activities initiated mainly by UNESCO International Organization for Francophonie, Commonwealth of Learning and also at national level. So we can see here a selection of this activities.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The overall competency framework you know this project is. Well, the overcome transit remark is an outcome of project held in collaboration with specially the International Organization of Larocco. Funny with other partners like the Virtual University of Tunisia, Open Educational Consortium. So the framework was defined and specific guide also was prepared. It was prepared and published in English, first in French and after that we prepared. The French, the English and Arabic version that will be soon published by the end of this year. So based on this competency framework, specific materials for training sessions are being developed and are being developing, addressing diverse audiences with the aim to build capacities and the fundamental skills of searching and retrieving Oreos.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
We have the adult oil forum, so it's the main outcome of the exploratory workshop, which was which was initiated by the unit scale office and supported by Electro so. The order of the arrow. Your forearm is kind of community of we are aimed at developing original pilot projects and facilitating collaboration and exchange before we are at a course Arab countries. So the election online training platform was used during this workshop and has served as a representative for the community views and outputs.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
We have also the well known UNESCO project, the ICT Safety Competency Framework and its contextualization. So an inception meeting was held in Tunis, Tunisia, 2015 for seven Arab countries and the project is being currently implemented in Tunis, Tunisia with in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. So the main objectives of this project is to support the design and contextualization. Of a curriculum based on ICT CFT framework. The development of Aria based of course is the upload and sharing of the ovr based courses on Electro and UNESCO platforms and national also platforms and to provide training for 100 trainers, especially inspectors from the Ministry of Education.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So today I'm very delighted to announce officially the launching of the Alexa or Hub, so we've been working on this project these last few years and we have. We can say that now we have a pen, Arabian ovr technical infrastructure that is expected to gather all the Arab open educational resources from the Arab countries so. This. You know Hub was created thanks to fruitful collaboration with the Ask Me and an Arab based interface was pre.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Private, so this is the homepage of the wheel hub we can you can reach it following the URL overcomers.org/help/electro.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And you can find 20 two groups correspond corresponding to the 22 Arab countries. So for each Arab country there would be a local coordinator which is in charge of feeding this this hub. So many resources can be added using the function.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Analytics tools and services available on this help. So here we can see for example the page related to the collection of resources related to, for example the. When is your country?

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So this is some interfaces that shows the process of adding can references of existing oers or national. Oh yeah repository, so the local administrator or national coordinator should follow three main steps and introduce all required description, limited data off the education resources to be submitted. Finally prove you with respect redefined workflow. So once I approve it there.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Service will be added and appear in the country group and I said previously we're currently finalizing the list of national Coordinators in order to organize training session for them and. To let them able to to add resources.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
In the in the hub. So how many minutes I have? One minute OK.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So we have also. Leisured some more activities.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Last year we elected a special program.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
I'm developer program, it's kind of spoke. It's high, it's hybrid training so we have face to face training online training using spoke, so it's of course based on video sequences that we've prepared dealing with the mobile area. So we tried to build the capacity for Arab Yards developer and how to develop mobile apps and how to use also the. Mobile learning. I feel so here. We have some screenshots of the book project and also.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
You haven't answered, of course. The first pilot experience, it's another course. Dealing with also mobile apps development using the vocal Alexa platform so it's a multi platform in Arabic language. So we have some screen.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Source of this course in this place.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Sure. So we have 10,000 students and we get around 500. The students that are certificated completed the course successfully. We have also the Alexa Apps project, which is composed by 4 main components, the Alexa App Store, which is aimed at gathering all the other mobile apps. The Electro Apps Award, which is a competition in order to motivate our developers through to contribute and develop. I have mobile applications so we are at the 3rd edition of the this world. The first one was held in Doha in 2015. This account one was held in Dubai, UAE in 2016 and the third one is held in Tunisia. We have an Electro apps editor that image that is aimed at allowing newbies to how to develop mobile application and.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Finally, a special training program in order to build the capacity in this field, and I've gotta stop now. Sorry, thank you for attention.
