And so let's just put science showing what would come up next. So imagine that you would give feedback for this keyword. Which other key verse would be in the top of the list, then then just position them on the brim. Dimensionality reduction is one dimension, which is then the angle here. And the feature representation here. I'm not going to details on this is simply relevance across the alternative futures that you would get by pulling each of the keywords that are present. OK, then there was the retrieval and now I think that the most important things for the retrieval part given the user model, this is the retrieval given the user model is just that it's fast and simple and scalable. So what we did is that we simply rank the documents given simply as possible probabilistic language model, which would be just the unigram model based on the likelihood that they would give to the relevant keywords. So we chose the task, which was that think of writing an essay or scientific paper about the topic. So then we actually have a ground truth if we have experts who would then evaluate whether these papers were relevant with you, chose, and whether the essay that you actually then wrote was good. 30 users students in computer science and the two forced topics for semantic search or robotics. So the most important important measure is task performance. The relevance is simply, at least according to the relevance is that our user model gives and then the third one is is just a standard keywords typed in keyword search. Method and the difference is clearly significant, so it actually does improve the quality of the essays that people write. R. OK. One more measure that may be informative is that off the displayed articles after. So my claim would pay that for exploratory search tasks, so this kind of an interface which does interactive in-depth modeling of the sort that I was explaining it does outperform pure type query search. And what we implemented? But we did have a dynamic online modeling of the user interests and there was an elementary or maybe not elementary, but a simple exploration exploitation tradeoff system. Second one, underspecified, uncertain, evolving information information need. We need to learn the user model as we go. Our laziness yeah, sorry no pain, no gain, but of course as designers of the systems we probably should try to maximize the cane to pain ratio, or at least the efficiency. We are not building those evil systems OK, and this interface we call intent radar for the following reason so that the interface works. So in a nutshell, what what our solution consists of? So we model the users interests online based on the feedback that the user gives an exploration exploitation tradeoff is taken into account when making the suggestions. What is under the hood?