[0.0s - 29.0s]
So observing the numerous debates about the Web 2.0 and its increasing effects on communication in everyday life, we pose the question. Houses affect science. Does or will science develop new forms of research and knowledge production using technological and social tools offered by the Web 2.0? Can we talk about a fundamental shift in scientific organization, communication or even in scientific methods and reasoning? All will science remains the same. These cells are leading questions of our seminar and about also of our block. What about science Funcom? Since October, we've been struggling to get an overview about different tools, platforms and debates of science in the context of the Web 2.0. So now we would like to present you a short video. That will give you some insights into our work. This video will give an overview about actual tools, platforms and developments of the Web 2.0. Some of them we have already seen and mentioned, but we ask about possible impacts of the scientific community and special. The World Wide Web shapes what we believe and what do we know who we are and what we learn. My name is. Claudia Goober I am having cooler and our question is what about science? How does Web 2.0 affect the scientific community and its work? Let's take a first look at our object of interest at the beginning of the 21st century, 5.8 million researchers are working around the globe. Nearly 9000 universities and research institutes and in about 23,000 scientific journals they are publishing about 670,000 articles a year. That is an average of 1.3 scientific papers in a minute. But this activity doesn't happen in a vacuum. Scientific knowledge and its applications have had a profound impact on the lights were living. One example for this is the World Wide Web. It is originally been an idea from scientists for scientists, yet today its influence reaches far beyond that in 60 seconds more than 13,000 iPhone apps or download and nearly 170 million emails are sent. Not to mention the 690,000 search queries of Google all the 100,000 tweets bursting into the cyberspace. This gives us an idea of how the bustling activity on the web impacts our lives, economies and politics. Let's keep that in mind and get back to our initial question. What about science? How does the web influence everyday research work and scientific communication? To address these questions, let's look at what scientists are actually doing all day long. They're building models and theories. They calculate, measure, and they also get their hands dirty. Scientists read books and write articles. Talk to colleagues and criticize the work of their peers. They go to conferences and earn scientific reputation. This is how the world of scientific communication looked like since the beginning of institutionalized research. But what happens to these established structures in the cloud so far? It would be too much to Summa Paradigm shift of the ways in which scientists communicate. Let's rather picture the web, specially the social work as a new sphere, like an additional layer on top of the familiar peer review conference science in the cloud. We find many applications that focus on general audience, but might be used by researchers as well. Like Google orthopaedia. Recently, however, there are also web services that directly addressed the scientific community. They range from social networks to blocks and share preference measures. Let's take a look into these informants and their potential impact on scientific communication. We've seen how scientific communication could look like in blocks, social networks, and on Twitter. The way in which information is exchanged here and Contacts are made differ from the centuries before the World Wide Web. But the colorful world of signs on the Web 2.0 is still in its infancy. The tools available will diversify, and so far only a small fraction of scientists make use of it. However, if we assume that these trends get more established during the coming years, scientific communication in the web will potentially become even more dynamic, participated, linked and informal. But communication is only one of the areas that may be affected. From another point of view, we see that web to porno could also lead to changes in the social structure of science. At least the following three aspects are important here. First on line, coworking spaces and live stream conferences. The minister role of physical presence at a common geographical location. With that, the functionality of scientific communities, which rests on interacting and timely responses becomes less dependent on physical locations. 2nd in Web 2.0 discussions crystallized around topics and person. Consequently, the barriers to entry for transdisciplinary communication and cooperation should be lower, at least in principle. Third, communication on the web to large extent is public communication. Boundaries between private checks, internal scientific communication an external representation are blurry in the cyberspace. This brief overview has highlighted some important aspects of the relation between science and Web 2.0. However, there are many more questions that need to be addressed. For instance, what do these developments mean for the Constitution of scientific knowledge? How do we deal with intellectual property in the future? How do we assure the quality of scientific claims on the web and what happens to research data data sharing? Today, scientists have the opportunity to play with all these new tools to study what is happening in the cloud and to contribute to what might become science 2.0. We believe that in a world all about communication technologies and networks, it is important to ask what about science? So, OK, after this we have two short questions that would like to ask you that we have been traveling about an hour seminar and the first is as you've just seen, there many hit organic practices and research agendas that are connect.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
It's to different fears and hopes about the web. Is it therefore it possible to take sorry to talk about change in general? Or is it impossible to go beyond local context? And the second is, where could these changes be observed? We have been focusing on scientific communication, social structure. At knowledge production, are there any other categories that could be sure taking in account? That's what we would like to discuss with you, and we hope that we can get some more input for our own discussions. Thank you. So just one question to make the first question more precise. Can you explain about what would you mean with local with local practice? Be 'cause I have a hard time sort of imagining how. I mean research, which is something inherently networks, right? I mean nowadays we see collaboration across many different places, and if you've seen the people that have presented their work here, in many cases it was a collaboration. Across across sites and across scientists from very different places over the world. So in some sense it's difficult for me to. To imagine. How it could be local? So could you clarify a bit what you mean with that? Perhaps it's. Lose if you catch it up with this word local. That's perhaps not the direct question we wanted to bring up. It's more about this general change or what did change. So if you have this communities not necessary local, but they are connected somehow together and they differ from each other. And when you look into different papers, there's sometimes 0 deals that says something like Oscient. 2.0 something totally new from science before and we're asking about, could we have something like such? A general shift? Is there something like one science that's changed or other justice different communities bound to their disciplines and to their questions they ask? And to the Metro PC use is this changing or is something like a general change? So it's perhaps not so much local, but this this connections. I think in my view so far. I mean, I think the question was is it rather this discipline specific or is that something that is? You know, for science in general and beyond disciplines, I mean mom. My observation, which is very personal course, is that. In my group we are looking at things like. You know developing ways how scientific data could be could be released in such a way that very different people can reuse it right? And this is a challenge because we never know. You know who else could use your data and for what purpose? So my observation is that for some discipline it's quite hard to imagine that they would be willing to share their data, where for other disciplines it's becoming rather common so. To give you some examples. On in, in in biochemistry, for example, it's rather general practice that you expected. For example, if you are working on on generating, generating knowledge about a certain protein or whatever sort of expected that they put their results. For example, in a public database, so that other people can access can access their results right and build upon. In in computer science, for example, there's also a culture of releasing, for example, your datasets publicly, and in fact, there has been a cultural change in the sense that I mean for all of us who are, for example, so ready or computer science conference. Many conferences now include in their revenue forms. A category would say something like. Have these researchers. At least some useful data that could be reduced by others, so that for me is a deep cultural change, at least in certain disciplines. But while there are other disciplines where, for example, this code would change has not yet happened, so for example, to give an example, we we have some work, or we're trying to get some work with people from chemistry and the question we get back always from them as well. Why should we release? Our data, I mean our data, is our own intellectual property. And why should we do so? I mean, my observation is that there's a lot of change which in your terms are still somehow local in the sense of it's happening in in some of disciplines, while in others things are either not moving that fast or they're more obstacles because people don't see it, the the necessity. So at least I can just only from from disciplines, and that's I am involved in. I typically communicate with. Come on, another that management in at least in computer science, one observes that a lot of scientific discussion. Well, let's say not realistic discussion, but there's a lot of research related relevant information that's shared using new technologies. So for example, in our community it's quite common that people are in Facebook and they use this for different purposes. Of course the network, but in many cases also to share interesting pointers, which of course is not the same as carrying out a scientific discussion which is impossible. Using something like Twitter or possibly Facebook, but at least it's a good way of of of spreading pointers that people can share and then they can then go to go and look them up and then the scientific discussion takes place. Maybe using other channels, but there's a constant exchange of information and pointers using these social media and Web 20 technology, so that's that's only a very personal. Yeah, I'm not sure if it answers. What you were going for but thank you. We know it's a very big Metro question somehow, but if you say different disciplines, different communities react differentials of 2.0 and they use it for different things, But perhaps we can say that all disciplines and all science have to react somehow. We cause it's so big Web 2.0 they have to do something with us, at least. Perhaps not now, but in future they have to react somehow and simply that they have to react. Is this perhaps a point we can say that influence that is changing them already, so that you have on this matter area to opposite side your idea? Perhaps something like a general change so it's not a specific change that change all the different disciplines in the same way, but all our influence all are changed. We don't know, just a guess, but we're discussing about this. Well, not much more fast than you are. We've just started in October.
