Speaking about linked data dynamics, there's this famous growth of the lot cloud that's being shown in every other presentation on linked data, but we argue that there is more to say on that just to the growth of the loudcloud. And so that you can update your links accordingly. And looked at document changes clustered by host and we came up with this nice graph and it think it takes a bit of explanation what this means and it's best explained if we start off with an example. According to those, so you can say in the top right you have only few documents changed, but frequently for example on deerspecies.org and. Only found only that only 27% of the documents updated values for terms and 24% were just monotonic additions to data. Oh finally, we looked at the RDF link structure, so we as I said we have this fixed UI list in the middle from which we crawl. Where we see for example on Freebase that there's a low volume but constant stream of fresh outward links and for example dbpedia.org is again introducing new links in batches every other time. I presented the analysis from the first half year. As I said, we have collected half a year more by now and these are where the graphs that you may refer to in the questions. We appreciate your feedback and speculations for future Berg. Infinity or whenever. And yeah, the my question would be what would you look look for in the data so we can start off in discussion? We've seen as we've started off with this, that we are part of a bigger movement because the website is trust started. What it's all about. So the quote on the left hand side is from Professor Dame Wendy Hall, and which is essentially saying is that when we want to study the web and we want to understand its dynamics in order to know what's happening and for that. In this paper, we. The combination of what we did was essentially we took the 220 example. You rise from the data sets in the last cloud and to evenly balance it we took the 200 shop page rank your eyes from the BDC 2012 data set and crawled from there 10 times in order to get 100K your eyes so that we also cover a bit more unstable providers. Findings from the first half year of observation. Or for example, are there provider dependent publishing that patterns and this calls for observations on different levels of sections.