For example, in the case of scene, understanding or object categorization, we have multiple feature descriptors that you can use to describe an image. And with challenging each of these scenarios is that you need to find some way of optimally combining these potentially very disparate sources of information and such that you can obtain accurate classification. Multiple kernel learning where we have a single weight per view, right? Here we compare our approach in red to variety of baseline approaches. In particular, we compare approach to Gaussian process classifier defining each view as well as the approach of global combination. And here I'm showing the curve for a four clusters, but you can see that we increase the number of clusters and affect our algorithm is fairly insensitive to and over clustering of the space. The first task was looking at a view disagreement data set from our previous work, which was an audio visual task that consisted of 15 subjects interacting with an avatar, answering a set of yes and no questions with head, gesture, and speech. So in essence you have kind of this per sample occlusion problem occurring, overview disagreement and in our experiments we simulate the view disagreement where we place a sample in the visual modality with background head motion. So multiple kernel learning proposes a good framework for combining multiple sources of information, where you define a kernel function, interviews and then essentially you combine the different sources by combining those kernel functions, for example by adding them together or by multiplying them. A commonly multiple kernel learning you seek a global combination of your different sources. Now if we increase the amount of view disagreement, then we see a few things. First of all, the single view classifiers degrade because if it's completely included in one view, then you can't reliably estimate from a single view. So increase the number of clusters. So in conclusion, we presented a localized multiple kernel learning algorithm with Gaussian processes, where we model the covariance function of Gaussian process with as a product of a parametric function, Anna nonparametric kernel that measures across feature importance. Sees that learns a local waiting over space. And for tractability, we assume that the local waiting is piecewise constant and perform a clustering of the space and learn a componentwise waiting over the space. So one benefit we did see on the Celtic 101 data set for having a local waiting in the case of missing data. Very much so. You like the the marginal likelihood. There's been work on global kernel combination, SVM, learning frameworks as well as global kernel combination, probabilistic frames with Gaussian processes by Co portal, which is actually work developed in our group and collaborators. So Gaussian processes are Bayesian approach for doing regression where you assume Gaussian process prior with the space of functions regressing too. You can marginalized out these late enough variables which which results the. And doing so reduces the problem complexity to M * N parameters. So this gives us order N parameters, but still a fair number of parameters to learn under this model.