Is that AI and deep learning of course depends very heavily on good systems knowledge, right? Some analysis here is to keep asking how much is there that could be gained. If you can achieve that speed up. So how do you know if there's actually more to be done? Our baseline is the fastest sarcodes could ever possibly run, so we sort of call this the speed of light measurement. Usually it's going to cost you more to go faster if you're already close to the speed of light. How do you estimate the speed of light? How do I know in advance without trying to run tons and tons and tons of benchmarks? So let's suppose that I give you a fixed amount of computation that you have to perform. So I tell you, please do this convolution or this matrix multiply as fast as you can, and I'm going to give you all the hyperparameters so you know exactly how much work you have to accomplish. And this is incredibly hard to do in general, so if you have an X86 processor there, there's all kinds of incredible stuff going on in there to make your programming faster and more convenient, and so figuring out what it's going to do and when and when you're going to run afoul of it is really, really hard. And So what we're going to do is represent our computer with computation and memory only. The key assumption that we're going to make that will make all of our analysis possible is that I can always stream in memory simultaneously with doing computation. So if we actually ran a sequence of operations on this little stylized computer, and then we loaded it up in our profiler and looked at like a timeline view of what was going on, we might see something like this. We we need to figure out how much it's going to load in store from memory. And then the up there we go. What I wanted to do instead is. And so the best way to actually learn this stuff and really get it down path is to see a huge number of examples overtime to wind up building lots and lots of deep learning systems. And what we want to know is what's the best possible throughput we could achieve for this on our little hypothetical hardware platform? So if I work those out it turns out it's going to take about .16 microseconds to do the compute part about 7 microseconds to do the loads and stores. And divide by the number of bytes that you need to load or store. So these two constraints from our computing platform are little computer model or really easy to draw. So it's easy to see the relationship between compute and memory in this model, and so based on the sort of theoretical numbers for our system, we decided that 20 flops per byte was what we needed to be compute bound. We can take the number of bytes that I have to load and store for this, so MK for this guy KN for this guy and then 2M N 'cause I've got a load C first add to it and then store C. I multiply by 4 bytes, the number of flops that we need to compute. The extra terms over here aren't that important. So this roofline model is basically your upper speed limit, right? So with this analysis, all the things we've been carrying out have been giving us a throughput number, and that throughput number is basically the point along this line. What's worthwhile to look at? So in practice this theoretical limit is hard to reach. And then I'll also talk a bit about how do we talk about performance on a single node. So in summary, what we want to do is find the maximum potential throughput, which is to say the speed of light to know the best performance our code could ever possibly get. And then we're going to benchmark ourselves against this every time we go to optimize the code, change the model, look at new hardware we're going to, we're going to keep this in mind, and a factor speedup is nice for you, but it's not actionable really for figuring out the next step. This, however, on current hardware does not imply that it will be the fastest experiment and the reason is because of these systems issues. So, So what size should we actually try to use? We want to compute limited and the reason for that is that if you aren't compute limited, there's probably a free lunch somewhere to be had. OK, so your model is supposed to be compute limited, but you're not achieving the throughput you expect. Adding two arrays together, there's some bucket of things to try to improve memory bandwidth. And for high intensity workloads, there's another bucket of things to try that is usually different and you should ignore all the memory bandwidth stuff. One final note, again on code complexity in the speed of light. And So what people often do to mitigate this is they'll write separate pieces of code for all of the different parameters that they want. Really, Gates research progress that determines how quickly we can move toward our goal is the speed with which we can get around this cycle from the from the moment we have some idea for what we're going to do to the time we can get it into some code and then get results to sort of jog the next idea an the sort of sad reality is that this little innocent PowerPoint arrow here is something like weeks or months, so you quickly jump here 'cause you coded it up in Pilar and and then you're stuck for about a month. So to go even faster, what we want is to use many CPUs or use many GPU's in many machines at once, and the unfortunate state of things is that there are relatively fewer tools and libraries to help you with this, and so in a sense you're going to be on your own much more often, and figuring out the performance issues in these systems, and sadly. So to sort of step back for a second, I want to pose the higher level question or just what can we hope to achieve by having more computing power? What we'd really love to do is achieve higher throughput for this same job by just breaking it onto these two nodes. Ideally we would get 2X the throughput for this system in aggregate. The alternative, though, which wasn't really useful before, is that we could parallelize and make the workload larger at the same time. Or I use a bigger mini batch size for example, and then I parallelize it. OK, so if you can use a bigger model as I said. If you think having a doubled. You should try to do this first. So. Understand this, we need to go back and we need to analyze the performance of our multi node system. So first, what we're going to do is try to partition the work and just start by assuming that our network has infinite bandwidth. So we can work this out right? And then the number of flops that I've got to do is also half as much. Deep learning was down here, we just didn't have enough data. This winds up hurting you. So I'm going to assume that we usually run at the full throughput. So what we're going to do is use this same sort of roofline model, but we're going to make the distinction now between local and remote memory, and so before what I had was node one talking to its own memory, and for the purposes of figuring out how efficient node number one is, that's the thing I want to deal with. Basically we need much higher intensity. That would be too small because depending on what I'm doing, my processor probably can't do 1000 flops at 6 teraflops right? Why does it matter or how? And then remote memory access, which is the amount of stuff I need to touch on node #2 in this whole operation right? It's the size of this thing and so the overall intensity of this workload, which is the number of flops our machine is is willing to carry out as part of this algorithm for every bite of network traffic. If we go back to our roofline model and ask how big does N have to be in order for us to be compute limited, we'll find out that we need end to be something like 4000, so we need a really big mini batch in order to make it so that when I send this. The key assumption in here was that we could always stream memory simultaneously with computation, right? So if I can actually stream W while it's being computed, and Ann is big enough, I can actually pull this off. Do a little analysis of how long it's going to take with different sorts of transfer schemes, and then pick the order that's going to give them the highest intensity. So we've seen how partitioning affects our ability, our ability to scale right if we cut up our workload, it hurts our local performance, but we can make an assessment about whether that's important or not. The changes in the distribution might also introduce a network bandwidth limit that we have to fight against. So there are a bunch of different ways to try to make things faster, so certainly we can change the software, right? Fifth, running slow, we can dig into our code, go look for bottlenecks and try to make the software faster and to go through this point. We were having a conversation yesterday about attentional mechanisms, where you might really like to have this attention scheme that looks around in a big video. So. That sort of represents your cluster, and you can ask what is the overall Max throughput of the work on each of these nodes. That's a given hunt for the partitioning strategy that gives you a very high speed of light for which the speed limit is really high, or the intensity is very high, and that's a good candidate for something to try. And then when in doubt, you can a judiciously apply the metal solution. We're just sort of measure against the speed of light. So if I give you a fixed problem size, let's say I want to do a convolution in a convolutional neural network. So in a sense, throughput is a sort of gameable metric. It will be something you know like 1000 GPU's running at peak and the number of operations you're finishing will be awesome.