So I she just said I'm very sorry I'm a member of the data Mining Research Lab at the High State University. MLRMCL is is competitive with metals. Regularised MCL overcomes the fragmentation problem of MCL and multi level regularised MCL further improves the quality and the speed of MCL and so in the end we have achieved an algorithm that often outperforms the state of the art algorithms, both quality and speed wise on a wide variety of real datasets. So the problem statement is graph clustering. On directed possibly weighted graph and we want to partition the vertices of the graph into into disjoint sets so that each partition is a coherent group. So this has a number of applications. This was the original algorithm for clustering graphs using stochastic flows. For example, it took around 1.2 hours to cluster 76,000 known social network and it's also prone to output too many clusters. So just a brief bit of terminology we will call the transition probability from a node to another node in the graph, as the flow from that node to the other node, and we can. We can put all the flows from between all pairs of nodes in a matrix and we can do this just the usual Markov transition matrix. You can see that once you construct the transition probabilities, the nodes at the end flow with probability one to the node in the middle and the and the node in the middle flows with probability have to either of the nodes at the end and you can put that in a flow matrix and we put the flows out of out of each node in the in the column corresponding to that node. You initialize the flow matrix to what we call the Canonical transition matrix or the Canonical flow matrix, MG, which is simply the normalized column normalized adjacency matrix. As well as gives flow to new notes, excuse me. And what this? And then we re normalize each column to have someone. Do over fitting, in particular because it does not explicitly penalize divergance of flows between neighbors. So how do we? The flow in the original graph from the node I to its neighbor J. So Fortunately for us, it turns out that this penalty has a simple closed form solution. So the regular step takes into account the flows of the neighbors as well when updating the flows of the node itself. And the advantages that we derive from using this framework that the course is running on the courses craft first helps us capture the global topology of the graph and the second benefit is that it's faster to run on the courses on the smaller on the smaller steps first. So you can see that in all four datasets there is quite a significant improvement in and cut scores, ANAN with respect to speed, MLR MCL is on average 96 times faster, and on the 76,000 Epinions graph, MLM sales runtime is 26 seconds compared to MCS 1.2 hours.