So grow Garcia program at the Institute for Science and Department of Aerospace Engineering at talking abilities assigned this virus center of Education research, especially for transdisciplinary flow dynamics. However, the aerodynamic performance at Cruise is seriously low, so the cruise condition is somewhere here and on this axis is a drug, so drag needs to be small. It shows unimportance of design variables to objective function. Only this CP91. So like the data preparation mean to decide the mining method and thresholds and selection, mining, result visualization, energy valuation and validation and knowledge Fusion and decisional strategy. Low quality data means in inconsistent data, duplicate data, missing data, outliers sensor and truncated data or time dependent anomalies. We also might need the data quality mining so data quality measurement and also the improvement through data mining techniques like exploratory data analysis, multivariate statistics, classification, clustering, visualization and also the quantitative data cleaning which we may need to consider for establish approximation model. So it means the science of analytical reasoning facilitated by interactive visual interfaces. For example data quality mining. Also, data mining for optimizing results we can use like classification analysis or clustering, or to get the Association rules or causal analysis. And there's a one invited speak at the conference from NASA Ames Research Center. He was talking about the virtual sensors in our science and astrophysics and try to. And there are some activities of the seoi, and we hold annual international conference on Flow dynamics and this year it will be hold on Noble, forced to six. We organize a gcode joint Laboratory of design exploration to advanced optimization and data mining techniques for real world applications through international collaboration. And also we are interested in collaborative research to improve accuracy of approximation model by applying different techniques to various test programs and applications or to investigate the characteristics and usefulness of various data mining techniques by applying them to optimization results. I suppose much of this is exploration is important and useful for craft designs, especially to extract important information, particularly when design space or design problem is unknown. And I believe there are many machine learning techniques useful to improve aerospace design exploration system, like a data mining, data quality management, visual analytics etc. So progress of computer dynamics where aircraft enables driver prediction about aerodynamic performance, especially at steady state. To proceed much objective design exploration rather than just a simple optimization, cause knowledge discovery from optimization results is more important than just finding optimal solutions, because optimization results can contain relationship between design variables and objective functions or importance of design variables to each objective function or tradeoff information between multiple objective functions. Here I just try to show 1 application of mulch, objective design, exploration to my restore wink for PBP able means personal air vehicle or ARM and Arabic. Much attention has been paid for personal air vehicle, especially for leisure and also for the future computer instead of a car in the future, so it's typically has like a two to six seats driving at flying at 150 to 200 mph, and it has to be akin to driving a car. But most crucial most important issue is a safety, especially if this is a personal use. Which has a milestone characteristics so our targets are trying to accomplish my store characteristics for safety enhancement as well as to achieve high CL at High angle attack for landing and taking off conditions and also try to improve the cruise performance for practical use. So idea to realize this milestone characteristics is to prevent sudden drop of CL by making use of two different efforts having different store characteristics so. So on this simple rectangular wing, almost all the wing has a separation.