That God rocks, locks and genes from other species. I believe that gene transfers can date the tree of life. By rough I mean the geological record, and in particular the fossils contained in it and fossils in the Georgia correct? Your only source of information on dates in the Tree of life. Information, in particular it's a source of information on time under speciations. The order is my gene tree. Very simple. The Red CD part is jeans and species C&D or sort of in the wrong position in the gene tree. Fossils provide provide, and their only source of information on direct on absolute age, and they provide direct evidence of minimum and indirect evidence or maximum age. They don't provide any information absolute age, but they do provide direct evidence and relative age. Then just maybe 10 million years older than my current oldest fossil. This idea goes back to the 60s. Took work under the power link. Token polling were able to sequence amino acids, determined amino acid sequences more precisely. Other proteins, in particular hemoglobin, and looking at the sequence of different hemoglobin. For instance, human and horse hemoglobin steered the Alpha sidechain. What they observed was that the accumulation of differences but proportional to time right time wish they could tell from the fossil record particularly found that between human and horse you have 18 differences in no estan amino acids, and you're gonna sign under 30 million years to that based on the fossil. In amino acid sequences and time. It cannot be the case if you look at this tree of this molecular family tree. This gene tree here coming from bamboo, but you clearly see, is that the clocks are ticking at different rates right here. Very precisely, using molecular information. So in this tree you would have molecular sequences at the tips that you observed today in these various mammals. And with red you see fossil calibrations, which are also uncertain, and combining the two, you have the blue estimates for node edges, which, surprisingly, this is a result from the last decade, maybe at least in high school I learned that mammals diversified after the meteorite which killed all non avian dinosaurs. So my I'm going to try to convince you that the solution is to take a look at genes from other species and what I mean by that is horizontal gene transfer or the process of horizontal gene transfer. Which, well, it's common among unicellular organisms to list rate hike works. I'm going to show you an example with animals.