[0.0s - 29.0s]
Online Catholic, violent expressive performance. I'm going to describe this part of the logic project in which we are trying to do process. Based on constant, and in particular we have been studying expressive performances in in other instruments, and science will be ongoing for anything in my group. Sizing modeling based on gestures. So we tried to model a Celtic filing. We have also done somewhere in the classical violin, but a popular music gives lots of room for expression. Is a particular interesting to study, for example ornamentations. And then there's more freedom of interpreting at least so. I got 2. We together but at the center and there were people in the County University for presenting someone with.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Later. So first of all, what is equivalent in case someone doesn't always when we listen to something? Well, we are very play from a score with partner programs in conference golf course because other communication of the piece for another very important parts come from the performance. But he introduced into the school. So while trying basically to model these parts, we have these people have the audio recording of the score and then we want to model. But he's introduced into store to make it sounds interesting. So basically easy. These minor fix, so we subtract that. We probably think about. This is given by this code and then we try to model.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Please let me know. In the past, this could be installing the credit for foreign countries starting in psychology, have important or important topic. I have this ecology. Normally a person sits down and writes a theory about retailers, users between performance professional style in some instrument and then later tests there. He saw her theory into with real data and then probably go back and do it again.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Here here we are. Instead of doing that manually by applying machine learning to predict local transformations in given a score and the context for notes, and even with the contents of a note, this has been studied also machine learning and before, but most or 95% of the important point here in this topic has been in classical piano. So by the problem is by different one considered proper embassy. I'm very important. Also had some people. Do we have two ends? In general I'm going to talk more about this one for the top, but in the project we will present in probably the most important and needs to be able to give a score to the computer and then the computer will perform in expressively automatically from the models but also very interesting looking thing. Models are interpretable that we can kind of rules and then make sense of them. In the past we haven't been very successful because we get so many days. Then I'm there, like complicated rules that it's very difficult to go 1 by 1. Some of them make sense, but most of them we.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So a basic research framework example about how we have the score on the system that we have. We have the performer from the school we used to produce our machine representation of XML file, TXT file. From there we structure structure of the piece. From this side we obtain basically recording. We extract something boring description because these audio surveillance only some symbolically high level descriptions of their performance. Then from the symbolic feature requesting representation. As I said, we subtracted more or less dropping subtract 1 from the other and we would get expressive aspects injury calling you at least not in this problem was playing. And then a from the structure of the expected aspects. An answering machine representation. We apply machine learning. In this case graph using the document priority, we have 27 techniques. In the past I work there model which we analyzed and covered under rules, in this case, or we can connect with their output and then probably that will fit back into the into the process to try.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Remember correct differently, so we have Irish 4 pieces. Hey, would you like very much and then they they play by dividing and particular note we are focusing on characteristics of the note itself like viruses which there and also in useful context like a window in time that everyone comes before what comes next an.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Very much so. The particular thing we want to model in this in this particular work, which we want other things in the past duration, we wanted to check with all the model that terribles how to do how long to replay information in context allows you to play longer than if it's not. It's verifying this core or when should claim short tales of energy or dynamics. We want to know whether not should be playing softer or louder than the average level of the peace. Easier ways regarding Irish intimacy. Definition definition. In Irish score. So you have indication of which down, which help. So we want to predict which notes are played with. It will blow over. Then we come down. And this is basically also because the synthesizer values and take this into account. We take the gestion into counter, produces the third method, since it seems it is. I'm also important data that was saying compared to classical music. Many people different buying everyone introduces it, knows that I'm not in discord, then very well. Either one of the other kind of online.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Parking lot on occasion we got rained out 970 pieces that audio. Going to get 100 nodes and then extract features from.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So we recordings very rough and also to apply a short time FFT and then some there. Very similar personality to say estimation of the Peach. Also detection and we completely have no boundaries, but without boundaries we obtain the mean energy of nodes and at the end, but very interesting to do. Symbolic description. Is there maybe not for each number in late onset duration and?

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Energy of the number I have to say that also we have been using. We have a we have a system which it takes. Gestures as if it detects pressure of all speeds about a also directional below. So we have been using that also to send them better because the very manageable to segment automatically so. What are the descriptor preservation before sonar? We do benefit specifically now, which is moderation. Peach and magical strength depending on weight increases about, then we have a local kind of descriptors which taking account context I think I found the previous note. The next node, relative duration and pitch and then also we have no need to relax and following on Twitch are most important, but also we have a window that too late prime we can make it as big or small. As the system, once we all set this, we just limit like $10 in advance in terms. Before, in order to make it efficient, now we have atomic structure in this picture. Which are you know in other groups, affirmation value here and the owner.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So just to counteract working etc would look in the new proposed musicology proposed proposed a theory which says that that any two nodes that for interval creates an expectation on the following nodes. So so when we listen to, for example, to a big interval, he says to Model 5 semitones then we are in currently expecting the next number 2 before the next interrupt to be in the opposite direction on a small interval. So everything there are these followers monitors in the opposite direction. If Molly Spacefox any terms and then there are some groups that are more respected, this one is number one we expected or how they want it. We have a small interval is expected respecting another small interim same direction, but sometimes we have groups in which only one of these two direction to publicly. We respected only one of them is more big fertilize mode or another direction, so this is less expensive, so we have a memory we Parson memory to obtain. The numbers at this time.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
We usually have a feature. They letting other in very quickly this today. How much time can we apply? I am not very thriving. Particular system called team. There will use first order logic rules which are global variables instead of propositional rules. And most decision 3 on the produce and a until they can be seen as professional extension to the typical algorithm for interesting and personal trees. Which are, you can decision trees and then. The difference is that field test logic predicates nodes as opposed to violent attributes. So here we have. Symmetrical strangers I know this one with these two. This predicates to impose direction is not there so so. This seems very similar to proficient trees, but the advantages of using data requiring the rules are more expensive after school about Bruce and also a very good point of insulting references, we can evolve back. I know which into the learning process, but naturally so we actually have some background predicates which don't related samples, but that data, for example successor. And by using we have more than this one more about successor allows us to define these windows. Open times about Netflix and we will have to find out things that he's doing your or future of the world and for example, least reliable rule. The extracted says the liberation of our knowledge should be lengthened by 4%. Substances, and instead of a successor of that multi season, this internal systems in our system we have. But it says how they all there. So then we got we change these successes. We can look really saying that nothing there in order in my party percent is not end or three. Three months later it belongs to another group of what they really want to set. So this is very useful because we don't fix it down there. Darling, just lens. But using one quickly.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
It means so the going back to what we want and then we train the system with some predicates for direction we want with. We want to obtain operation ratio, so if it is, why is it sadness in this code? If it is more than one is strengthening. If it is like someone is shortening the same for energy, has both direction and operational application tasks. We just want to for now we want to know if they could change involved, so I've no there's no change that we play with. The notes in the same direction and then when they, when they had changed. When you change how you keep going that direction, they're operation. We just at the moment. For $50 we have all the length which is 1 hour before they notice core or not.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Not normal. Therefore, the results we have some nice correlation coefficients of our models. It may. Is up there in like cancellation there nice also traffic correctly, but the pricing for Disney chances for second percentage well in that notice in general is not very much in this context. So what we do check that noise behaving well before we take a piece that we not recording but we don't use it for training for training. And then we train the rest of the pieces and then we then remodel time. We tried to reply and also there. Well kept apart we check how declined these from the from the one that was actually play so the correlation and we have these languages as well. He's quite close. These perform their mother must play by their position is a black line and they predicted that our model predicts please a purple line and then you can see that it's not exactly the same, but the trends are there. So I think most of the cases with system lengthened by models in factor. Awesome so so the system behaves well. At least this also. Nobody.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Correlation. Well, she does he stay we will take on a new phone but nothing useful for training. We apply to know which is based on these four others I mentioned. We have more a set of rules for each dimension. Refrigeration, invasion involved, direction and normally and then we apply these changes. Engine simply sending these uprisings. Yeah, about that. Just synthesized using this information. Since I've been there. OK so just to show an example of what is the result, this is all computer generated circles and sound. But there was a piece I'm going to play is all eight modes score planes? All eight nodes list of this. Of course changing the duration and the energy to certain extent because the engine doesn't handle everybody. It will be much more like regular control. The notes are eighth notes and then help much technical one. OK so. And or something.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Naked and therefore a somewhere we have we're doing now on some future work we have been using these also for syndicated for performing with education. So we have a favorite Disney with self defense, self inviting environments and tried to tell we just train a model for each of them. Then we have a new recording and then check which mode is closer to their performance and decide which one is it. The piece we also exploring moves in expressive performance, so we call that piece in different moods and try to obtain model for different for each move. That then seems something different moves we are we would like to have not that to introduce the browser into the into the model or not. She will do that. I order online times not only like like one note before they actually play, but they often. I do not get another one from chapter. Note will also do like someone. Not gonna lie. The rules to go through the rules and see which which ones make sense. Addition. Or we might also apply machine learning to speak to get more structure of appeals because it's in their structure located now. I know you see very localized you would like to have lower structure and also we have this happen between absolute final time multiplayer. Expect performances, fault music in general is playing at growing up and so not only the score of the picture after you're playing place. Rolling to how to play, but this thing to get people in the Bible makes no sense and they also have different people about a different system for expressing performance in teaching, not to play varying, not just the technical trying to teach you how to play expressively. Accounting system examples. Do you know any good student? I went through you wanna do lunch and ask him to check on him? Few minutes for questions. But you have the rules, some of them applied Wichita mentally mechanism for choosing one or choosing another particle system improves. So then you apply the first one is that we apply in the conditions of the second one. Matches in your favor, and that's all there is. But it is not, however, if we might decision tree to apply for the first branch with the components and some. I need for this respect sort of help with. The rooms were obtained. So many people kind of system with rules. You have a sequential covering algorithm which you take the 1st and then remove those examples and then apply them again. So they make same stuff done and all that too. I thought you had these local contact his local windows that you would compute a feature for that whole time window. How do those appear in your rules? Yeah, the example you presented in including without doing a. These examples.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Oh, we can do it. Do you mean count how the window? This is a window, for example, of the. We took steps that we can apply. You can extend it. We don't have. Looking forward. Progress is tipped over. You looked Reno selective and you said there's next three. Nothing good has some property. Then you say we should do that. OK, thought from earlier did you have window when you're computing a feature for the whole window in one of your earlier so please. Yes, that yeah so. So we compute some features for the nodes, some features which are related to the next. Some previous model fits and then these variables into the given by the success of predicate independent so that we can extend these as much as we want and talk about properties of these nodes with most of those won't do it either and they just extend when they find out that an interesting that we are not alone. Much like there is playing a role into how to play this. So the window with a sensually tells. How far you can continue going back with the successor benefits includes, yeah, I mean, there's no efficiency means that you can make it envisions. We have correlation coefficients based on duration deviations of the absolute durations themselves. Because using the more like tonal harmony information like sort of the like picture from the scale over the looking for things in my passing tones or something like that. Yeah, I think we have already seen that information is like if I notice in the code or in. Like these policies that we have to extend to the thing and I'm running a system so. Can we have a coffee break controller?
