The web, as you know, is is vastly populated with with this kind of web pages there. This I came to the idea to elaborate a little bit on on web rhetoric and then I must explain briefly, intentionality and textuality. Well, first because you have invited us to talk about web epistemics. Rigid parameters which can be used in order to create a rather formal model which does not imply a strong filter of information which otherwise would have been included if we would follow a more interpretive way of discussing the epistemic pressures which emerged out of users of web pages. Overall we can study web epistemics and also in the case of organizational websites where I as I said we have a very special kind of navigation. I'll come back to that again. As I said, is the merging of standards of knowledge which can do service back to the use of web pages. So organizations must send signals to their customers or their clients. We which constitute the external environment among those is also the general public which perhaps perceives, or the organization wants to them to perceive the image and their characteristics, and they want to disseminate some kind of knowledge or signals to them. I mean what happens inside the organization or what had pets? Outside the organization is very often expressed on platforms of communication which characterize organizational, specially business organizational websites. So we get some kind of web epistemics related to web rhetoric. And then, well, the Internet has created this web rhetoric. Well, there's a problem of relations between intentionality and articulation. So we have them central messages. And this central messages may trigger hypertextual processes by, but there is a problem of triggering effect. But if you make a second then there's very material things off the organizational backstage, in front of your eyes. And of course there you have a connection between managerial hierarchies and the public through the website. Although they are very, very common exploitation of the medium. These things that defined hierarchies, norms, closure, define intellectual, emotional and emotional stances of the users. From the observation of those websites, are frozen images of organizational knowledge. So how can we can we? The actual effects of this kind of users of corporated web pages so.