[0.0s - 29.0s]
Now going to tell about more recent project that's going on in the United Kingdom, and it's about the use of the Internet for higher education. Actually for education and research, or for the training of researchers. So this is about a subfield so specialized thing is not about general educational question, but it's a very important field, I think. Also, technologically, this is going to be. Changing the landscape of both research and technology in the near future. And. I'm going to tell you how we are using the Internet to do the training in this specific area and how we're going to reach many more people than before with face to face training. So my name is kelpien have recently joined the University College in London where this is ongoing and I'm glad to see so many esteemed colleagues here from that same institution. And I'm going to.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Now get this. So what is it about? It's actually not about biology, as you might suspect in the 1st place, but it's about mathematics, informatics, bioinformatic's, and computation. So why would that be? Well, the Research Council for the Biological Sciences has discovered that there is a slight. Discrepancy in the Biosciences, namely the Biosciences, have advanced a lot. I didn't say in the last 20 years bio Sciences have advanced in the sense they have become much more technological. Much more demanding.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
The use of mathematics computer science, engineering concepts, and much more than can be accommodated by the current curricula. Yet the curricula are to certain extent stiff and they're not advancing as as quickly as the Biosciences are advancing, so they have asked themselves, how can the scientists, the people who do the research and who do the biotechnology? How can they stay up to date? And what is actually needed to to help these people stay up to date and to follow that?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Technological development, so this project that I'm going to talk about is sort of a solution for this, or a momentary way of addressing this problem, and it has three points in the first thing is that biologists or bio scientists do need mathematics. I'm sorry for many people. I know this is bad news for many people who started biology in order to avoid mathematical calculations, or that was precisely the reason why they did not go to engineering college. There's no way around it if Biosciences, and particularly medicine, are the exact Sciences that they're always pretend they are, so they will, so they will have to use a mathematics for the quantitative description and they will need computer programming because the mathematics is not simple and small size is actually large scale and implementation does require some knowledge of how to use a computer and how to program it. Second thing and the third thing of course. Then if you want to implement all those things, you also need to be aware of concepts from engineering like controller feedback. This is not trivial things and they have been around for a long time, but you actually need to learn them even if you're a bioscientist than you thought you could escape that. So yes, for quantitative digital and rational future bio science and biomedicine, we think this is needed and sold. The Research Council has addressed this by.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Giving some money be associated.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
The British Research Council for the Biosciences and Biotechnology, and it's a bit small here. At the bottom they want to foster a culture where biology routinely includes mathematical, computational and engineering tools in order to keep, for example, the UK ahead of everyone else. Well, there's UK.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Research Council so they have this mission, of course, so the funding hears about 1,000,000 pounds for the years that this has started in 2012. But actually the program runs only since this summer, so it's very recent. Then we have money to take approximately 250 places.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Via the Internet. But that's still open and thing is not only based at UCL mainly yes, but it's actually a consortium of places that I would like to mention. So there's our colleagues in London, Birkbeck College with some structural biology Edinburgh has brought in some some expertise from systems biology because they had a BBS, RC funded systems Biology Research Center, so they have also included a bit here and I would like yeah. Actually, this place has been mentioned so often now. It's not a surprise, but for Bioscientists that comes as a surprise. What should the Open University be there? Well, with more than 50 years of experience in delivering. Contents for example, mathematical contents at a distance or to anybody out there in the world. This program would not run in this minute had we not had access to the materials and to the experience, and also to the Systems administration that we took from the Open University. So here's a big thank you to this institution, and I'm glad to see that many P.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Will also go into this, so most of this money is actually at UCL. So very briefly say that we also have some manpower or womanpower. We're five people only at UCL, so there's many other peoples also involved so be around this. The project leader Chris started to implement the materials Phyllis, our technology Wizard who's doing all the all the mysterious things in the background to make the webpage run an ad in is our administrator and I'm basically therefore developing this further and making it.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Sustainable. We have we have had some Guinea pics in yeah from the London DTP students or doctoral students from London University. So that's Kings College and UCL and others and we currently have on the board. We have 400 training so that's doctoral level upwards. It's all postgraduate researcher training actually, but we already dealing with 400 people on the program and our reservations for. April 2014 is already exceeding 200 people. We're just we're just being bombarded with people interested in and wanting to know and make reservations for this. And this is actually quite surprising given the fact that it's for free only for people who have real funding from this British research counter from the Bio Research Council. So there's actually sort of narrowing it down to a minority of people. And yet it seems to be the right thing to do in this moment.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
For these people, so the Research Council demanded that we take particular care of the doctoral students. So doctoral students they are currently in something called DTP. Can't really move the cursor here. Something called DTP up here. Is there a laser pointer? Does anybody know? OK now we don't need it. It's might be OK and so doctoral students are there from all major University. With one exception of our fiercest local enemy, everybody else is there. So basically we cover the UK. And. And that's nice, because that's already a nice community of people and I will come back to this Community form.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Later, as it stands, this program group goes in three steps, with consecutively being more complicated. So we have a basic skills course where there's mathematics computation and modeling that introductory that basically gives you a basic level of knowing what the function is, annoying how to write a piece of code and execute it, and so on. The advanced skills. The second module, then, is a serious biological modeling course where you do a large scale data analysis. You do a modeling, and modeling is. Specifically meant to mean mechanistic modeling, so as in theoretical physics where you know what the mechanisms are that drive a certain process, and then you implement this in an algorithm and then you execute the algorithm in order to verify that this mechanism is actually taking place, and you know that this is both quantitative and predictive, and that's what we think science nowadays should be, and then their supervised project is actually now already going into research projects where certain people are. Supported doing serious research that requires a computational biology atina.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Last level. So I'm not going to talk about this.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
I will try to quickly go to the web page if I have Internet connection. Just going to show how it works. So within the web page if you get access to the course, if you get accepted to the course, you find a Moodle environment. Right mood less one of the standard environments. People using blackboard but models for free, so we're using this and this also comes from the Open University and just upgraded to the most recent thing. So the Moodle environment basically trying to offer you an in an integrated way. All the materials and all the media and all the support that is being developed around this course. So you're probably all familiar with these kinds of things. There's a navigation bar on the left, and there's some tweets and news and event calendar on the right side and in the middle is where your materials are prepared, and I'm not going to go through all the details. I can't really demonstrate them here. But there is lecture slides as PDF's that you can either download or watch on the web. There's video materials for introduction or short tutorials that we are developing. There is what else guide as a guide how to work with the program or with the materials that are there. Frequently asked questions that we take from feedback from the previous scores from the students that we have summarized, the most urgent question because it inevitably comes back. How do I install my software? Why does my password not work and where is this directory and so on? So we're trying to collect those things rather than keeping all the questions and answers from the previous year. We condense them into an FA Q. And then there are other very useful things like forums. Forums, is where discussion goes on, where. Almost inevitably, you will have some problem along the way. We should learn some mathematics. So what do you do? What you can do is you can shoot out a question to everybody else and what we have at UCL is 8 paid tutors, 8 postgraduate students there from computer science and mathematics supporting you and they are told to be there actually anytime. So we even have somebody taking the evenings and weekends. So within a few hours it should actually have a response to your question. And if the numbers are as good as they are now, if there are 400 people on the course is actually also possible that other students will answer you, especially if it's a problem that somebody has already encountered. So this community gives an excellent support, and I thought I thought that's incredible when I first saw how it really works that you actually just push out a question. Then you will come up with a competent answer within a very short time. So actually gives you a good feeling that you are not lost and forlorn in white black universe, but there's actually good people there to help you, and they're willing to. Look into your problem. Sometimes it takes a little bit of back and forth. What's your code and how did you do it and what's the operating system. But in general it works quite well at the moment. And yeah, as I said, eight paid people, so there's actually a good good support, and they're not overwhelmed at the moment, although we have a large number on the course. And then before you before you continue your supposed to fill out a survey. That said, we collecting feedback, so before we're releasing your next set of materials, we asking you feedback. So it's very easy. People can say yes or no, but they can also give us more constructive feedback. 'cause as you can guess, we depend on knowing from their experience in order to further improve the course that is just recently built. I'll show you one thing apart from the videos that we are producing now. We also have Java applets and that we are going to try to use more these features that we can actually build models and code into the web page so you don't even have to download them. So here's a simple example. So that's the biology of plus meet a set of genes that's incorporated into a microorganism. I think a bacterium here from a recently published paper. Where there is a certain gene expression regulation pattern that's been artificially designed, and that's supposed to give some output, and the paper comes with a mathematical description of this regulation process. So feedback loop and it was published because it was shown that the gene expression regulation can oscillate. So you can have some proteins being expressed and then being suppressed again, and that there's a temporal pattern of expression which means also functional change. In the in the in the microorganism. And so this program. This model of the process is already implemented on this web page and you can just interactively use it and see under which conditions under which control conditions will this oscillatory expression pattern actually happen. And when it will not happen, and then you have all the interactivity that you can zoom in and out of the scales and so on so you can manipulate all this so other interactive and we're trying to develop this more, especially to get people play with the mathematical concepts of functions of multivariable systems, where many things interact with each other and control properties and especially the beginners. Those that haven't had who haven't had mathematics in the last four five years at all. Find it much easier to play with a toy before they actually go into serious equations and eigenvalues and all sorts of things. Right, OK we have.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
This is for self assessment. I should mention this quickly. Becausw you are at home and of course you can cheat. You can do anything you want with the material. Still you are being you're being offered quizzes for self testing and it looks like this so you have had some introduction to graph theory. You're given a question and then you the answers of course not. Then initially you don't see this. You put your answer in there and once the quiz is finished you can also have a feedback in terms of some explanatory notes that come up. After you done the quiz so you can see how you've been done and you get your scoring.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And I mentioned the four hour. That's what it.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Questions on I mentioned the upload so it can just.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Skip all this.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
One thing that's maybe notable is that you have exercises throughout the material. You're constantly testing yourself and what you have just learned, and these come with no solutions in the downloadable material, but you can actually click the solutions on the web on the web page so.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
You can also check here in this in this web material you can expand the solutions if you click on a certain thing and if you are asked to do a certain mathematical code you can then see what is the right answer. How do you need to put this thing into place to get the right output? So I'm not going to demonstrate this, but this is a then some data that you can get from the literature. In this case on ovarian cancer.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And. We are now back.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Right, so I skip the content. You might not be so interested in the biological content. Maybe I go over this.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Quickly the training approach, as you might have guessed, biologist does not have time to do a full course in, say, linear algebra or differential equations also, and so we can't teach the mathematics. What we do is we take a biological example and by means of this example, sort of through the back door. We then tell them will actually actually in order to solve this example this biological example, you need to have some mathematics, and this is the mathematics needed to apply this and now try it for yourself. Right, so we do it by example from the biological perspective, so I'm a biochemist originally, so for me it's rather easy to formulate this big cause we know what the clients need. We know they don't want to study mathematics. So I.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Also skip this sections we in.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Reduce everything by means of example, which is contrary to the old style teach.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Doing mathematics for biologists and we show them how practical that is, namely web tools that are frequently used by biologists like the NCBI web page, where you that you use for bioinformatics searches and for pattern pattern findings and sequence verifications, and we show them that. Actually yes, if you look into the options of this program, yes, they actually. The other concept like matrices and you can actually understand fairly quickly what this means. If you choose such thing in this complicated programs so you can do well informed searches and you are better able to understand its offer to you because you have had a thorough introduction into precisely this topic, not general mathematics, but into these topics.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
It come up. So the course then.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
I think I can go over this. We using Matlab, so everybody who is enrolled in the course gets a MATLAB license. There's particularly convenient software to do biology, and it's frequently applied in computational biology, so you do Matlab. You talk about now.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
It works, which is a very important concept both in biology and medicine.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
We do mechanistic modeling, namely, as I said before, modeling that implements mathematically implements no knowledge about mechanisms, biological mechanisms, not statistical modeling so much.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Can we do some statistics? Of course, before data analysis and for this we introduce you to learn are free soft.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Yeah, so that's basically what covers. And then if you work properly, this is what you get. You're doing networks, and you know how to manipulate.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Networks.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
You do reaction kinetics. You write codes and you interpret it in a biologic.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Way and you do the assessments and more recently we have also all the assignments that we do, so people do projects and they upload the projects but cause we can really mark them manually if we have 400 people. We do quizzes on the assignments, so questions the answer to which you only know if you have done the assignment correctly. So and then you can check the green would be the good ones and the red would be the bad ones you can check.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
How well you have scored and you can go back and do other things.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Module 2 then I'll skip over.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
This then more.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Complicated mathematical things like stochastic.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Model space.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Temporal models for image ingin.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
On all sorts of difficult things. And finally we advertise it to the students. We tell them you can do successful research if you use computational tools and this paper from my own group is not there because it's my group, but 'cause the first author. If I get this cursor somewhere, the first author is a medical Doctor Who I can assure you knew nothing of mathematics of computation by the day she started her PhD. Nothing and she got a first author paper in a respected Journal. That was submitted before she handed in the thesis, so I think this is remarkable and it shows it can be done. So of course you have some support desk with people to help you, but nevertheless you can do it. You can actually get very far with some training and she is in a dermatological PhD project, so it's all experimental, so she did it in addition. So we show people. Yes you can do it. In addition to this, if you learn these things and.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
You have to do is you need to know how to do a proper model and because the model has never been done before. In this case of human hair growth and it's a human thing, so she was.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Able to do it. Second advantage you can apply for funding an, for example, the Medical Research Council in this cryptic way using systems approaches actually asks people to do it across the medical boards. In the UK you are invited. Please put in some computational and mathematical component to your medical research and this is very recent. This is still valid and they give you extra points if you have some mathematical approaches to your medical research.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
So even have an advantage. And of course there's more and more jobs being in the market, so people actually find it easy if they can put this on their CV that there's additional plus. And that's something that makes you stand out.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
At least for the moment, maybe not in the long run, right? So one reason why I'm here that we're going to develop this further. Particularly, we think our videos and tutorials are primitive, they're just recordings like lecture recordings, but they're not searchable. You cannot navigate the videos, you don't know where to find what it's not connected to. The slides not connected to the transcript to the text actually of the process. So we would very much like to have a more advanced technology for our videos to make proper teaching materials. That you can search, navigate, and that you can use as the demand comes up. Then we want to incorporate life training sessions because we don't want to leave people alone, especially those who are not integrated within the University and for this purpose. Of course we need high quality streaming of audio and visual. Picture to have a more better experience and this is just going on at the moment and finally our big wish would be to have virtual data environments name we when we talk about biology and medicine we do talk big data I can tell you this is big data here and we would like to be able to navigate these data in virtual environments where people can actually point. People can actually communicate and filter data and represent them in different ways. And manipulate them in an interactive way, even though they're not sitting in the same laboratory. 'cause it happens so that the best specialist for certain question doesn't necessarily sit next door to you, but sometimes they are in China or in the United States, and you would still like to collaborate without them having to fly over say, every month or so. Because questions do come up frequently, so that would be basically our.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
I wish for the future and I'm happy to answer any questions, but let me conclude by saying that already in this moment I think we are changing the landscape of research training in the Biosciences using the Internet.
