Then I'm going to talk about how to incorporate contextual cues into a joint kernel map for object localization. Then I'll show how one can do branch and bound localization with this, typically getting localization speeds of 10s of milliseconds, and then I'll give some. Kernel is a little bit like having tunnel vision. We can do local context kernels where we have some parameter Phi or PSI Theta which is going to give us then a region Theta of Y. So putting it all together, we. So what does the local context kernel look like? The local context is indicated here by the shaded region, so inside the local context we have the actual bounding box. We've chosen this definition because we can model the statistics of an objects neighborhood, but we're not going to pollute those statistics with the statistics of the object itself. So if we want to do sliding windows, then exhaustive evaluation is going to be very expensive. If we want to really evaluate the window at every single possible location, but we don't have to because similar boxes are going to have similar scores. We can come up with a bound for that entire region and just discard that, because that's not going to have a very high. It's quite simple, given an upper bound for a an objective function over sets of rectangles. We put our set of rectangles as a state into a priority queue. So to do that, we need to specify sets of rectangles. So what we do is we bound the weighted sum of kernels. Remember we have a kernel for the restriction kernel. The local context in the global context we're going to bound that by the sum of bounds for each of these individual kernels. The global context kernel doesn't even depend on why, so it's going to be just a constant value for all possible bounding boxes. This is actually just standard interval arithmetic. We have Theta set to root 2 / 2. It's just something we chose kind of out of a hat we use VLC datasets, surf descriptors that were vector quantized to 3000 features Chi Square kernel for global context and then we use linear bag of word features. Context kernels are actually very helpful if they're learned appropriately. And by defining local context kernels relative to the bounding box, we can actually still have a very efficient solution because we don't have a very high dimensional parametrization of our branch and bound, we only need to still optimize over 4 variables. Issue of AJC that's coming out over well the deadline is going to be in February so please submit if you want. I think that it really probably doesn't make that big of a difference in terms of the actual statistics. By putting a bounding box around them. OK, so we can think of this left top right. And X is going to be our notation for images and will use math calcs and math Kelway to denote the space of images and the space of bounding boxes. This can be support vector machine, structured output regression, any sort of compatibility function that you want. So what is a joint kernel map? Well, first of all, let's say what we're going to assume about our compatibility function F. We're going to say that it's going to be linear with respect to some feature function. Now the feature function we can make that implicit in a joint kernel, so this is different from kernels that you might have been familiar with before, where you only take in an X and another ex. The restriction kernel we can define by taking X restricted to why that's what this notation X vertical bar Y means an. You can just think of that you take the image, you take the bounding box and you crop that image to the bounding box, and then we can use any standard image kernel. And the resulting joint kernel is going to be positive definite.