For example, you establish a non commercial entity in Slovenia. And then we can apply to Minister of Justice. It will be more flexible structure. Some of them were practiced, but some of them are not commonly practiced, so the law allows, for example to establish a union of legal entities in Azerbaijan, but members must establish a presence in Azerbaijan. It may be another constraint for user from the very beginning you have to be in Azerbaijan. It's opening a branch of Slovenian companies in Azerbajan. In this case, probably it will be the most efficient way why I'm saying this, because what we can do Tanya mentions that there are several companies already who are interested to come to Azerbaijan thanks to this kind support. Already about 17 professionals probably would be surprised to see amongst the categories of our team, not only lawyers, you will see also tax specialist, you will see a content. And you don't need to be awarded about those parts. Interesting for you would be our major practice areas. So what we do is mostly related to your business. It's mostly related to commercial law matters to business law matters. I heard that Slovenian companies has a competitive edge in construction sector, so you may really be interested in doing certain construction project without any worries. A UK like is a form of BP and Norway, and also we have start oil and other companies in Azerbaijan. Surely we were trying to expand our business within the hour, international markets or where Member of American Chamber of Commerce is a client. In that case we can offer you local subsidiary in the form of limited liability company. Now when I talk about Rep Office I talk about Branch LLC, but the good side that the process of registration is very similar. On average it takes 2 weeks, but we had the cases when we have done it in a five dates. You are not required to be in Azerbaijan. Whether your corporate documents will confirm with the local requirements will provide you templates you need just to fill out an you will issue a power of attorney to us and it will take about one or maximum two weeks to make your submission. State duties. If you're smaller medium size, it maybe even 50 euros or 100 euros. And we also have a union of legal entities in Azerbaijan, which is also possible. We also may think of opening a branch of a Slovenian company in Azerbaijan.