[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you very much Tonya Ann availing myself of this opportunity. I would like again thank you for excellent organization of our trip to Slovenia. Dear Mr Chairman and dear ambassador. Dear owner consul. Dear ladies and gentlemen, is good pleasure to attend this beautiful business conference that will provide you with more and more information about doing business in Azerbaijan. Of course it's always a challenge to speak last. It's a double challenge to speak before lunch, but lawyers always are remembered when there's a challenge is so myself and my colleague Latimer Village will try to make your challenge to start a business in Azerbaijan. List challenges, so that's why we're here today.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I would like to present myself I am from a quitter law firm and.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Just to make an efficient presentation, I decided to divide in St parts with a brief information about our team, then I'll talk about foreign companies in Azerbaijan and last but not the least will talk about business club registration because as Tanya rightly stress, we're expecting next year. Another high level delegation to Azerbaijan and so we have a great plan for next year which also related to establishing a business club.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Next, slide about aquita. We have been in the market about 15 years. An hour stuff is expanding. Already about 17 professionals probably would be surprised to see amongst the categories of our team, not only lawyers, you will see also tax specialist, you will see a content. Actually that was demand driven cause most of our clients coming to Azerbaijan as they would like to get a full package from us is not like only legal advice as they hear what nice laws we have but also they would like our support during the operation in Azerbaijan. And that requires also tech support that even require some accounting support. So what we do we can provide to foreign clients. Slovenian companies in Azerbaijan the full package so they can start their business minds their business, daily business and meeting labor audits, meeting tax auditors and other stuff can be done by our team in our offices. And you don't need to be awarded about those parts. Lately we have done a lot of work to get some ranking from international agencies. That was also important for us becausw. Lawyers are assessed by their work, but it's sometimes it's appreciated, so we got some rating from international agencies just to assure you that you are assisted by a professional specialist.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
You know? Interesting for you would be our major practice areas. I would like to mention that we don't specialize much. For example in criminal law areas or family law inheritance law. So what we do is mostly related to your business. It's mostly related to commercial law matters to business law matters. So once we provide you advice we can advise you on registration and their registration. Lately, Azerbaijan has certain new requirements regarding labor law and migration law, that's why we can assure you. It was a correct information and write support and we can take care of your contracts licensing. If you are going to settle in Azerbaijan where help you with the real estate matters, movable and immovable property. Most of you already has been to Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan, you know is closely related to energy sector, but what we see lately is there a lot of focus on non energy sector. That's why there are more and more project in transport sector engineering construction. I heard that Slovenian companies has a competitive edge in construction sector, so you may really be interested in doing certain construction project without any worries. Lately we have been expanding tourism, even advertisement and educational projects.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Klein, geography. Of course, when we talk about energy sector, first comes to the mind. A UK like is a form of BP and Norway, and also we have start oil and other companies in Azerbaijan. But I also tried to capture some geographies that will relate to Slovenia. I mean at least as a region and neighboring countries and we have been seen countries coming also for example from Italy from Croatia we have new clients also coming from the. Regions that is very close to you and why I'm saying this becausw they have the same worries. I mean of course it's a time when companies are reaching out for new markets and for them it may be serious region. It's a new market, it's a new territory, but I would like to assure you that so it's a different market, but the set of the rules are quite clear. Surely we were trying to expand our business within the hour, international markets or where Member of American Chamber of Commerce is a client. Also business club that you US companies operating in Azerbaijan several months ago. We establish also British Azure vision loss session. Italians are quite active lately in Azerbaijan so that experience also may look interesting for you and of course international bus station is like international organization. For lawyers next please.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
My good colleague Vladimir villages here and the reason for that since lately we have since the critical mass and critical interest from Slovenian companies to come to Azerbaijan. And of course we want to follow and support you during the whole process. From A-Z. I mean once you need some information you need some advice is so you will get it from Vladimir or from myself. Then we can help you with registration. We can help you with providing legal address in Azerbaijan. To set up your bank accounts, once you're set up, probably you would require to hire some local stuff or to bring your specialist expects. No problem will help you with getting the permits and getting residence pyramids. And of course, once you are operational. We will take care and keep your corporate documents so will do your submissions, reportings, notifications you shouldn't. In some cases we have a companies who performs their business in Azerbaijan as a fully outsourced their legal corporate issues to us so they don't hire, for example HR specialist. They don't hire accountants, tax specialist. All these services are outsourced to our company so they only mind particular technical part of their business in Azerbaijan. And the rest is a bureaucracy, an other part of paperwork is done by Equita in. In your case it will be done by Vladimir Village and by ourselves of course. You for example be operated operational in Azerbaijan for some. And you may think why should I open illegal presence in Azerbaijan and tomorrow I'm going to have a problem with some commitments and if I'm not doing some project and I need a break loose. Another reason are quite flexible, flexible in their terms that if you are not operational for several years you make freeze your activities by electronic submission you wouldn't have. Many commitments during your freezing. So once you gain you get another project. You again can activate your operation and we again take care of you so you can have quite flexible an adjusted legal regime. Next one.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
I would like to switch probably the parts that will be most interesting to you and I would like to talk about forms, how you can set up in Azerbaijan. Of course, when we talk about new markets, some of the companies they would think that there are small or medium size and for them they don't want to bear too much costs. They don't want to many of liability, so they may think of starting with a Rep office in Azerbaijan. Just one of the initial forms that the company may start business in Azerbaijan when establish a Rep office they can do most of the promotional activities of the head company. For example they can gather documents they may. Come to Azerbaijan, distribute information. Once you have that critical mass or for example you participated in selection for a tender, you can come up with the second stage. For example, establish a branch which will afford you to perform all of your commercial activities. And of course at some point if you see that. You get certain information about the market and you feel comfortable, but you feel that you require maybe a local partner and that local partner provides you a good favorable terms and you would like already establish a local personality. In that case we can offer you local subsidiary in the form of limited liability company. And registration all sorted for all these options will be Minister of Taxes which operates from 2008 as one stop shop, so you don't need to run too many agencies. The package will be gathered by us and it will be done by Minister of Taxes.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
I would like to provide some information about the. Procedure so process. Probably you a bit confused. Now when I talk about Rep Office I talk about Branch LLC, but the good side that the process of registration is very similar. So whichever option you select for your commercial activity center by John, you have to follow almost the same procedure. Of course it would depend on how long it would take to collect your documents in Slovenia, but once we have them eat quite a short. On average it takes 2 weeks, but we had the cases when we have done it in a five dates. Formal review period is about 3 five business days, but we need several days in order to translate to proofread your corporate documents. And of course, submissions are done in the local language, so we have to assure that your package is correct. The good news is that you don't. You are not required to be in Azerbaijan. I mean all of your registration process will be done by. Help of Latimer village and ourselves. Though we will provide you templates so you don't need also to worry about preparing. Whether your corporate documents will confirm with the local requirements will provide you templates you need just to fill out an you will issue a power of attorney to us and it will take about one or maximum two weeks to make your submission. State duties. Probably branches state beautiful branches a bit. Expensive comparative to local LLC is about 200 euros and local SSS minimal. It's eleven euros approximately and cost for translation. Nitrosation an mailing would be. It depends on the volume of your corporate documents. If you're big company, it may go up to 304 hundred euros. If you're smaller medium size, it maybe even 50 euros or 100 euros. Lately we had a lot of reforms concerning registration and there is no particular requirements concerning. For example, if you establish a local presence in Azerbaijan, the director or deputy must be a local person, so there is no strict requirement, so there's also no strict requirements concerning minimum capital. For example, you don't require to put the 10 thousands of euro on your bank account just to prove that you have financial stable. So in that regard is. Registration process is quite flexible. Is there only matters that your corporate documents in place an you are submitting them and will make sure that they are correctly submitted? Next week.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
OK, concerning what we're we're discussing. Also, since our arrival that mainly lately we are witnessing expanding of azerbajan Slovenian business activities. So I describe it a bit. Procedure hard to establish your legal presence in Azerbaijan what what can be done? Also in parallel we can establish a business club. Business club that would initiate the regular regular representation of a slave in interest in Azerbaijan. Of course, when we're talking about branch or Rep office, we're talking more or less about representation of a particular interest of one or two companies, but you were talking about business club and take into considerations that most of the Slovenian companies that plan come to Azerbaijan they may be over medium size or upper medium size, so it's better to have them. Under the same umbrella. So once we have them, we can gather together their needs. Maybe their challenges and we can voice those challenges in more coordinated manner, and particularly they may be also delivered through spirit or maybe through other agencies. That's why the business club would add value in parallel to the particular activities that is related to particular projects. When we talk about business Club, Good News that we have many options to follow. For example, we can open a. Public Association in Azerbaijan. We can also establish a club in Slovenia an established then rip office in Azerbaijan is our common options. First 2. And we also have a union of legal entities in Azerbaijan, which is also possible. We also may think of opening a branch of a Slovenian company in Azerbaijan. I would like to just describe each of these option a bit elaborated manner so you can have a better picture.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So when we talk about option one, we're talking about establishing a non commercial umbrella organization in Azerbaijan. It must go with Minister of Justice, which is different from Minister of Taxes in Azerbaijan. If you would like to establish a commercial entity, you do one stop shop with Minister of Taxes if you would like to go with non commercial entity you have to go with Minister of Justice. State duties are minimal. Costs are relatively similar to commercial entities. But since we are here who are friends of Azerbaijan Slovenian business circles? So I have to be Frank with you and to share constraints or challenges that you may face when you would do a public session in Azerbaijan as non commercial entity. Probably that it will have more rigid structure like you have to follow a statue to restructure. You will have stepped into the reporting like yearly, maybe monthly and timeline. So legally you have a Saturdays, but still the practice shows that you may be required to submit other extra paper. So that's why O public union is practiced, for example by US companies and Turkish companies. But still it maybe bring some challenges. So I would like to go to option 2.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
That is more flexible. For example, you establish a non commercial entity in Slovenia. And then we can apply to Minister of Justice. It takes several steps. An advantages of this. It will be more flexible structure. And of course it will be less paper becausw once we have a common entity in Slovenia, it only will take to collect the documents over one company that will be coming to Azerbaijan.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
With options three, if we look to options 3, next one. It's a union of legal entities. Probably it comes from the best practices that used abroad. I mean, you know the observation is a quite young Republic, an since our independence we try to bring a lot of good new laws. Some of them were practiced, but some of them are not commonly practiced, so the law allows, for example to establish a union of legal entities in Azerbaijan, but members must establish a presence in Azerbaijan. It may be another constraint for user from the very beginning you have to be in Azerbaijan. It's not common with practice and it may take several months. Why I'm bringing this up? Because it at least gives you another opportunity to consider because we at the very very, let's say beginning of this process that will take stages an hour options should be adjusted to the critical mass of a business activities. An expansion of the business cooperation. We can.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Go to the option four. It's opening a branch of Slovenian companies in Azerbajan. In this case, probably it will be the most efficient way why I'm saying this, because what we can do Tanya mentions that there are several companies already who are interested to come to Azerbaijan thanks to this kind support. We can establish a company in Slovenia and this companies can act as shareholders. It may be done as a commercial entity, as I heard you have also very easy registration process. So once you do it in Slovenia then very easily we can do opening a branch or rap office of the same commercial company in Azerbaijan. The good news, it will be done with Minister of Taxes through one stop Shop and another advantage would be that registration process who will require only several weeks. And the most important probably for you would be the flexible management. If you go within a commercial entities. Probably you have to go with a fixed data tree structure, but once you have a let's rip office or branch Office Lebanon Company Azerbaijan, you may have very flexible commercial one and you can use also for dual purposes. For example you can do as a promotion of your certain business information among the Slovenian companies as the same time. If you have a ready made project that serves your needs, that company may also act in that selection process. I would like to mention here that these are mainly the major framework, but this is very general information. I knew that to give from the very beginning very detailed information in May confuse an bring some awareness to you, so that's why I tried to layout on the main milestones regarding legal regime. But according to our program, we're going to have also detailed Visa V meetings an I'm here till Saturday, so I'm at your disposal. To discuss and you can reach me, you can reach me throughout also Vladimir Village and I would be happy also to address your inquiries an I'm all.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Providing as in last slide emails or Vladimir and myself and of course I would like to thank you for your time and attention. Thank you very much.
