For these, we propose some improvements to the basic needs neighbor approach to image retrieval. The first one is to try to get slightly more smoothed estimates of their property of relevance by including a moderating term. Basically, to take into account the absolute values of the of the distance. In our case, we include a factor, a term we call it moderating term. To wait in. We instead of of using a unique score, we use a different score for each different positive or relevant image we have. And then we retrieved images in turn from each one of these of these positive images. Yeah, showing Euclidean distances are all always used except for color histograms, where Mr. Misters intersection is considered. We performed 500 different random queries on each database and then we present the averaged position pair iteration. The average precision at a could of value of 50 is shown for each one of the databases. An image retrieval has been proposed. As we introduced and combined with a local search strategy to equally sample different zones of the feature space, the method is able to overcome some of the known because they were reported drawbacks of the original approach. And this approach could be further extended by learning, rather opting the smoothness level to local data that we are working on this now. So the promise to define what is to be searched for. Some form, then some form of user interaction is required to make the problem solver, or at least easier. There is this semantic space where abstract concepts are trying to be represented. This is what we are interested in, and then other concepts. So the kind of representations we have been using this work are very easy and general ones based on color. We used color histograms and two other databases and other kind of shape and textual descriptions. Well run feedback consists of using images that have been privileged judged by the user in the previous iterations. Interesting in the database. We talk about relevant images and non relevant images in the Declaration with regard to the query or the user desire. No criterion function is explicitly given, and in our approach only yes, no judgments are considered. There is a function or a probability of relevance on in the feature space space we are using. Well, the basic nearest neighbor approach to relevance feedback image retrieval. Is to use the ratio of the first relevant to UN relevant.