Well, they start to replace DPA with other bisphenols called BPA alternatives. With this reffered to be seen as that are structured very similar to BPA and have the potential to exact similar toxic effects while they are not actually studied as BPA and therefore their cycle in their environment is less well known. Our study of the Stability and fate of EPA and 17 BPA alternatives during water treatment can contribute and extend the missing knowledge of cycling of bisina in their environment. But for the start, as you probably know, aluminium alloys and aluminium swords are used for very alot of various applications which extend from construction materials to containers for food and beverages. Some of them are used for. So this is galago moholi. So and the next step. She will tell about physical activity, activity, nutrition and mood monitoring for health coaching. Fillets, nutrition, physical activity, and wound assessment. Nutrition monitoring system and 1st for nutri activity recognition and nutrition monitoring. Again, do some pretty amazing black magic using some traditional machine learning and some newer techniques as neural networks. So what our further work is to connect all of those monitors, activities and to see the relations between them. I would like to present my work done on meta learning for multi target regression. In recent years there is a huge expansion of the data mining tests and how does data mining test test looks like we have so so called problem instance for in the here in the current example we talk about measurement, predicting of systolic key, diastolic blood pressure. Multivariate regression problems in ecology, licenses, multimedia, prediction of electricity consumption and. This system, the system, will be able will surface and advisory system for multi target regression problems and it will. I hope that you like enjoy like me if we talk about we check the function of kinding receptors and cultures of glioblastoma and mesenchyme. And with them we separated proteins from human serum. We also tested these two different columns with low pressure low pressure column and high pressure. Test our method on real samples so we obtained 10 samples from lung cancer patients who were treated with carboplatin and cisplatin. Maybe it is going to be used as an catalyst in organic synthesis, or maybe even in the Pharmaceutical industry. After today I don't know, but I hope to find it out soon and. How do we evaluate or how do we quantify the this link quality estimation? Matrix differ between each other. The the impact of interpolation, as you know, for those who are doing machine learning techniques, it's very important which interpolation method do you use? Do you feel backward forward interpolation and so on? We are in my research. In 2017, we consumed 591 kilograms. So what is the novelty in our method is that we're using molecularly imprinted polymers. But our work is not yet done here, So what we want to do is actually develop, develop and optimize this analytical method for the environmental metrics is then test other sertraline residues, an integrated this material into wastewater treatment. Every day we make this kind of questions like what to eat, what to air, went to sleep, where to go for shopping, and what to buy. Index is a system that supports your decision making making process, but it does not replace you. And what are the Decision rules index so the decision rules is a function that Maps an observation to an appropriate interval of decisions and X decision models includes also decision rules. A decision complex decision rules looks like this. So it says like if Corp rises high and whatever the technical characteristics, the core is always unacceptable and X rule is an existing algorithm which tries to convert decision rules and it succeeds into more compact, complex decision rules. To characterize spirulina products we had together 46 spirulina commercial samples. They were of different geographical origin and we decided to analyze them for their fatty acid content. Up to now we have found out that our samples haven't had any equipment annoy cordoza hexanoic fatty acid. It means that it does not contain this final A, which is a highly used industrial chemical, many as a monomer in production of polycarbonate plastic, epoxy resins and thermal paper. They were added to a wide range of consumer products such as mattresses, televisions, computers, couches. Exposure to believe we are exposed to hippies through house dust, especially if you have some old furniture. So what did we do? But to get liquid magnet we need very high concentration of magnetic nanoparticles in a liquid crystal. So we can put as much nano particles in a liquid crystal that is possible. Thank you for your attention.