[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello everyone I am coming from the depart.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Meant of inorganic chemistry and technology and my work mainly focuses on the preparation of GNU Florence pieces with aluminium.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
But for the start, as you probably know, aluminium alloys and aluminium swords are used for very alot of various applications which extend from construction materials to containers for food and beverages. Some of them are used for. Water treatment while others are used in the production of glass and ceramics. There are also a lot of souls like aluminium chloride or aluminium fluorides which are really good Lewis acid catalysts and for their catalytic properties are used in the chemical industry and in organic synthesis. But now the question is wouldn't it be interesting to have an even better catalyzed that has the same structure or a similar structure of I don't know. Minion fluoride.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Well. For that we have to start at the beginning. Well, aluminium is one of the most abundant elements in the earths crust and it forms more than 270 million dollars. And some of them contain both aluminum and fluoride. Which are usually assembled assembled in a way to form ionic crystal structures and in nature a lot of these floor aluminates pieces contain an octahedral coordinated unit that is then assembled in. Various polymeric 3D structures, as it is shown up on the picture, but there are just a few species known or I don't know, just. Not that much that contained districts, discrete structures well, but now it would be interesting to have a new species that that is not coordinated with six foreign atoms but only with four and one that is not. That does not form a 3D structure, but it it can be found in a discrete structure, because such species would have better catalytic activities because. It would allow an easier access of the reactants to the catalytic metal center well during.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Our work we actually managed to prepare a species like that. We prepared a tetrachord, dettra, heavily coordinated floor aluminate, an eye on that was associated with an bulky cation, and the use of this sterically demanding cation was especially important for the synthesis since it promoted the tetrahedral recording tetrahedral coordination.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
But with that at the end, to conclude I would like to say that we still don't know what this new species is going to be used for. Maybe it is going to be used as an catalyst in organic synthesis, or maybe even in the Pharmaceutical industry. After today I don't know, but I hope to find it out soon and. Thank you for your attention.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Now I'd like to present our new the next speaker on a couch is who is going to talk about what is BPA level not telling you. OK, thank you for introduction. Le

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Think about our daily life. We go to work usually with car. We work on computers, we take pills, we drink, we eat and we go shopping. In the end of the day we end up with a big trash bag full of plastic. The result is.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
8 million tons of plastic each year in the ocean. This plastic mountain is then spread into micro micro plastic particles due to which contaminants of emerging concern are introduced in their environment. With this we refered to any kind of chemical that had not been previously discovered or were present only at insignificant level.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
I'm sure you have already seen BPA free label, but have you ever asked yourself what does it mean? It means that it does not contain this final A, which is a highly used industrial chemical, many as a monomer in production of polycarbonate plastic, epoxy resins and thermal paper. But since it was classified as hormone disruptive compound and connected with cancer and diabetes and European Commission started to monitor its usage and even bandit from production of baby bottles. And how do you think that the industry responds to that kind of limitation?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Well, they start to replace DPA with other bisphenols called BPA alternatives. With this reffered to be seen as that are structured very similar to BPA and have the potential to exact similar toxic effects while they are not actually studied as BPA and therefore their cycle in their environment is less well known. Now we can ask.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Ourself, BPA free product is really safer or less risky or is just another example of regrettable substitution. Our study of the Stability and fate of EPA and 17 BPA alternatives during water treatment can contribute and extend the missing knowledge of cycling of bisina in their environment. One of our goal was to investigate how can be seen or be removed from their environment. For this reason, we took wastewater treatment plants as a template and simulate them on a laboratory scale. Since they're efficiently removing plenty of carbon compounds from the environment. Therefore we performed to different treatment. Biological treatment in two different types of bioreactors and photochemical treatments were between us were exposed to monochromatic UV light.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
We saw that business can be removed from the front, can be removed and that there is a difference in the removal efficiency when different treatment is performed and also for different BC on. But if you want to see more of our study and result, please have a look at poster #46. Viking, the last.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
For your Yaroslavl, be keen to present his work. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, I'm going to say few words how to bring someone existing so someone existing compounds or to develop some extraordinary solutions by our developed approach.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
My idea is that if you are using some methods which are going to solve any problems. You have to be sure that. Or at least it's really ideal situation that you can treat many different really wide acute issues. For example, for example, how we're going to treat new diseases if you have lack of development in new antibiotics, or how we're going to eliminate really toxic compounds which are in the small level where conventional methods of cleaning cannot work, or the same as the same as this topic, we don't want to use any kind of Gmail or to be limited as we can to bring it to the market here.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And here is idea, we propose that we can use microorganism with modified surface. It means that we are using and engine.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Ring. So how does it work? It's well known that the nature or any kind of surface is in particles, usually negatively charged. It means that you can use as a Lego brick, just one by one alter, think, polished right layers plus minus plus miles team. You deposit desirable coaching with a really really provide and specific properties. So from this perspective bacterial cells are also particles. Here negatively charged and it can be also used that we can cover them somehow with this product lines. But there are life. What is going to happen with them? Idea?

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Is that we are using kind of dog team to externally control cells and this this control allowed to to reach many many desirable parameters so.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Of course it is important question are there like after this harsh coating? Yes, by the confocal techniques we already proved that bacteria cells with some small amount deposited polymers are alive and can grow out of this capsule. So its meaning that it's just making kind of mechanical restriction. And of course some more very important applications is already has to be have to be shown that we can use magnetite nanoparticles deposited on bacteria and somehow randomly combined absolutely different microorganisms. Which will bring new metabolic pathways or new products as well as this we have kind of unique approach to get without involving of gene modified Organism to get high expression of proteins. Actually these cells are three or five times bigger than the other control cells and they can. They have kind of tremendous potential for biotechnology.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So of course I would like to show some more implications which are working now. It is how to use alive bacterial cells to use them directly to deliver is an instrument against you Maria or we can we can protect different bacterial cells in biotechnology or to work against bio corrosion which are really big challenges nowadays. And of course which will prevent contaminants. Which will prevent absorption of other bacteria. And of course we can say few words about wastewater treatment. They can make very specific compounds very smaller, since bacteria are very unique organisms which can which can fight with this. So thank you for your attention please.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So if you have any questions, number 40 slide so.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Hello I will first start with a little bit motivation.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So this is a very interesting animal I found during research overview. So this is galago moholi. He's a primate that lives in Southern Africa, and he's also called mohol bushbaby very funny name, so he's very special because, although he's like 15 centimeters tall like Dicks this big, he can jump over 2 meters from extent. Still positions position. For example, the human can only jump like he can't really jump below. Above his own size. So imagine the whole bushbaby jumps 15 times his own size, so and he's a primate, so his body structure is quite similar to ours, although smaller. So I have.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So video what's going on? Now I see it on the TV. OK, sorry for the delay. So yeah, if you look at him he jumps like like a spring. So and this is actually.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
His secret, so he uses his muscles and tendons. He standards are are actually elastic and in that elastic can store elastic energy. So this is how his he jumps higher and the idea is to use this knowledge to build a motor. This is what I'm working on, and above is my prototype. So basically we take a classical motor at a spring in between and we have a motor that is able to function similarly to the. Mehall Bush babies muscles so.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And what do we do with this? We can build it inside an exo skeleton. So yeah, I'm lifting weights, but this is not really that amazing because I actually programmed what kind of weight I have in my hand. So and I can then help. But now the challenge is how to find the weight of how do you determine how to help so the exoskeletons is actually it's stupid. It doesn't know what the human is doing, and the challenge now is to find a way to predict when to help. So and the next step. In my. PH D is to find the control algorithm that will be able to help a human move his elbow. So thank you. So if you want to know more, please visit the poster #28. Thank you.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And would like to call the next speaker Nina. She will tell about physical activity, activity, nutrition and mood monitoring for health coaching. Hi, my name is Nina I will present. Work research work. We will be. We have been working on with my colleague. Mike was also present here recently and it's about physical activity, nutrition and mood monitoring. As it says on the slide.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So first with the. What we would like to do is to develop a recommendation system or a virtual coach or health coach system that. Would provide user with. Information how to. Better. Leave his love life so to have this two to get this recommendation recommendations, there are some crucial monitoring being needed and we can I think all agree that we have. Mental health and physical health. So to monitor each of these. Fillets, nutrition, physical activity, and wound assessment. Of course, one thing that could be used in self monitoring, but it has been shown that were people are very likely to lie when it comes to nutrition, because you always like to say you. Written a little less or with physical activity, of course. I'm physically active while working out everyday or with mood. It's always yes, I'm fine. So I think we can agree on this.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
We developed. Nutrition monitoring system and 1st for nutri activity recognition and nutrition monitoring. We choose this variable sensors and when we went with the variable sensors, we went with those that you can wear every day and don't get bothered by them. So we went with the wristband and with the cell phone which everybody has but there. So we got the. Measurements from different sensors do did some black magic with the machine learning. I think the people that are familiar with machine learning would get bored if I will explain that and the other half of the room would probably say what. So let's just call it black magic and we classify it few few activities that are mentioned up there and with the. This wrist worn device. We got a quite good result of the 78%. So yes.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
The second thing is to assess mood and for this we used a raw signal so we didn't when we recorded when we wanted to get the emotion or the most out of the user, we don't use actually the what he says, but the way he says it. So we only process the raw signal. Again, do some pretty amazing black magic using some traditional machine learning and some newer techniques as neural networks. And got quite good classification results as well.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So what our further work is to connect all of those monitors, activities and to see the relations between them. So for everybody who's interested in. More specific information about black magic, please find us at poster #6 between 8 between 5:00 and 7:00. So yes, this is more or less it. Thank you for for your.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Mention. And I would like to present next speaker who is yes mean bogati noeske who will talk about his research on meter learning for multi target regression. Hi. I would like to present my work done on meta learning for multi target regression. Problems with learning. Can multi target regression problems are two relatively interesting, relatively new area in the world of machine learning. Meta learning means that it's learning to learn what does that mean? That that means that we have different problems and we try to make an. Together the the common experience among all of the problems, and then when a new problem later is introduced, we use that learned knowledge and adapt to our specific problem. And multivariate regression is just another area of machine learning that deals with the. Simultaneously predicting, predicting multiple targets.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Uh. In recent years there is a huge expansion of the data mining tests and how does data mining test test looks like we have so so called problem instance for in the here in the current example we talk about measurement, predicting of systolic key, diastolic blood pressure. So we have so-called feature vector, the one that is labeled with. It is covered with bull and the target we are interested in predicting, so the features are basically some attributes that describes our problem instance and the most the most work that is done so far is treating this problem separately, but it's showing that if we trying to simultaneously predict this two targets, then we're not. I only able to have better performance, but we also induce more interpretable. Both. And this is also where is important for when we want to discover some new knowledge from databases. And there is a lot of application of there's dozens of application of this code. Multivariate regression problems in ecology, licenses, multimedia, prediction of electricity consumption and. How many more so?

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Think about the mining program, goes through all of these spaces. Feature selection. We have some first some data. Then we select the data, make the preprocessing and transformation. Then there are some algorithms and at the end induce some knowledge which later if we are satisfied with this, that's OK. We report that knowledge. If not, we can back in each of them the steps and repair them. Our goal is labeled here with this Gray Gray box, and the idea is to for a given problem at hand, we recommend what is the best multi target algorithm to be used in order to solve the problem. So what are the big?

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Tickets of this. This system, the system, will be able will surface and advisory system for multi target regression problems and it will. It will drink to faster, deeper develop the deployment of this knowledge discovery from databases because this is a very tedious work and repeatable for all problems and then we will help the other. The other people that are not that you don't need to be such an expert in machine learning in order to choose a good model. And of course it will serve to the experienced users in order to boost the. They are though to boost the performance of the models they produce. Here.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Briefly show some results. How we target this problem. We have a different problems that are described in so-called meta feature space and we have an algorithm that are treated better. OK, so and we induce some model and this model. For more details how this work and how this function, please find me on the poster 9 an I will be I will. I will provide you further information. How does this look.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Figure.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Now I would like to. The invite the next speaker, speaker, Mona Oliviera. Thank you. So thank you for introduction. I am great student from Brazil in Sylvania, and I'm going to present to you the most important part of my results from PT. I hope that you like enjoy like me if we talk about we check the function of kinding receptors and cultures of glioblastoma and mesenchyme. Stem cell. So I made these cells that everybody. I think heaven here this is for memetic the tumor micro environment. I don't know if you know about the tumor. Somebody here work with the tumor cells. The tumors really complex. The micro environments really complex when they are more infiltration of immunological cells. Amazing comes then cells. They're more malignant. They do more network and more connections between them, and it's more more difficult to treat this concert when they are like that. So exploring this with the kindly receptors as the good.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
Targets for that and then about kind of receptors. They're expressing your body. All cells having this kind of receptors.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
There are two subtypes kinding B2 that expressing in good conditions and physiological conditions, and can it be one that's expressing pathological conditions and concert inflammation as well, and chronic inflammation so they're involving Asian Self Liberty Federation invasion and migration. If we discover that they are involved in this cell cell interaction so.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
I'm going to show you hear some parts of results that was published. We find first in your model that we have a one cell that high expressions can be won an order that low expression 10 times less kind in B1 and when we put together with mesenchyme stem cells they increase expression of this receptor and also when we treat with ligands that Brad kind the increasing even more so after that.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
We check and this house that that high expressions can be one. They fuse with each other. Also stained VZ equals bigger vesicles and at least sometimes happens and kind of canibalism once how each others. But they sell that low expression just doesn't happen. Also when we treat with antagonist for this receptor, this Fusion the cells are interactions reduce so we check the cells half that this. Advance of Fusion, we find that they are acquiring as incomes, then markers like CD 29619, City 105 refer example. This CD 105 it's expressed in 5% of sales before in monoculture, when we put together after Fusion, physical transparent itself have interaction, they start to express eight 8% of the cells and when we thought and then we have a 762% of cell expressing this marker. That they really changed.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
And this is 1 picture to show how they change of culture and they really change even more when we tweet with agonist bradykinin. As you can see here, the nanotube formation is really strong market by affecting and this is really help the cancer cells to be residentially to. To sorry for. Kimi resident

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
OK, so if you want to know more about the top key on my poster please. Thank you so much for your attention and I have also the video for watching the time lapse in their physical transfer that I talk about. Right now.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Katarina Mahopac machkovich. Thank you for this introduction. Hello everyone, my name is Katrina Mark Rich. As all of you probably already know.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Answer represents the 2nd. Most frequent cause of death in Europe, so there is a wide interest in studying pharmacokinetics of Kim Statics in Sarum and its distribution in human serum. So within our method we wanted to. We wanted to optimize the using of platinum chemotherapeutics by using high pressure high performance liquid chromatography coupled to I see PMS.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
We also for this analysis needed the control liquid chromatography analytic columns. And with them we separated proteins from human serum. From unbound platinum. We also tested these two different columns with low pressure low pressure column and high pressure. So we decided to use in our further research low pressure column and if you want to find out more why you should visit my poster #33. He also. We, during our analysis we monitored signal of platinum by measuring it on. I see PMS and simultaneously measured proteins by UV detector. Combined these two results into one graph. We can precisely say on which protein platinum is bounded to an end to quantify it.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
We also wanted to. Test our method on real samples so we obtained 10 samples from lung cancer patients who were treated with carboplatin and cisplatin. And we determined that the platinum was mostly bound to albumin. Yes, at the end I would like to say that the our further research would be that we will try to apply this developed method on other metal based chemotherapeutics and I would like to thank to Institute of from College in Indiana who provided us this very valuable samples of real conservation.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Thank you for your attention and I would like.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
I would like to invite Gregor, Sir to present skis. Hello everyone, my name is Gregor. And I would like to show you my work in progress. Impact of feature selection on the performance of link quality estimation, but first what?

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Is link quality estimation? This is if we want to estimate to see in the future to predict in the future how well will individual violence link perform. But if it can transmit data successfully.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
OK, how so? How do we evaluate or how do we quantify the this link quality estimation? If a calf cell phone with wireless connectivity, if you have laptop, they usually collect harder matrix Qi SSI and so on signal to noise ratio and so on there for. The enhancement of these are software metrics such as packet reception, radio and so on. Then you have more advanced procedures such as score metrics with various algorithms, machine learning techniques and so on. Matrix differ between each other. From what they consider, if they consider only receiver, transmitter or they could consider both of them, and if they collect information passively, actively are in hybrid way.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
OK, well on chart this is one of the data sets. It's called hookers data set from Rude Girl to Institute and each individual dot is individual link. So aside Valium how radio? Which wich value radio? Sense to me and package reception at how the individual link is good. To toward the others. So on the top we have good quality, but I'm not interested in those one. This is 100% success rate on the bottom are packets which I also I'm not interested in because we cannot help with very bad links. So I'm with my research. I'm interested in those in the middle if we can help if we can enhance. The successful transmission. OK, but I'm also not interested in all the links together because does this wouldn't make any sense if we.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Individual link those Gray stripes or what you see those are missing missing packets. So each individual black dot is successfully received packet and all the other packets are lost packets. So what I'm trying to say.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
Is which window size to choose? How many data to fill with machine learning procedure to get optimal result? The the impact of interpolation, as you know, for those who are doing machine learning techniques, it's very important which interpolation method do you use? Do you feel random noise? Do you feel backward forward interpolation and so on? And I'm researching how do they affect the quality of prediction? We are in my research. I'm using mean value and standard deviation and polynomial features as well as quantile features. Each of them has their pros and cons. So I'm also doing. And on the final stage regression classification, how good can we predict the quality of the link? Is it good or bad or intermediate and predicting? Concrete value thank.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
If you want to see here, we hear more. 20

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
OK hello everybody, I'm the funeral today. I'm going to talk about Radon as an indicator of air pollution.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
So in this study, we focus to find out when we should try not to breathe heavily, and when we can breathe heavily during the time that we are exposed in outside air and all of this because of air pollution. When we talk about air pollution, we should think for such a days.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Buttons are coming into the air from many different sources, like natural and artificial but mainly artificial as industries and traffic. And they are really dangerous for our health can. Can cause a lot of diseases like lung and heart disease and even the cancer politicians in the air are variating temporally from season to season from days today's even from hours 2 hours. They can be concentrated less than 50 meters above the ground, which is really bad for our health or they can be diluted up to two kilometers which is there more safer or health?

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
So it is really important to classify or atmosphere in some classes in in order to know how risky is outside air. There are of course many methods which are still in use to classify the atmosphere, but they are based on a lot of parameters and it means that it is really complex to calculate. It's expensive because needs a lot of sophisticated instrument, they are labor intensive at the most important they underestimate pollution.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
So what now? We need a tool that is constantly coming into the air. It is not reacting with politicians. It's not washed out from the air. It should be easy and not expensive to measure. And the most important it should good response to the extended pollution and then we can create or method.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
And yes, we found that it's Radel, uh, so based on radon, we created a new method, which is a robust needs one parameter. It's not expensive, it's not complex to calculate. So radon is really an excellent tool, and.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
Here I show it to our results. So we tested our new method in nanoparticles are politicians and more strongly stable? Is the atmosphere or air. It's really polluted. But when the atmospheres goes to near neutral and unstable, it's less polluted. But it not always in the clear there's days or sunny days, it's safer or health because it depends from the topography, such as such as soluble an amazing and. Can be polluted. So for more please visit my poster #17.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
The next speaker is Joshua Gornick. Thank you for the introduction. So I will talk about men made anti bodies in environmental analysis.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
And as I come from the Department of Environmental Sciences, we really like to talk about compounds that are present in the environment and that we really do not want there. And because they are causing harm.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
So we chose one of those, it's called sertraline, and it's an antidepressant, and we're not really surprised that it's present in the environment, since only in Slovenia. In 2017, we consumed 591 kilograms. We can find it in surface waters, wastewaters, sediments, an other compartments and most importantly in aquatic organisms where is already causing harm.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
So the other problem that we have with this compound is also that it transforms in the environment either from Photodegradation because of solar irradiation because of microbes that are present in the environment or because of wastewater treatment. When the two compounds we see on the left and on the right from the parent compound Arleta compounds, we also identified as the transformation products.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
What we want to do is analyze analysts is actually developing analytical method that will allow us to determine and quantify this compounds in the in the environment. So what is the novelty in our method is that we're using molecularly imprinted polymers. These are polymers that form specific interactions with the compound that we add during polymerization. In our case, it's the sertraline. By carefully choosing the ingredients an, adding it during polymerization, we get this specific interaction, which then means that we have higher selectivity, less metrics effect an it can actually be reused because it has a higher stability than actually using antibodies.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
So my results up till now show that we've successfully imprinted the material, would search online and it also shows that one of the molecular imprinted polymers we produced. Can also be used for the two analogs I was talking about at the beginning.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
But our work is not yet done here, So what we want to do is actually develop, develop and optimize this analytical method for the environmental metrics is then test other sertraline residues, an integrated this material into wastewater treatment. So for the removal of this compounds in the environment and maybe even make some other molecular imprinted polymers for other components. So thank you for your attention, and if you have more questions you can find me at poster number 10.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
And I would like to present the next speaker Adam Kikai, and he will present. Presentation about complex Decision rules index. Thank you. Hello everybody.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
It seems like all of you are using computers here, so this is focused on something that we try to avoid. This kind of expression from the users who are using different algorithms to do their jobs, even to check for tomorrow, and I will present the decks so.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
Who is dex? Every day we make this kind of questions like what to eat, what to air, went to sleep, where to go for shopping, and what to buy. Index is a system that supports your decision making making process, but it does not replace you.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
And what are the Decision rules index so the decision rules is a function that Maps an observation to an appropriate interval of decisions and X decision models includes also decision rules. When you created a Dex model, you have a decision model which helps you to support your decision process, and in this case a decision rules looks like it's in the table, and it looks like if the car prices high and technical characteristics are bad, then the car is unacceptable. So it supports you to evaluate the specific. For many of the.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
Asian rules, they create the decision tables, so this decision table is pretty hard to understand and this is quite good examples, but there can be more than thousand of these kinds of decision rules in a decision table so.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
X has implemented the dextral algorithm, which it tries to melt alot of decision rules and to create complex decision rules. A decision complex decision rules looks like this. So it says like if Corp rises high and whatever the technical characteristics, the core is always unacceptable and X rule is an existing algorithm which tries to convert decision rules and it succeeds into more compact, complex decision rules. But the problems is inefficient and we have the kind of expression that I show in the beginning. So now we.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
It came with a novel algorithm which is known as J rule and it is much more efficient and it usually produces more compact, complex decision rules.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
And here are the results. In running time. We were really happy to in one of the decks models to evaluate to create the complex decision rules from approximately 21 minutes to 0.3 seconds and it creates from around 2000 decision rules into 64 more complex decision rule for everybody who is interested to know how this algorithm works. You can find more in my poster number 36. Thank you.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
And the next speaker is Yasmina Muston enjoy. Hello, my name is Nina Mast and I will be presenting characterization of spirulina LG as a new alternative food source.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
To characterize spirulina products we had together 46 spirulina commercial samples. They were of different geographical origin and we decided to analyze them for their fatty acid content. Also isotope ratio of hydrogen and oxygen and also elemental composition.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
Yeah. So spirulina is stated to be by the literature. Good source of omega-3 fatty acids, including equipment. I know it can cause a hexanoic fatty acid and it is supposed to have optimal Omega 6 to omega-3 fatty acid ratio of two to one. However, our results are a little bit different. Up to now we have found out that our samples haven't had any equipment annoy cordoza hexanoic fatty acid. And also that the fatty acid ratio formula 60 Omega-3 wasn't that much optimal as only trace amounts of omega-3 fatty acids have been found. However, on this chromatogram we can see that it is a really good source of palmitic acid, linoleic acid, and also gamma linolenic acid.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
Next, with it, principal components analysis of our results of elements of element analysis and isotope ratio. And here we can see.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
Grouping of samples from Hawaii.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
And samples from Thailand, how?

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
Other samples from Italy are quite far apart, from which we could assume that this this samples are.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
It actually produced in the same area. On the other hand, the samples from China are quite close together, so from here we can presume that elemental composition and isotopic ratio can really point to their geographical origin Furthermore.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
Our elemental composition analysis showed that spirulina is actually a really good. Source of iron, which is very positive, but on the other hand it also contains a lot of cadmium which poses certain safety threat to consumers. So there are going to be more. Research is done on this field and if you wish to know.

[2523.0s - 2552.0s]
More about the results and of course how it's actually even possible to eat algi. Please come to the poster 47.

[2552.0s - 2581.0s]
So the next presenter is Matthias Bergant. He's going to be presenting PVD PVD's inhuman. OK, thank you.

[2581.0s - 2610.0s]
OK So what are PPDS? Maybe these are organic degradable organic pollutants that were used as flame retardants for several decades. They were added to a wide range of consumer products such as mattresses, televisions, computers, couches. They are basically found everywhere in water, soil and air all over the world. They are known to accumulate in living organisms and biomagnify through the food chain.

[2610.0s - 2639.0s]
They they are known in the crime disruptors, meaning they can mimic or block the hormones produced in the body. How so they have negative effects on thyroid systems, reproductive systems, and nervous systems?

[2639.0s - 2668.0s]
Exposure to believe we are exposed to hippies through house dust, especially if you have some old furniture. Or drive an older car. We can be also exposed to food, especially fatty foods like cheese, butter and fish. Of children are more exposed than adults because they ingest mothers milk, which is also can be quite high in PPDS. European population is less exposed than USUS population. So.

[2668.0s - 2697.0s]
Because PPDS are toxic and we need to evaluate the quantity in human population. We need to analytical procedures, procedures that will do that. So what did we do? We develop a similar analytical procedure, then existing ones. Our method for determination of PPDS in human serum requires only one milliliter of sample and requires significantly less amount of organic solvents. We we also validated the method with the use of standard reference materials which confirm that our method is accurate, reproducible and sensitive. We also analyzed the fuel human samples from Slovenia and with which we demonstrated that our method is capable of. To be used in a future by monitoring projects. So thank you for attention.

[2697.0s - 2726.0s]
You can live with me as poster #16.

[2726.0s - 2755.0s]
And I would like to invite Patricia Heberer who will present her work, untitled surface functionalization of barium hit separate nanoplates with problem, it's organic molecules. Thank you for the introduction. Can you imagine having liquid magnet? We could put it everywhere because it would be liquid and as we know liquid take the shape of a container. My name is Patricia Rebar and I'm working at Jozef Stefan Institute at the Department of Complex matter.

[2755.0s - 2784.0s]
We all know magnets. We had them on our fridge. We used to play with them when we were children. We also have them in our electronic devices and we also all know LCD's liquid crystal displays. The main component in a liquid crystal display is liquid crystal, its properties, its optical properties change with electric field. If.

[2784.0s - 2813.0s]
We combine magnetic nanoparticles of a certain size and shape with a liquid crystal. We can get liquid magnet. But to get liquid magnet we need very high concentration of magnetic nanoparticles in a liquid crystal. My research work will be based on finding appropriate molecules to cover the surface of nanoparticle, and I will be working with magnetic nanoparticles, which were which will be barium Hicks, a ferret nanoparticles, and they have distinguished shape hexagonal shape and they are nanoplatelets. This more.

[2813.0s - 2842.0s]
Liqueurs. That will be bonded on the surface of magnetic nanoparticles will allow liquid crystal molecules which are here or the blue circles, circus, circus and they will allow them to penetrate slightly in between these molecules and allow nanoparticles to get very close together. So we can put as much nano particles in a liquid crystal that is possible. And with this increase the concentration. But in the same time we need to take into account the magnetic force that is present between magnetic nanoparticles. This is an attractive force that forces nano particles to stick together and we need to have nanoparticles apart enough that this magnetic force can be overcome.

[2842.0s - 2871.0s]
Thank you for your attention. This is all from my side. If you have any questions you can find me at poster poster number one and here is also my email address for those quarter shine. Thank you for that.
