I am sent full for possibility to visit Slovenia to organizers of this meeting and Slovenian host trying to diversify the presentations from our Academy of Science. Are indie programs perspective by technologists and then on the beginning of this decade the state Advisory Biotechnology Council was created and the Cabinet of Ministers but unfortunately was closed few years ago by by previous. Cabinet of Ministers and six years ago the new state. Priority for by technology very established or approved by Parliament where Professor Yaskiewicz was a first Deputy Minister of Education in Science and they were under operation until last year, so it will build. We are working with such plans is the back of potato, tomato, canola most important industrial plants for Ukrainian agriculture, and even such rare species like finger Millet made one from the main crops for countries of Sub Saharan region in Africa but with very huge potential. Another very interesting project which was completed on the air in the program was the development of a new selectable system for plant transformation based on marker gene on plant origin becausw antibiotic genes in the European Union for plant selection in vitro must be substituted by another selectable jeans. Becausw most of them were formed by scientists from National Academy of Science. And the second one, the program of plant biotechnology, and biosafety, traditionally the strongest one among different by technological programs. Becausw Ukraine is an agricultural, industrial and agricultural country. Development of matter of the masses of before preparated production of pharmaceutical human proteins in plant systems to two with usage of plant cells as a manufacturers for production of pharmaceutical proteins. Development of new marker system for selection of transgenic plants and producing transgenic plants. Colorata beetle potato potato through chloroplast transformation, not through genome transformation. The easiest task in Ukraine is to identify by technological products for medical purposes. As a rule such as those substances or drugs or kids were obtained by means of bacterial synthesis and plant cell lines producent of different biological active compounds and situation with introduction of genetically modified plants in Ukraine. Programs like sectoral sectoral R&D programs by technological programs in National Academy of Crime of Ukraine. Like Green revolution in genetic, genetic and cellular engineering as a basis for new green revolution and substituted by new programs and in another division genome functioning, we have a few RND programs by sensors which are involved in the solution with the problems of development of new bias, bias sensors and biofuels with topics devoted to usage of biotechnologies for. Institute of Microbiology and Virology and Institute of Biochemistry, Immuno chemistry and enzymes. About 175% of stuff and about 35. 40 members of staff staff continue to work abroad, but we keep the Contacts with them and develop different programs of potential joint interests and consist from departments involved in the development of genomics and biotechnology, genetic engineering and biophysical underwriting biology, which operates in the field of radiology plant radiology. In connection with Chernobyl disaster and small laboratory and fungal cell biology and by.