[0.0s - 29.0s]
Dear colleagues, I I'm very glad to be here and thank you. I am sent full for possibility to visit Slovenia to organizers of this meeting and Slovenian host trying to diversify the presentations from our Academy of Science. I slightly changed my presentation.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
They won't do the problems of development or by technology in Ukraine. We VE had and continue to have some special policy in relation to development or by technology and after dissipation of Soviet Union reviews. Development of transgenic plants, our state established Committee on Biosafety Nobia technology in 91 in 94, all former Soviet Union established programs where transformative test scientific. Are indie programs perspective by technologists and then on the beginning of this decade the state Advisory Biotechnology Council was created and the Cabinet of Ministers but unfortunately was closed few years ago by by previous. Cabinet of Ministers and six years ago the new state. Priority for by technology very established or approved by Parliament where Professor Yaskiewicz was a first Deputy Minister of Education in Science and they were under operation until last year, so it will build.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
It will be. Suit able to explain priorities of development of our by technology under the angle of you on those programs. Becausw most of them were formed by scientists from National Academy of Science. The first one was a program of my microbiological, or microbial by technologists, and devoted to main topics which we develop in Ukraine and mainly in Institute effective National Academy of Sciences and you know.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Our cities, the second one, was a program analytical engine by technologists concentrated on development of an analytical by technologies, mainly by sensors and the gene technologists interrelation of animal cells and humans.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And the second one, the program of plant biotechnology, and biosafety, traditionally the strongest one among different by technological programs. Becausw Ukraine is an agricultural, industrial and agricultural country. And naturally lot of different institutions under umbrella of National Academy of Science and Agricultural Academy of Science. Continue our continue to operate in the field of biotechnology plant by technology and agricultural biotechnology.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Here I just choose few most important. Projects developed under this program, like the development. Development of matter of the masses of before preparated production of pharmaceutical human proteins in plant systems to two with usage of plant cells as a manufacturers for production of pharmaceutical proteins. Development of new marker system for selection of transgenic plants and producing transgenic plants. Colorata beetle potato potato through chloroplast transformation, not through genome transformation. Or nuclear transformation and development. Molecular probes for foreign gene assessment into relation with creation and functioning on the on market transcend.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Once, but I would sector involvement in by technologies. Ukraine was very poor and continue to be poor. The easiest task in Ukraine is to identify by technological products for medical purposes. As a rule such as those substances or drugs or kids were obtained by means of bacterial synthesis and plant cell lines producent of different biological active compounds and situation with introduction of genetically modified plants in Ukraine. Very similar to situation in Europe. We didn't get moratorium on introduction of genetically modified plants, but about 10 years ago we started with field release or state testing of genetically modified crops. But then after few years this process was postponed and now we are there under the way of development and implementation of respective state regulation.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
In Ukraine. We have a special. Programs like sectoral sectoral R&D programs by technological programs in National Academy of Crime of Ukraine. I must say that our institutes in National Academy of Sciences, Biological Institutes are operating under umbrellas of two different branches or divisions. Division of General Biology and Division of Biochemistry, molecular biology and Physiology. And, respectively, each of these division have have. The. Phone programs. Like Green revolution in genetic, genetic and cellular engineering as a basis for new green revolution and substituted by new programs and in another division genome functioning, we have a few RND programs by sensors which are involved in the solution with the problems of development of new bias, bias sensors and biofuels with topics devoted to usage of biotechnologies for. The solution of the processes of fermentation for production of bias and all from cellulose and silos, and the usage by technologies to create powerful. Potential for production of biomass through creation of new plants with genetically modified technologists and in Ukrainian Academy for Cultural Sciences. Agriculture by Technologist program is under operation.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Under the angle of you most interesting institution in our Academy of Science. I must say about potential of five Institute and I'm sorry I forgot, forgot to remember or I didn't remember the one Institute more from View Institute of Biology of Cell which is very important Institute in the biology of East and in the development of the process of ethanol production with usage of by technology tools. So Institute of Cell biology and. Genetic engineering mostly plant molecular biology, genomics and genetic engineering. Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics with specialization of animal cell cells by technology and cloning, and gene therapy therapy. Institute of Microbiology and Virology and Institute of Biochemistry, Immuno chemistry and enzymes. Production of designs. Institute of by Organic Chemistry and oil chemist.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And some most attractive examples of activity of our Institute in the field of biotechnology. To give you a possibility about the high tech developments in our country in the field of plant biotechnology and genomics, our Institute is not so big. About 175% of stuff and about 35. 40 members of staff staff continue to work abroad, but we keep the Contacts with them and develop different programs of potential joint interests and consist from departments involved in the development of genomics and biotechnology, genetic engineering and biophysical underwriting biology, which operates in the field of radiology plant radiology. In connection with Chernobyl disaster and small laboratory and fungal cell biology and by.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Technology and some selected results in the transient genetics or transplants from it and creation of genetically model.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
White bloods? Transformation of plants. We are working with such plans is the back of potato, tomato, canola most important industrial plants for Ukrainian agriculture, and even such rare species like finger Millet made one from the main crops for countries of Sub Saharan region in Africa but with very huge potential. As a second breath or the first bread for those countries and.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Another part of world. During last year the such. Transgenic lines of different industrial crops or crops were created in our Institute. Very interesting development. Obtained the technology.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
The of obtainment of cyber when when you will fuse two different cells you can transfer nuclear genes nuclear nuclear engines from one plant to another plans but it possible to inactivate nuclear, nuclear and to try to make a transfer of chloroplasts or mitochondria. Which processor possibility too. Uh, do to produce different different proteins because they they they have their own genomes or plus terms and mitochondria one and by in activating the nuclear it's possible to transfer only information from chloroplasts from one species species to another species.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And on the next stage we were able to develop the technology of the transfer of genes to chloroplasts. Becausw the chloroplasts can provide higher level of production of some specific proteins and the level of production of such proteins will be higher than the production in the bacterial cells and with potential to be used in the in the practical for practical purposes in industry. But until now, only a few species of different plants were transformed through chloroplast transformation and in our Institute was developed technology when the chloroplasts from one species can be transferred to another species through. Cyber isation or obtainment of Cybrids and then they can be transformed in those hybrid cells and then through remove transformation then can be converted into dollar speeches and in such way can be obtained transformed speeches which usually can cannot be transformed with respective jeans.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Another very interesting project which was completed on the air in the program was the development of a new selectable system for plant transformation based on marker gene on plant origin becausw antibiotic genes in the European Union for plant selection in vitro must be substituted by another selectable jeans. We used mutated tubulin gene from the of plant origin with mutated one mutated amino acid. Which provide resistant to herbicides commonly used in agriculture in North America and in Europe too, and through transformation by these genes we obtained at a possibility to make a selection of trans.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Nick plants here is here is a presentation in three dimensional models created or development in our Institute of those sites in 2 billion is the structural biology with clear difference between site of bident of such herbicides it will be.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Present it represented in my topic my present during my presentation this Thursday and creation of transgenic plants.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Is it safe to exist technology another technology? High technology is the production of pharmaceutical important proteins in plants through the creation of genetically modified plants. Like here you can see the transformation plan transformation with GFP green fluorescent protein and lighting of this protein under UV illumination and with very high consideration.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And that leaves of tobacco and the same technology, but through transfection by viruses. Becausw its most interesting technology. As for today, which can provide the huge potential for industry and the lot of new companies is appear appearing now which try to use this technology for production of different. Pharmaceutically important protein or pharmaceutical proteins? In our Institute with developed technologies of technology, so production of somewhat atropine an interferon through such through such tech.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Knology and production of anti tuberculosis protein in plant cells through such technologies and obtaining of transformative plant cells and the idea of article. My colleagues is a producing of cabbage with anti tuberculous vaccine or tomato to to look to eat such products in the cases which.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
When it will be needed. And another. Not so so high technology. Development, but the biggest collection of plant cell line from 2000. Speeches from Ukrainian and worldwide flora and which can be used for obtainment of different biologically active compounds and for testing for the potential new pharmaceutical drugs, Pharmaceuticals and trucks and others.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So we are developing other approaches like chemical does.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And then screening new drugs based on the.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Structural biology approaches and enter tuberculosis drugs.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And we are working in the field of genomics. The development of our grid systems as it was mentioned by our Vice president. Because we have obtained direct access to databases, human genome databases, Arabidopsis genome databases in differ.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
In countries of the world. But we are staying in this position, not only politically. We're speaking more politics, but about science too, and I hope that we can use the possibility to be here, to to develop and diversify our can't.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Sucks as we made this in the regional flexi. Around Black Sea. By established through establishing the Black Sea by attackers organ.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Azatian and to find our right place on the cross borders of different Sciences like physics technologies, informatics, biology, another in there working as those fields and this is about biology and biotechnology mostly by a technology in our academia science and thank you for attend.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
In the nice Flowers from Lake Sevan I remembered that three years ago we met with President Marty Riessen in everyone. During the meeting, NATO meeting and revisited Lake Sevan. Very nice time of year. Thank you.
