Welcome to the lecture on the Muse project. And as you see in the title, there are two parts machine understanding where we mean machine understanding of text information, written texts and for interactive storytelling. So we recognize actions and their arguments, events, the semantic roles, who does what, where, when. We have tools for temporal and spatial information extraction, like the recognition of temporal relations between events, spatial relationships between objects. So first of all, lack of training examples. Second, this mapping where we have to bridge this gap between the text and this partial annotations and the knowledge representation. Usually we use a classifier supervised classifier which uses a number of training annotated training examples. But very often we miss sufficient training examples becausw. They are trained on other text and the ones that we use in Muse. Well, we use unlabeled data, so we build language models probabilistic language models, from the unlabeled data and they give us the let us, the learners, whether a certain language phenomena, combination of words for instance, or the occurrence of a word in a context. And then we create based on these extra training examples also incorporating extra linguistic constraints to better perform this. She returned to help her mom with Thanksgiving dinner. Important thing in muses do text analyzes and see how far we can what we can reach with machine understanding of text. Integrated in the Muse Project now this mapping to this knowledge structures is also a very current research. Use of simple rule based systems or supervised learning is not is not very realistic in such a setting. Of course there also you need lots of training data because in that probabilistic grammar the non terminal systems, the nonterminal symbols, they are considered as latent variables and then typical algorithms such as used also in natural language processing where you induce grammars from the data like just sentence parse grammars. We have, of course we, but we have also advanced well some things that that clean. Guidelines will be animated, so this is a world where not all possible actions with all possible arguments an para meters, although there are still combinatory quite a lot, but it's not, it's already still a restricted world to which we have to map, and this is also will reduce the search search space when we do this this mapping and we actually over our training data. So in court decisions and discourse decisions were written by judges who were instructed to write very clearly a very consistently. Correctly. Automatically now you see if you read there well I give you a few examples. So there is a lot of lexical knowledge, so will knowledge that for instance, an anesthesiologist is a physician and that we need to you, especially in core refering expressions. It is cited, marries father and Uncle poke their heads in from the living room, the kids and then further the kids and Mary's grandparents found their seeds and so on. Quite a lot of background knowledge also, so you need to know that dining room and living room are two different locations, so the peak in from the living room and then later they found all their seats in the dining room. Extracts domain knowledge from the text itself in that previous children story you had a mention of the living room, the somewhere else. Maybe we can learn from other sources. But I do believe that maybe in the long run, most of these world knowledge that a lot of the world knowledge that we need in use actually could come from video and image sources. You might also have the video might give an estimate about the duration of a certain action about the placement of certain objects with regard to each other, so there's a lot of information that also we need. So we would like to bring text to life into a certain setting, a virtual world, an if for our use cases there will be a visual environment and also the setting where certain children stories take place and you will see in the second part of this talk you will see also this animation's an hopefully 1 one of the final far reaching goals of this project. If this is not their mother tongue, language for instance, so that he can better understand the content that is otherwise they had to read in the text, and now they can just follow or interact with that text. Principally at Teesside University, and at the French Authority for Health. Interactive narrative can automatically generate a 3D animation that tells a story and also response to interventions. Now they have been previous research in the automatic generation of visual media graphics or animation from text. The complete generation and parameterization of an interactive narrative, which is both true dimensional dynamic and interactive is still way beyond the state of the art. Game effect is described as a situation where the user can only progress by taking the correct actions. Anne doesn't see the consequences of a wrong decision or a long course of action. The scenario we are working on this application is bariatric surgery, so this is a type of weight loss surgery for patients who are severely obese and to whom it is proposed to operate quite drastically by reducing their ability for food intake. Of course, you have now guessed that this is a rather serious decision both for the medical team and for the patient. Where and when and at a discourse level. This is an excerpt from patient document and. That's also related to this dynamic change of visualization mode. We actually want to build a methodological framework, so one of the important goals of muses to develop a conceptual and theoretical framework where we can perform such a pipeline. We collaborate from the several angles so we will develop novel or we are currently develop novel and natural language processing algorithms. Also in the in the planning domain and in the knowledge representation domain, Muse gives rise to novel planning scenarios script. Well, we want to see how far natural language processing can go. How good's current natural language processing is to mimic a full understanding of, or at least a good understanding of that text in an automatic way. So if the content from a text that can be visualized and then shown to users who can judge this content, if the users can as well understand from the visual at least as good half as good understanding from the visual from what they experience in the virtual world compared to when they read the text. The machine somehow has succeeded in translating the text to this virtual world, or has succeeded in understanding in a way, as we humans do, so it's actually a test of artificial intelligence of that machine, but also the connection with this interactive storytelling word, of which my colleague, about which my colleague Mark of Watson will talk, is very interesting because we do not know what.