Most part it was implementation and the period of user training on the test system. The training of key users was done by project management and then such key users performed training of the other system users. The autonomous province some fiber dinner has the population about 2 million. Most of them are circles, but numerous nations and nationalities lives here as well. Spring perch order the purchase order, but the supplier, Bella from in accordance with the tender documentation and the order from the suppliers and Central Pharmacy. We standardize the clinical pathways, procedures, medications and materials. It is a highly specialized health, educational and research institution in the field of onkologie. Administration of the prescribed therapy. Transfer its consumption to the central pharmacy and automatic generation of consumption IT department storage and reduction of stock supply. Security model our authorization at the level of the responsibility Executive data privacy only authorized users can produce report data quality. What is the project result default default filament of the prerequisites for the implementation of integrated system demands. Full engagement of the management organizational units. The human factor is a crucial for the successful creation of prerequisites for integrated system and the synergy of all the participants in this process is obligatory. At the medical level, standardization of methods and procedures in the process of rendering medical services. Increase of therapeutic and diagnostic quality but authorized access and control quality in the economic part. The primary goal of integrated system is not saving but rationalization of consumption and products. As the assistant of the Secretary of Health of EPI Bible dinner, I will tell that recommended system of sender desired medical data, methods and procedures as well as the amendments of business process is. Which was successfully implementing it past two year long testing period on the Oncology Institute is the model which will be implemented in all, secondary and tertiary level medical institution in Vojvodina. The budget of IAP Vojvodina for the year 2000 and two 2010 anticipates the financial funds for the first implementation with Integrated System which leads to the realization of our primary goal goal interoperable. Starts with making a decision and defining goals which must be clearly established, realistic and comprehensible and accepted. All levels of medical institution organization. Each Aehr the principle wasn't five piece proper information on a proper patient available to proper person at the proper place in the proper time. Denies, but the Executive Council of AP Bible dinner, which representative is the project supervisor of the board?