Most of us, hopefully all of us know about what semi supervised learning is. Basically you given a partially labeled data set and you want to label the unlabeled data. In particular, first just for validation and just compare uncertainty between this so the full ERM and also just random sampling just to get a baseline and see what's going on. Keep the accuracy, but make it much faster. Sting observation when I looked at these things and also when I looked at the closeness, namely that none of these strategies work very well by themselves, especially if you just looked at their topic. So that suggested a hybrid approach to me here, and that is basically look at all the other strategies, three of them here. Look at all three strategies. Just to summarize, ERM, is a really strong active learning strategy, but it's extremely slow, and so I Shona showed one weather method here to efficiently identify a small Canada set of notes that you should go after to use your M and figure out which one of these so to use. And as I showed, we have basically comperable performance too. I'm not quite sure why, why, for example, that cluster closeness didn't quite work as well as I thought, and so that's that's interesting. So you really start focusing on the areas over the graph or the data that you should, but I think I think this just shows there's a great potential for using graph metrics to help. They combined relational learning and semi supervised learning graph with active learning and they showed that using empirical risk minimization really worked really well and they showed a really good method for doing that. So as I said, the idea is to keep your end, but limit computation by looking at the best candidates. And that's where we should start off. Closeness centrality is basically trying to identify the notes in the graph that has the shortest path average path to all other nodes in the graph. So if you cluster the graph and then find the most central nodes in each graph in each of these sub clusters, you're going to find these particular notes here, and these were the ones that you would go after, and that seems to be that seems to be a pretty good heuristic at least.