[0.0s - 29.0s]
My name is Peter and I'm going to introduce our topic which is exhibition recommendation using British Museum data and Event registry. OK, so we have a group.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Which we call ourselves Ninja Turtles for some unknown reason, and our our group is made up of Mohammed Ali, Ash, Keena and myself Barrion Jose where our tutors. But we'd also is not listed here. Would also like to thank Dominic on Marco for their assistance and this picture here represents us being tutored by Barry I believe.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, so we define the problem an. Things stand in the British Museum, an exhibition data such as time and date and under like is not stored in linked as link data is stored as natural text on web pages, so this is an issue. But why is this an issue? So we can't. Search for this information as as well as we should. We discover ability is limited and also it's possible to leverage this data a little bit better. So what could we do with this information if it was an audio format, we could do cool things like we could create.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
An app that lets individuals and search. So we learned a lot about Vikings more than I expected to learn with Vikings in Greece. In this example, barree. See the kulaks in the British Museum. With this he wants to search for more related items, so he uses the term Viking and he uses an app that we create search for exhibitions of similar items. The app searches then into event registry. For activations where the concepts are related to the acts and from this Barry gets quite happy he's he's quite excited by the results, so he's alerted to the fact that there is an exhibition of Viking artifacts within the British Museum. So the.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The flow of this the technology represents here quite simply, as the British Museum already have triple Store DB pedia and then those items are merged into a DB pedia. British Museum link set and Event Registry is consulted.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So the British Museum schema is quite gargantuan and it's quite large, so we focus on a very small subset of this. You can see that it's got bibliographic representations. It's got an acquisition, different areas. We focus on the production aspect of this, which is that centerpiece? So if you imagine a very special effect here with this zooms into that.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And you can see that British Museum object was produced by a production event. Which consists of a production part. Which falls within a period closer falls within there. So the period culture is the term that we used an obvious that demonstrated. Cultures is the term that we used to consult the the database so.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
An example query of that is demonstrated here, so you can see that there's a distinct label, a private label returned from the query, so we query for the relation. Return discuss private label for a period culture. OK well this focus is very much on cultures so and ethnic. The ethnic aspects of the artifacts. So we found in this case, well, there are no DP. Your eyes stored for this information. the British Museum press labels correspond with very high accuracy, almost 90% from what we've seen and to DB pedia concepts. So now I'm going to hand over to Alex, who's going to give you a run through of how this links to. Event registry after we prepared this precomputed this link set, which is not in RDF form at the moment.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
We can we we can retrieve DB pedia. Your eyes for individual concept would like to search for and we can use them in predefined queries such as this one where we query for the concept Viking along with museum and art exhibition within the category category. Reference museums. And we we obtain event results. We could combine several such queries or just, or just rework the entire event registration search function at some point. Now this is how this query would be automatically produced in using the event register Jason API and.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
What could we obtain? What could we extract from these events? Well, what we could get is would probably extract the title, the location and the description. These are easily extracted from directly from the. Event registry markup. Time, however, the actual duration of the exhibition is a bit more problematic. Becausw technically. Eventually she does detect time to time intervals, but its accuracy to do so is not. Is not this guys would like to and since we know we are explicitly searching for events which have some duration, we could do better than that. In this case where events are just says that this exhibition will be held on March 5th, which is obviously not correct. But if we read through the text, which you probably cannot, it says that the British Museum will Thursday hold an exhibition which will last until June 22nd. So can we do better it turn?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
That we can. Event Registry gives us an option to query for all data mentions within within the event articles, so we could use this, clean it up by filtering such things such as data mentions which are outside of some time window, for example a date from 2001 is probably not relevant for exhibitions today, at least not for their duration and then just take a min and Max of the rest. To get some estimation of the the. Of the duration. Now as you see, this says that sorry.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So the text says this is an article from March 5th and it says that the exhibition will start on Thursday and last into June 20 seconds. If we do this.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
We get an index in an inaccurate duration, but it's we think we believe it can be. It will be close enough since most of articles about most articles about exhibitions are published a little before they start, so this is usually publication time and this is the end which is usually explicitly mentioned OK.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
This is a interface markup we would produce. We have not code any interface, but technically what user would get it? Some sort of autocomplete search function which would then return. The information I showed you in previous slide and possibly an option to book online.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Her lessons learned. The first thing we we really focused on is that the concept search, so using your eyes to search for this information is better than simple text search. If nobody believes me, you can try Googling for China exhibition. So in order to obtain this, we needed to scrape press labels from a number of instances, since no explicit links to DB pedia exist in the British Museum data and some data, especially time durations, are inaccurate, and those those need to be refined.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
One thing we haven't focused heavily on upon is if we explore other avenues besides culture, so inscriptions or bibliographic data about objects we would need to find a way to combine event register results from those different avenues and aggregate them. Quite confident this wouldn't propose a bigger problem because it's technically just a small small tweak on the event registry ranking function, but we haven't gone into this too deeply.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
For the future, what's left is we could integrate data from a whole range of different museums across the globe. We could extend functionality by user profiling. We could improve the quality of extracted data, but we could utilize tools such as circle lines too. Formalized the links from British Museum data to DB Pedia and of course, improve the interface itself in many, many ways to create a more feature issue experience.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Thank you very much.
