I'm gonna near and I work for the laboratory of Mythology in the National Technical University of Athens. So today I would like to present you the deployment of a partial mesh network for the adoption of district level energy optimization schemes. Actually no ready at the building sector is a major greenhouse gas emission contributor as it consumes almost 40% of the total energy consumed in EU. Another interesting point is the fact that all those cities are covering only 2% of world surface. And if we take also into account, not the pace of urbanization is increasing exponentially. As you can see, for an interrupted operation of 41 days, 17 hours and 8 minutes. We had a total of. Including the results showed that the implemented partial mesh network at seems stable. Roots has very low packet losses across minor delays and more than advocate network throughput. And we believe that other trend of smart cities with advanced interconnection requirements is likely to increase even more in the following years. I don't know, thank you. The bifocal element of the project is called Dennis, which is a district energy management and information system. This park is located in southeastern Africa approximately 50 kilometers from the center of Athens. A building hosting a data center, another building hosting a small industrial company, and Lastly another building hosting a small cafeteria restaurant. You can see the three dummy loads with the blue, the small factory data center. So now, regarding the monitoring requirements at total of 34 smart power metering devices have been installed in the park for this project, which are measuring the total consumption of this building. We have also installed a total of 60 two different sensor actuators which are measuring. So for this result dedicated W LAN was designed, installed the Commission within the park. And equals, prefer to use a wireless solution mainly for three reasons. The first one is the considerable cost of alternate cabling. And it could decided finally to follow a partial methodology based on the following criteria. Secondly, the pursued reliability.