[0.0s - 29.0s]
My name is Christina's class. I'm gonna near and I work for the laboratory of Mythology in the National Technical University of Athens. Here we are. So today I would like to present you the deployment of a partial mesh network for the adoption of district level energy optimization schemes.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So I would like first to start with some key challenges of the energy sector. Actually no ready at the building sector is a major greenhouse gas emission contributor as it consumes almost 40% of the total energy consumed in EU. Another interesting point is the fact that all those cities are covering only 2% of world surface. They meet almost 75% of the global scale to emissions. And if we take also into account, not the pace of urbanization is increasing exponentially. It becomes very clear that managing energy consumption, both building a district level, is an essential step towards sustainable development.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK. Um? The increasing number of energy distribution companies in Europe have set a totally new ground in the European electricity market. Only in Germany if you can see that from the figure there are almost 900 DSOs currently. And this wrapping the groups of the DSOs have provided the. To the European consumers. Significant flexibility on choosing the right provider, but if they but it has also created the need for energy management tools which taken bundles of this flexibility.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So. And. The need now is to. To create distributed management tools which will not only address the environmental objective of minimizing the racing users. Increasing the set of renewable's and mitigating so two emissions, but also taken funders of the different energy tariffs that are offered by multiple image providers.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
This is exactly what we're trying to do under the European Project Ambassador. The bifocal element of the project is called Dennis, which is a district energy management and information system. What does essential is collects the consumption data of all the buildings within the district. Utilizes real time adaptive and predictive behavioral models of buildings. And it's generation energy storage subsystems all exposed to weather conditions. And finally runs the optimization algorithms in order to master the energy flows within the distichs in the optimum way.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
It was selected to you to be used as this site loving technological and cultural park. This park is located in southeastern Africa approximately 50 kilometers from the center of Athens. For the purposes of this project, the park consists of five buildings that ministration building which hosts the LTP Managing authority and administrative services. These two sides built building, which is a research installation of integrated laboratory mentality. A building hosting a data center, another building hosting a small industrial company, and Lastly another building hosting a small cafeteria restaurant.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So here you can have a look of the system architecture in a high level approach. Here in the middle the purple is Denny's on the left. You can see the three dummy loads with the blue, the small factory data center. At the restaurant we call them dummy, loads us. We're only measuring their consumption and not have any VMS installed, so we cannot value their consumption profile. Then we have the administration building which is equipped with advanced building management system and also equipped with PV panels and batteries for energy production and storage. Then we have the edge to such build. Which is also equipped with the building management system. It also has hydrogen vessels where we store compressed hydrogen that we then use in a micro CHP fuel cells that produce. Electrical and thermal power, and then we have also two types of renewable energy sources. PV panel source of 48 kilobytes and six 6 Winter Bynes of six kW 8.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So now, regarding the monitoring requirements at total of 34 smart power metering devices have been installed in the park for this project, which are measuring the total consumption of this building. The energy production and consumption of the renewable energy sources that we have installed electric consumption per building load, and they look at consumption of electrolyzer announced a compressor. We have also installed a total of 60 two different sensor actuators which are measuring. They don't temperature inside the buildings, relative humidity, CO2 concentration, or coupon, see light level have also movements and social hotel cold water thermostats and we also measuring of course internal conditions which are the outdoor air temperature, solar radiation, humidity, barometric pressure and wind speed.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Now, as you understand another for the open full successful production of the system, we need a very efficient and reliable communication infrastructure. So for this result dedicated W LAN was designed, installed the Commission within the park. And equals, prefer to use a wireless solution mainly for three reasons. The first one is the considerable cost of alternate cabling. The second one was the fact that there were areas in the park which were unreachable for cable routing, and the third reason was the vision. A part of the cabling. If you can see from the figure, there are a total of 13 access points installed in the park where nine of them are placed in areas of interest, while the other four, the blue polygons, are only there to serve as bridges for level signal transmission.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
No specific consideration was also given to the topological structure of the network. And it could decided finally to follow a partial methodology based on the following criteria. First of all, the areas that need to be covered. Secondly, the pursued reliability. Thirdly, the band was needed for the expected data traffic and Lastly the maximum data deley which was allowed by the system. If you can see from the figure there a number of pathways in order for the data to reach the final destination, which is the age to such build network. This was proven very helpful and now cause inform us of operation. There were more than four times where we have a malfunction and a broken access point which will be which will compromise the effectiveness of the data collection process. If we don't, we don't have this topology implemented.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So after after installing and implementing the communication infrastructure then we will run a number of tests to test its reliability. As you can see, for an interrupted operation of 41 days, 17 hours and 8 minutes. We had a total of. 769.5 gigabytes of data transferred.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Including the results showed that the implemented partial mesh network at seems stable. Roots has very low packet losses across minor delays and more than advocate network throughput. And we believe that other trend of smart cities with advanced interconnection requirements is likely to increase even more in the following years. The need for low-cost, reliable communication solutions is more important than ever.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
How was the week but? That's all from my side. I don't know, thank you.
