As you can see this is only a visual example of the application. OK, in this picture you can see the time, the time dimension, but in some sense here we analyze the how the traffic moves in in the city center and we want to predict how it moves. We present a new technique to predict the next location of trajectory considering all the movement. Overall, the object in our data so and the time information is not using only two ordered Evans but deeply inside the meter because it's keep the initi pattern modern pattern. Thank you again, I guess. Our basic idea is the basic assumption of our work is that the people move as the crowd moves in the sense that we want to extract a second set of local movement patterns, and we want to use them like predictive rules. And also we want to extract this this local pattern from all the available moments instead using only the history of the single users. So their local pattern we use is. The departure is a trajectory pattern and it described the common behavior of group of users in space, sometimes in terms of regions and time interval. Want an extract this set of local patterns and then we want to merge them to build a global model and use this global model as a predictor. The first one is an approved prediction power measurement to understand if the set of Department we have distracted is quite good for for. So having for time reasons why we must keep the first step of analysis, their priority evaluation, evaluation, but OK having this best set of Department, we can merge them to build the global model. First of all, we want we want to file in the having the new trajectory the best match on the tree then. We generate the same candidates and then we prune some some of them and we can make the prediction. The box score is the aggregation of all the pointers score along the part and so that we use, we use three different aggregation function like the average, which generalize in some sense the distance between the trajectory and impact on the tree. We can use this for the prediction. The best matching part is the part. OK, for the opposite analysis we define, we define three different measure the accuracy, which is the rate of correctly predicted location over the the total number of trajectory to your addicted. I would experiment on Milan data set provided by Jeffrey Katie Project and the data set contains a set of trajectories from cards and we divide. We divide this data set in the training set, like 4000 trajectory between 7:00 AM and ten 7:10 AM Wednesday and we test the meter on the trajectories.