[0.0s - 29.0s]
1st.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I will gave son injured introduction related work about the heterogeneous face recognition and I introduced the methodology called CD FL. And then we will introduce an experiment result and conclusion conclusion.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
First, what is the heater genius? Face recognition, it's different from the common facial recognition. Becauses the Gallery image and the proper image come from different modality collected by different device. For example, if the Gallery is the visible image, visible lighting image and the probe image is the. Do you have another high image so that the appearance of the face is fundamentally different for the same subjects? So this problem is very different from the traditional face recognition recognition problem problem.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The pipeline of the. The system is similar. The first is the data preprocessing and followed by the feature extraction and the matching. The difference is that the feature extraction and the matching must be done in a cost mentality setting. Commonly used commonly used method perform very poor on this problem, so the fundamental difficulty of this problem is to reduce the cost modality difference between the different image, different image.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
US drive for a way to address this problem is used images synthesis techniques. For example, if the Gallery is the photo and the probe is the sketch, so we can synthesize the photo for the sketch and do the photo photo match. Hmm and the. Disentis dictionary learning technique has used to address this problem.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Another technique to address this problem is extract the invariant feature invariant feature. Some gradient based features such as LBP and Hog shift. Insensitive to the. Image modality so we can use it for better performance, but the many useful information may be lost in the feature extraction stage. Cause this feature only model the gradient. Sometimes the gradient is not in love for stable face recognition.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Another way to another technician to address this problem is we called common subspace learning subspace. Learning. Use the machine learning technique to map the feature vector. The high dimensional feature vector of different image into a common space. Yeah. Use the linear mapping or linear mapping.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
In this work, the author used the future learning technique is different from the previous method. Be cause future learning. Use the data driven technique. Data driven. No prior prior knowledge is required. So it can apply to different application, different application, the cross modality difference can be directly reduced at the pixel level. So the image loss, the information loss is minimized. Because of this, this method conduct on the pixel level. The benefit of this tennis is to found first. It easily involved in different application, no matter the modality is what? The learning technique that learning method is the same, just change the training sample. We can get the optimal result for different application. Secondly, it emphasizes both discretion and correlation information to improve the performance.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
There are many official learning based method has been proposed. In the machine learning domain and apply to many computer vision problem. For the heterogeneous face recognition problem, the basic idea of Fisher.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Tony is very simple. Just. Thus. Different color means different color triangle means different modality image. Or the different majority sample of the samples. Future learning map for age 2. Learned a filter local image filter to map the sample to the center. Today sank last. To those anchors.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
The formulation of the city FL is that giving a P * Q image I? The map for City FL want to learn to filter local field for the image. The IK means the. Local vector of the of the image. And Alpha is the filter. However is the filter. Inspired by LBQ. Apply this filter Alpha to the local Patch. Is not very good abetter way is to apply this filter to the so called pixel different vector. Just. Use the. Pixel value minus in a local neighborhood. Just use the pixel value minus the center pixel value and then construct local vector. Local weather

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And the principle of the city FL is to build an optimal fighter Alpha to reduce the Metallica majority gap majority gap. At the image pixel level. The input image. First, the input image is used to extract the local pixel different matter. Each pixel X pixel position extract a column of this matrix of dimension and then the CDF MF learn a filter. To map. Each column of the. This match to a. Low dimensional space in this space. The interclass valuation is maximized and the within class valuation is minimized. And at the same time. The correlation between. The. Different image of different modality of the same subject is maximized. Maximized creation of the image of the same subject.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The objective function of CDFL is defined as followed. It contains 3 turn. First turn is the between class scatter metric. And the second time is the within class scatter magic. The final term is the defined the correlation between. Image. Between the sample. The.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Just to turn SB minus as W is very similar to the Fisher linear discriminant discriminant. And at this time and the correction term is wait by the theater. To balance the importance between the variation variation and the correlation information. Another constraint is used to. Subject the scale of the filter. Yeah. Such as the scale to filter equal to 1. And then finally. The we want to learn the Alpha want to learn after the Alpha is the. Alpha X is for the modality one another two is to the the other modality. So this is for one modality and this is to the other modality. Does Alpha X and the Alpha Y. So under the skatterman nature is slightly different from the Afridi. Just. Combine the director of different of two modality together to formulate new scatter magic. Add the tile diagonal. Sub meter is used to represent the within modality, the covariance of the same modality and the non dog sub matches used to. Is used to represent, describe the cause. Majority X is 1 majority. Why is the the other majority? So we can use the general generalized eigenvalue problem to solve this optimization problem. We can get sorted. The final optimization is very simple. It's very simple, just a. Generalized Papa eigenvalue problem. And then the file.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
No feature vector is dude by the local pattern encoding. After the filter is learned and the feature the final filter. Matter is done by local pattern coding and dimensional reduction by the CCA and cosine similarity for matching for matching.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And the three database attacks by this algorithm.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And that its performance is better than the state of the art method. So.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
This paper demonstrates that feature learning based method is performed better than the handcraft method. For the heterogeneous face recognition proper application. And then by learning both cause modality. Discrimination and correlation features. CFL work effectively on three different scenarios. The camera.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Thing is that. Couple discriminative feature learning is proposed for HHFR. And the method is better than the. Fisher Learning Method is is better than the handcraft method? Yeah. That's all, thank you.
