[0.0s - 29.0s]
So I think they think that Gregor was working towards. In fewer words and less is less is always more. Can you be creative without rules? And maybe you could take that back to your colleagues. As a good starting point, 'cause it's a really good point. I think if there weren't so many rules we would it would be life would be better, but it ain't necessarily so. Can I just say that? For me. I've always said that I think I think you're countries and really interesting point. You have got lots of rules and you've got lots of laws. You could spend your whole life shouting at those rules. You could spend your whole time. Going aren't these rules silly? Isn't this wrong? The problem is that isn't how you make change. You make change by doing small acts. And the analogy I'd like you to do is, I think it might help you imagine. I do think there's a way there's a huge wave out there. You can spend when you see a big wave. You can spend your time actually worrying that you're going to get wet. You can spend your time saying we're all going to die. We're all doomed. Everything is bad. Or we can do something. About teaching our children. To ride the wave. In other words, don't spend our time focusing on solving the problems of rules and governments. Find ways to get around them. And that is when I wrote brave heads. That is why definition of a brave leader. Is one who finds their own plot. So I think that in our in our last session. In and I want to want to give you things and ideas to take back and to use to make sure that you can't do as Gregor quite rightly said to say. Oh, they just came with. We don't see what to do with that information. So that you actually feel there are practical things you can do, but I just wanted to focus you away from thinking that you can't do things in Slovenia to a point where I believe you're in a prime position to grow a movement which has this kind of thinking in it. On this one there's a. A phrase that I heard a while back and I call it the pen knife scenario, but only because I used to be a French teacher. If any of you know French, you'll understand why some people say we can't because. And what we need to do is change that center. Remember words are important. I said that earlier too we can if. We can't because you banned that sentence and turn it into. We can if and then see where 'cause it's a form of refusal. Again, see where the creativity leads. And it then resonates with again this idea. What if school was was, you know, we couldn't go to school for 10 years? We can't because we can if. I want to show I mentioned earlier that thanks could be used in the curriculum and it's Dave says what are the practical implications of all of this stuff for you in schools? An example how to have some maths teachers once saying you can't do philosophy and mathematics. He said you can't do it the answer? Is either yes yes or no, right or wrong? The answer 7? Or it's not seven though they said and I quote in maths there's no Gray areas. But maths and philosophy go back a long way. Allegedly Plato, above his door said only geometers may enter here. So these maths teachers were saying, well, give me an example then. So I said OK, what's a third of love? And they were they couldn't compute. But I put that question to a lot of. People. I put it to you. Let's go for three answers, shouted out any language of your choice. What's a third of love? LOL and a bit go yeah. Timo the. Through the first part of the relationship which you are in love with, the 1st third of the relationship that OK you been married for nine years. It's the first three years is love, yeah? Pain, pain, pain. Third of love yeah. 1. La. One teacher, she said chocolate. But then the other 2/3 they were also chocolate. One girl said third of love, Miss. Chuck's toothbrush. Third of love toothbrush. And her teacher said why? And what what, what transpired was that the parents of the girl had split up. But it started to get back together again. And the first stage in that reconciliation. Was that the father had left a toothbrush back at Moms house again? Remember, people see the world in different sorts of ways. So even within maths where it's yes or no, you can still think in a philosophical way and start to borrow down a little bit deeper. Let's get, let's have you thinking or by the way, I thought in my head. It seems really cruel for us to be talking about getting out of the box and then to have two interpreters who are in a box. I think it's hard on them. I think it's unfair, but still get back in your box. Let's get you talking like a robotic ethicist. OK, and robotics and ethics are big issues of today. Can we have what when the robots take over? They need to have a code of ethics, but what is our code of ethics when it comes for dealing with robots and artificial intelligence? So a quick thing just to show and any age can do this. Think so when you take it back to your children, but I'll give you one minute. Members yes no. Something else, should you say? Thank you. To a robot waiter. One minute just on your own with the people next year. OK, who thinks? Who thinks you should say thank you to a robot waiter? Who thinks you shouldn't? Who thinks should not? They were very very, very polite. Dave said, well, it depends. If the robot has been programmed to respond to thanks, but that implies. Thank you is not. It's not about you, it's about the other person. But maybe you could argue that thank you was about me. I know it's like when you trip over a table and say sorry. Or the dog for that matter. OK, so you start to discuss another science. When we did class, we're looking at genetics. And genetic profiling. The genome project. And we started the conversation in the classroom. If your genetic profile showed that you were going to die at the age of 25. Would you want to know? Should you be told whether you want to know or not? Should you not be told? Whether you want to know or not. And everybody can have an opinion. On this and then they gets everybody talking, talking like scientists talking like ethicists and then we can lead into the science. So you can use these questions without answers in all sorts of areas of the of the curriculum. And then. You start to see again. It's back to this. What children are capable of. We don't know what children are capable of. Also, and this touches touches brilliantly with the talk early. We don't know what humanity is capable.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Love. It wasn't long ago. That we said, well, we, you know we haven't got robots that can walk upstairs. It's too difficult. But there's an exponential growth in terms of technology. And artificial intelligence and all that sort of stuff. Have a conversation about the singularity. At some point, what you think about that. Anne. In terms of our limitations are limited thinking, limiting ourselves and those around us? Let me share with you.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
This. El Sistema means the system in Spanish. And it's it's a program from Venezuela. How do you never heard of it? El Sistema so 1975 there was a guy called Mr Abrao. Who was an oil economist and educated wealthy guy who realized that the poverty around Venezuela, the children growing up in poverty? It was more than just a physical poverty. Or a financial poverty? There was a mental poverty as well, he felt. That music. Was an important part of what children should have access to. Quality music and the children should not just be on the receiving end of it, but should be able to partake in it as well. And he said, I'm going to get some instruments and put them in my garage on Saturday and the children from the streets around are allowed to come and just have to go. Just have a play. And we'll see what happens. We'll make it up as we go along. And he got 11 kids. What you have now in Venezuela is about 700,000 children. Every day there are these what they call nucleus. Now these little nucleus little sites around the country where children can come take part in being an orchestra, take part in collaborating. Take part in playing an instrument. And it's the taking part in the collaborative process. That's the important bit, not the music. Yeah. It's of those children as many as 90% of from extreme poverty in Venezuela. So we're talking about the poorest. Some of the poorest kids in the world. The dropout rate. Of that from school. Is only just under 7%. Of the children who take part in this in this project. So rather than saying we need to improve attendance, we will force children to go to school, would say, well, let's work over here because that has implications over there.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
What do you see? What do you think? What do you wonder? What could you borrow? See think Wonder is a just a thinking skills strategy that is used as part of a thing called invisible thinking. Out of, I think it's Harvard. And it's a good classroom technique. OK, children, I'm going to show you a picture. You've got a minute. What do you see? What do you think? What do you wonder? You're structuring their cognitive response to the stimulus. In a simple way, what I'm going to add to it for you is the borrow. OK, I'm not saying you need to set this up in your schools or across the country, you could. I'm not saying that's what that's what this is about, it's about what can I expect to creativity. I see this. But I think here I see links how can I apply that from there over here? Yeah, so see, think, wonder borrow and let's see.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
This goes. OK, so 30 seconds. First, from what did? Just do it on your own or with the person next year. What do you? What did you see? What did you see just with the person next year? What did you see? What did you think? What did you think? And notice the difference between seeing and thinking. What do you think? Next one.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
What did you wonder? What did you wonder? Last one, what could? You borrow. What could you borrow from what you've just seen? OK, bring it back. Every child you might have notice they had red ribbons and medals. Every child it takes part in El Sistema has this metal and on the medal it says in Spanish to Carla Luchar. Which means. To play. And to fight. To play into fight, what would be? On the medal. Of the children leaving your school. Yeah. In England, at the moment it would probably be working to an acceptable level for their age. Yeah. But you can change that. What would be on the Medal of the Children leaving your school? Three and three words are not big medals. So. Questions.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
To what extent? Members said answers the dead ends questions are important. If we're thinking in terms of questions, and if we're opening up children to questions, to what extent are these sorts of questions? And I'll let you know this PowerPoint will be available to you so you can have these are these sorts of questions frequently heard. In your school, in your classrooms. What what do you think? What could that? What do you think, but not in a sarcastic way? What could what could that mean? What could that know? What does that mean you think in terms of possibility? What could that mean? How would you solve the problem? You might be full. But I'm going to ask you how you would solve the problem of world hunger and see what happens. Do you disagree? I'm telling you what the world thinks. Do you disagree? How does this? How does this link with that? Imagine if these questions were not only asked. Increasingly frequently by your teachers, but also by the children of each other. Sometimes in education we think as I mentioned, control earlier we bit controlling. And we think if anybody is going to ask a question, it's going to be us. And if anybody is going to be an answer question and answer a question, it's going to be to us. It doesn't have to work that way. There have been lots of question and answers going on amongst yourselves. I don't know what went on, but I know something went on. Yeah, and I can find that out using my gift of teaching by coming round. If I chose to for me.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This is one of the most powerful. Come on 4 year old child persuade me come tell me how it is. Argue your case. Stand up for yourselves. One of the benefits that I found from the Funk's work is that it improves children's self esteem. My thoughts count. And I can therefore I count. I've seen that over and over again with all sorts of children. My thoughts count, therefore I count and you see them growing in a positive way.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Questions you've got one minute on your own or with the people next year can you? Can you give me a number please? Between 10 and 20? 12 Thank you correct. Can you come up with 12 questions? That come into your head as a result of that picture. No rights or wrongs. You gotta minute 12 questions as a result of that picture, jot them down or just add them in your head and. OK, let's have let's have 5 questions and just shout them out. Any language. We'll get it. We'll sort it. Say it again. Where are the doors from the slum? That yeah. How did the people playing tennis get their ball back? I imagine people over here seldom their balls back. Three more three more questions. Who would want to live in a flat like there? Who would want to live in that sort of apartment? Two more questions. Yeah those yeah can we swap then? How can you base on top and watch? How can you? How can you bathe on top and look down on on that? Yeah, yeah. One more very good one more. Do children from both parts of the town building the same school? The children from both parts? Go to the same school. I think we know the answer to your private school debate. So as a stimulus. You know one of our associate colleagues he talks about he uses the phrase where's the curriculum in that? Where's the curriculum in that? So just by putting that up, you haven't planned a massive lesson. You just getting children to ask questions. So learning becomes the process by which they start to answer their own questions. Yeah curiosity, we touched on that right at the very beginning. Their own interest. And there are your questions. There's a lot of curriculum covered in those questions. Yeah. Anne. So yeah, so it's the stimulus. And then the questions rather than just the delivery all the time. If you like what you've also gotten this idea about and I've touched on this and I've got two more little slides and then I'll shut up and pass over to Dave. The idea of certainty and uncertainty. And there's a Nobel Prize winning physicist. Call Richard P Feynman. His very first public lecture. He had Einstein and Niels Bohr in the front row. That level of thinking he is. He was on the Manhattan Project development of the atomic bomb. And this is what he has to say about certainty.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
I have approximate answers and possible beliefs and different degrees of certainty about different things, but I'm not absolutely sure of anything. And then many things I don't know anything about, such as whether it means anything to ask while we're here. And what the question might mean. I might think about a little, but if I can't figure it out then I go to something else. But I don't have to know an answer I don't have. I don't feel frightened by not knowing things. By being glossed in the mysterious universe without having any purpose, which is the way it really is, as far as I can tell. Possibly it doesn't frighten. He says elsewhere, he says, we've got a scientist. We've got it. We don't know. Two, it might be this. That's it. And in a world of increasing complexity. If we teaching children that there's an answer to be certain to be sure, and then they hit the world and then they lost the students who have the most challenged with the thugs who are most upset by the thanks, are the academic ones. The ones we used to get in the right answer. They get so frustrated. Like the ones coming about to assemble, what is the answer denser? They want an answer and we're doing them a disservice. By letting them think. That this certainty. And that the answers are in the back of the book.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And if it comes back to this. Alright, and this is as you walk around your schools tomorrow. Whatever your role in school as you walk around. To bear this one in mind, as you do that. What is going on? What is being created in these connections in their brains? By by the processes and systems that are in place in your schools? And how could it be different? And how can you tap into, for example, rather than delivery of knowledge, curiosity? So we come back to that to look after to curiata kurate, yeah, I'll hand over to this gentleman for the last little bit talking of curiosity. Thank you. So I wanted to just think about four four ways you could do something starting on tomorrow. What can we actually do to make a difference in our schools? And I think it's thinking about your structures, what you know? What might you do? Well? One thing. Think about. Think about the questions you ask on the corridors. Does your school make the kids believe the only place they learn? Is in a little box. With the teacher. On the board, do they think that that's the only place they learn? 'cause I would suggest. Probably the most fertile places for learning in your school. Are the corridors the dining room, the playground? One thing that I've worked with some schools on. Including one I don't wish to make a wonder trail. And what we did was head 100. Great questions. Questions like. Is there more hapiness or sadness in the world? Question like. Where is the best place in the world to be? Questions like is anything boring. Trick questions, joke questions, and these were all hidden on little plaques which we stuck around the school on the top of walls. Down by the edge of doors. On stairways. And everyone was visible from a place that children would go, so they didn't have to open doors. But they just looked. And we did a lot of things with those questions. They cost nothing, but we're just bits of plastic with it on. We told the children there was 100 questions somewhere outside. And we said we want you to find. Your favorite 5 questions. Or we want you to answer Question 37 today and they have to find it. All those things do. Is make the children realize that school is actually here to get me interested. And you see children rushing around trying to find a look for questions that they have to answer. Another thing you can do. Is to think about. Any new parts of your curriculum you're developing? And. Talk to yourself and say. Don't do the obvious thing. The best example I have of this is one of our speakers called Who's called Jonathan Lea. He has a primary school. In a very rough area in the North of England. And they were developing an outside play area. And. They play with mud. And for those of you think that's not, your children will go home dirty. The school says to parents children coming to this school will get dirty. If you do not like that, don't send them to us. I'm the school. Let's the children or makes the children play with mud. So the children arrived in. And they have. A letter from the King. The King says I am getting married. And my new wife. She loves everything made of mud. And we want 20 different dishes. Types of food made of mud. To be buried and brought to us for the for the celebration on Friday. So outside they have. Kitchen area. With a little bowl. And some dirt. But they didn't have any water. So the question. They were faced with should they do the obvious teacher thing and put the water. Right here next to the soil so that the children can go water soil MoD great. No. What their school does is said. We need to make it more difficult, creative difficulty. So what did the school do? They put that app. Over here. Round 2 walls. And they didn't. Make it easy for the children. All of the puns. Had got holes in them. They just left it. The children had to find a solution and the teachers did not rush in. As soon as the children found an answer. Apparently some of them undid the hoods on there. On their jacket and we're running round. The teacher let them discover. Let them find a solution, not the solution in the teacher's head. Be brave and realize you can allow your children to find a solution. So whatever you're thinking whether it's for old children or for young children, don't play the game of going are. If I do this and then you do this and you pull that button and you push that haha, you have solved it. That's not education. That's just a complicated game. Set the problem and make it real. Don't always have in your mind that you know where they're going. The third thing I would look at doing is encouraging your teachers. To use objects. I have a variety of all sorts of interesting objects that I collect here. And we used to put that. We used to encourage these to be used by teachers. Because I see so many teachers come in. And their lessons. Don't captivate the children. Very well, this particular object only got the other day and wonderful is a Christmas tree that you can put in your in your pocket. So I have a Christmas tree in a card. How cool is that? Object start. Make you look make you think this object, for example, is one of my favourites. Now this is 2200 years old. It's a Chinese knife coin. It was actually the pre runner. It was before coins. And they used to wear it. On their belt. And they would exchange it for goods. If you look at it and I'll leave it out for you to feel. You can see an old character on it. This is copper. You see very tarnished copper. But to me. To feel to hold to touch that. If you ask me now to talk about what life was like in China 2000 years ago, this object helps me. It would help a child you share this object with a four year old. Unexplained and think. You make stories. There are. So many wonderful objects. There are puzzles there are. I will show you this later, but if if we just. If you. If you these are three 3 boxes if you pick them all up together, put them down. You think yeah, feels like 3 boxes. If you then pick up the top one. It feels heavier. Then the three together. The top one is heavier than the others, but it feels as if one is heavier than three. Now that doesn't make sense. It is actually a really interesting scientific fact. It is a measurable thing. There is some very interesting papers proposing why it is. It seems our brains actually evaluate weight without us realizing. But for children it's wonderful. You can make these for free. If you get 3. Boxes you put file boxes in your office. In one of the top one you put magazines. The other two you leave empty. You have this amazing piece of. With interest. It will cause children to talk. It causes children to think what. What is the world like this thing here? Again. I can only tell you and then let you try it when we've finished and we're packing up. You hold the piece of. Plastic to your ear. And you run your nail. Done it. What this one? I think this one says, congratulations. Jesse. Yeah. Yeah, congratulations. Kids are fascinated. If you go slow, it goes. Congratulations if you go fast explosions. The science I've used that. With five year olds. And I've used it with 18 year olds with adults. It costs. 550P on the Internet. There are hundreds of objects like this. This one costs nothing. This is called the Mobius Strip. You can make these. If you've never used them, they're fascinating. Just join two ends of a piece of tape or Cardboard together. Cut it down the middle. I'm not surprisingly, thank you, not surprisingly. You end up with just two circles. That's not a surprise, is it? We end up with two circles. Hey, hope Whoops, that's not a surprise. If however. We put one twist in it. What do we think happens now? What happens now? Rather unusually whipped coffee Cup this through. She say we now just have one. Big circle. And if I do the next stage the same pieces of paper, but this time I put. Two twists in, so one and then another. Same thing again. Cut down the middle. The finger then. Now what do you think we have? 2. Connected loops. How could you imagine how could that? And this is a thank you. How could that be used in a lesson? To make the learning more memorable, quick chat, how could you? How could you make? How could you use that in a lesson to make your work more interesting? Quick chat. Anyone want to suggest how they might use this in their lessons? Give you some suggestions. One thing you might do, for example, if you were doing a lesson where you it was any lesson where you had different ideas, you were saying these two things are similar and these two things are different. Suppose some idea. Suppose you were doing some literature. And you wanted you were doing about 2 characters. That were not connected. You might write their names on those ones. On this one, you might have the names or the descriptions that were connected. On this one, you might have the names of characters who combine to make something more interesting. You think in science how you could use those that simple technique? You could have solids and liquid. There is so many things you could do, think of the difference of your children when at home. They get these out and say wow today we saw this. We learned this. And the parent says what's the writing? Oh, that's because these two this is connected to that one. What we did and is growing now is we we collect these sort of objects. This is a bit of meteorite. This is a 3D. This is a 3D picture. There are puzzles. This is a pair of glasses case which turn. From being so turned from being green. To be in yellow just when you open them. Objects. That are interesting. Many of these objects are free. But we put them in a room. And we called it the Wonder Room. Or the curiosity cabinet. Around the world. Schools are starting to develop these. Colleague of mine Doctor Matthew McFall is the expert. And he's even working in LA at the moment, helping create cabinets of curiosity. Children love it. The best schools are putting the children in charge of their cure. They're making them curiosity curators. Making the chill. Giving the children the responsibility to form it. In one of them I saw a shelf of boredom. And you were only allowed to put something on the shelf if everybody thought it was boring. And as soon as something was put on, there would always be somebody would remove it. And you might say my school has no space. You could do it in a cupboard. In reception. You open it at the start of the day in the middle of the day at lunchtime. The final idea I give you that can work and I know this works 'cause I did it. Because I had a wonder room. But the children this children loved it, but the teachers they were always too busy. And I wanted them to come and to get an object. Like this, so you think this object's lovely? These two things look completely different sizes and you can swap them over. It's an optical illusion. Sing I love objects that make you go, wow. Well, I have here one of those. Counting disappearing people. We can look at that later. What we did was we put objects. Into boxes, cake boxes. We tide up the boxes and each object. Each one we gave to a member of staff to a teacher. And we said you open this in your classroom with your pupils. And your challenge this week is to use that object. In as many interesting ways as you can. And at the end of the week, all you do. Is you put something back in the box? To me to tell me what you've done. It could be a video, it could be some pupil work, it could be anything that was the only rules. That was the best week of learning I was. Ever saw? I heard laughter on every corridor I saw. Teachers being inventive. Teachers being very inventive. And some of the objects were really silly. Somebody had false false mustaches on. Another one had little bits of rope in it. Another one had this thing in it. Now I don't know if you've ever seen one of these quite fascinating. There are an energy stick if both ends are connected, it does that. But they actually measure conductivity. If you hold the end. If you hope without hand there will you hold that. Now you put your hand there. And you give your hand there. OK will see how far it will go back around so it will come back to me now. OK, and if we touch. You can, you can actually. Make a circuit. You can make a circuit of people. Now the teacher who had this. Did some amazing things in their class about everyone working together. 'cause if you get the whole class. One person breaks the link. It doesn't work. But think of the science you can learn from that. Think about. The conductivity of humans. The past, how much current is going through us when we do that? The world is full of interesting, wonderful objects. Your schools are already full of interesting objects, and I'm not just talking about the pupils. Slovenia is one of the most beautiful countries. Do you make the most of where you are? I've been in many a number of the schools. They're lovely. The buildings may not be the most new. But they have so much potential for wonder and curiosity. And each of those things I've described. The Wonder trail. The one the room, the wonder boxes or. Thinking about. Creative difficulty. All four of those don't cost a lot of money. They cost time and energy. But think how important it is. If you were, if you're ahead. And the next staff meeting you were challenging your teachers to do something interesting and innovative. Think about what that makes them feel like. Don't make it an instruction. Make it a challenge. Try to see who can be the most imaginative in the staff. One or two won't be, we know that. But don't worry about them. Encourage those who are. Let that little flame go into a roaring fire. Don't spend your time and energy on those who sit with their arms crossed. They will change their mind or they need to change their jobs. But don't worry about them. So creativity in your school. Steve again. We're roughly there away, so I think that's rounding. Rounding up for us. I think we're going to move to a panel in a in a moment. So we'll have some questions in a moment. But is that what I would just say is, please? I hope you leave here. With. The smile we ask for. But the most important thing for me isn't the smile. It's actually doing something. And all I ask is do something creative, something that gets your kids to to realize that education is the greatest game. Is the thing we all want to do. And that it's not some boring thing that's handed down. So thank you very much and I'm really good. Thank you.
