[0.0s - 29.0s]
Afternoon to any to everyone I'm my name is Marco Acree and I work at the University of Novel. It's a in a program on heritage management and actually the first slide which is not mine. It's about this program on open education is showing you that the power value and this is something I would like to start with. Becauses I will be talking on about a very narrow topic. Let's say today about heritage. So we we shorten a bit the view. Which is not. That may be important for the impact at the international level, although we are addressing important topics for UNESCO, for example like culture and education and the proper values are very good example of how heritage in this. In this case the cultural landscape can actually influence daily life of people living in a place and also can influence the daily life of people. That there may be willing to visit that place. I work at the University of Nevada on a programmer postgraduate program on Heritage Heritage. Studies actually, and original title of the program was economics and techniques for the conservation of the architectural and environmental heritage that is addressing master student, Second level, master Students and PhD. So with very high level topics, innocence and very high level experts. Addressing these topics. Experts that are talking about heritage theories, techniques of conservation and management, economics, marketing and so on, and cultural tourism. And when I presented this idea about this program, I was actually thinking about this biggest fear I had in my hand. I mean, a lot of information, a lot of recorded materials, a lot of PowerPoints, alot of papers, and if it's my topic, I am a conservation architect with a specialization in. Goodman management, so I've been trying to focus on urban context. My knowledge as an architect as an expert in conservation, I studied in the invented by the way where I actually live, so I have this also background for those that are not that expert in this field or maybe not acquainted to it. Venice is one of the places where conservation theory was born. Are asking in the in the 19th century was writing about the conservation is romantic conservation. Approach by talking about the stones of Venice is a very famous book of him in that same. A lot of different other approaches started, but people do not know. Of course that conservation is of built heritage, but in of culture in general of cultural heritage is very developed theory. Of course that achieved very high level and standards, but these standards are not that common to the daily life. So I was very much. Helped in my in my work so far by the two mentors, Professor Edmond over from the Technical University of Madrid is an expert on online courses. It was very, very good in a challenging channeling me to the most used tools and platforms to address these topics and Professor Joshua Tree bug and mushroom from malicious University and she's an expert. Well actually, she's. In the Department of Civil Engineer. So she she was somehow talking my language about built heritage and so we could channel actually by our research in this specific field, which I understood, it's quite different than.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The others we have we are experiencing today. What I decided to make to how I decided to organize the presentation apart from of course the scheme that was given to us by the organizers try to show you one of the modules that I was. Developing so I started by giving you some ideas on the project descriptions and my idea is that I want and this is coming from some experience ahead. Of course, as an as a conservation architect as that I'm not only working at the University, well actually I'm working at the University, but in the past I was working as an architect, so I made my restoration works on monuments but also on traditional buildings and what I perceived is that what is missing actually, although we have very high level and standards in the conservation theory. Is that people do not know about that. So for people in general, I mean conservation and heritage. Very often are burdens conservation is something that is impeding them to express their individuality. Let's call it something that may be potentially it's better to avoid and this is happening at all levels. I mean, in Italy it happens that you restore your house and you find the phrase score of the 13th century and you destroyed it very rapidly. Otherwise the authorities will come and will save it. And then your work, so will be stopped for 3 four months and this is starting from the lower levels, although of course the knowledge are there, but the knowledge is are there for all and Eunice quizzes existing also for that to guarantee the standards but in different in all the countries. These standards are not respected. Of course anyone is perceiving this time that's in his own way. So my idea was talking not about capacity but about capabilities and this is something I learned from other projects in the past. European projects where I was told that actually everybody. Is as capacities in itself, so it's like the potential when we talk about physics. The potential is there, but the problem is how to put it in place. I mean, your capacity is about developing your capabilities and capabilities to about appreciating the fact that tangible heritage is an expression of the of the intangible, historic, intangible knowledge at local and local development. So if you are living in the Papa in a traditional house, you're living in something that was developed only there because people before you. Before the globalized technologies and materials were able to adapt themselves and their daily life to their context, and let's see, This is why. For example, in the power you see. For example, these tiles on the roofs with the stones. Because this was a very simple mean to prevent wind to destroy the house or the OR the ceiling, and so on. And then this is going about a very simple topic which is about authenticity and integrity, which is the very basic concept behind all these theories.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
As I said, the preservation is going back to what we actually perceive when we do cultural tourism. It's about this our fair, and that's a French word that which is actually taking you to that country because everybody is thinking about Provence as the nice place where you can experience the lavanda. You can experience the traditional house and the local cheese and the local wine, and this is actually what I'm talking about. About the genius logic about the capacity or maybe capability to understand. Your environment an adapt to it. And this is something that is always for.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Often when we are working in heritage studies, this is an example. I put it because I took it 3 days ago in Puerto. This isn't traditional building that was preserved in everything. Of course, on the roofs and the windows and everything. And this is displaying how traditional buildings import over 100 years ago, while if you go to the to the building that is attached to it, it was completely demolished somehow in materials so you cannot perceive how it was before.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And now people were actually living traditionally. That's the issue I talked to because I understood we have time constraints. And this is work that I underlined identity somehow. It's also here diversity. And this is a word that is very often used on everything.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
This. And I'm I'm an architect, so I talk a lot with images and this is an example of what I'm talking about. We're not far from these examples. This is extreme. It's a house, and here you have the three levels of UN capability because you have the level of the. Owner, this is an old wall defensive wall and the owner decided to make this building. There's a capability of the local authority that allowed this building to be done in that way, and there's not capable and capability of the builders that also accepted to make it so that 3 levels of persons that are contributing to this. Let's call it disaster in a sense, because this is totally changing the local environment, and if everybody everybody is acting in the same way very rapidly, we will be losing the specificity and the. Richness of the place, and this is a lighter example, but is showing the same. I mean a lot of. Adaptations that are completely changing the character of the of the of the building which can be seen, for example in the windows in this plastic finishings in the socks, and so on and so forth.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
About the main objective, this was the main problem for me. So about in the main objective I described it, but about the target groups and my mentors were insisting a lot with me about defining the target groups and I was always having in mind that people in general, I mean the owners of this traditional buildings, because we're not talking about monuments, so they are. The levels are very clear, but the owners of this traditional buildings, the people should be the one to be addressed. And this was opening, of course, up a lot of different difficult scenarios like language for example, how people can be reached through this. Open courses are people have. Do they have availability of technologies? Are they using the tablets or the PC or or any kind of different ICT? So but then and being late or so over the project and develop developing other projects. For example I delivered. The European project last last week on traditional buildings, well, traditional products preservation in the admin area, it came to my mind very clearly that maybe we should focus more on the local authorities so we can have in this project. And this is how it's developing. Still we can have three different levels. One very very simple. That is for the local populations and this can be of course if it is simple, can be also translated into different languages and. Customized as we were saying this morning to different contexts or maybe local contexts, the local authorities, because those the local authorities are the ones that at the moment are responsible of these changes at local level. And then of course can be with a lot of deepening's for the experts as our students. The PhD and Masters students or the professionals in the fields that already knows. Let you know the problem already. Have the language to understand this problem can go into the deep endings.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So these were the main steps that I translated in a second slide into modules, so about talking about what is traditional heritage, what is tradition in general? What is heritage? Of course. What is authenticity and integrity? The level of the theory of preservation, maintenance, conservation and restoration. Here you see four different words that are meanings, different concepts. Of course in the same field. The adaptive reuse, which is something that we are facing everyday as individuals but also as institutions. When you're dealing with traditional buildings or with monuments, what is tourism? So how it is impacting actually our life. Very important now is also the circular economy. So how preservation is related to the setcolor economy and also traditional buildings were once related and of course the case studies and I put a lot of them here. I don't know if I have.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The list, but some of them are very familiar with, like of course the Papa Ben is Gricia, but also patio that is here in Croatia that is showing in different contexts, the Netherlands, and so a lot of these case studies I'm familiar with because we have materials, but because also I was spending quite a lot of time in these places and these are the modules, so seven modules that can be developed according to the. Target users, very simple ones through for example PowerPoint or very small audios and pictures. This is something that I was developing, but can be enlarged through depending's. For example using the famous big bag height of courses and contributions from Excel and professors in our in our course. If you want to go deeper.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The learning outcomes. And this is related to the development goals. Understand the global scope of heritage studies and their relevance for local traditions. Understand the material number, title, aspects of heritage. So this is related to society also to the cultural diversity, which is one of the pillars actually of UNESCO. NYS Heritage as a process, as well as a product of certain activities and individuals in the past and in the present cause. We are also amending heritage somehow. Of course it is depending on the on the on the. On the weight of our contribution to it recognized, recognized heritage studies as specific field of study, which is not that common because everybody. I'm an architect and when when when we're approached to make a renovation of a house everybody's expert, so they're telling us where the kitchen should be, where the bathroom should be. I want it blue. I want it if you know everything you can go alone. But this is very, very common, so everybody is expert in our field. And then of course I understand the idea of authorized heritage discourse, which is very important topic at the moment. So there is actually there are people that study that quite extensively, so we have to trust also sometimes, so it's not.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Only about. Participation, and this is a very very simple example. The first module that I developed basically for the people that are approaching to it. So the very basic level. So what is genius? Sorry genius.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Back sorry sorry, sorry. What is genius logic what I was telling you about the first 2 hours to the specific creative inputs that that is generated by a specific place and is different from place to place. And now we're talking about administrative borders like Slovenia and Italy. We have the administrative borders that is divided into two countries, but before that this was not. They were not two countries. It was a cultural landscape. People were talking the same language because they have the same constraints, the same resources and the only border they had was. The sea or the River or the mountains. So this is something we have to keep in mind. Also when we are approaching heritage.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Examples of genius lochiae put Venice here. Because I live there and this is an example how people actually adapted to the. This is a monumental international level adapted to their into the.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Environment terrorist landscapes. We have them in China. You have them inching with that. In this specific case, people adapting to the environment.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
But this is a typical cost house, so here in the Papa this is also way over the adapting. You have an inner courtyard that is protecting all the family from.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Wind for example, and the climate. But if you go also to the micro level and this is something I was very much interested about. You have also experienced historical ideas also at the micro level like in the Windows for example how they developed these item elements. And this is something we are losing every day, every day. Because if you go to Aretha, for example, here you see almost everyday this windows thrown on the street because I have to buy the new PVC ones. That that internal.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Which is not true, by the way. Then part of the model, the sense of place. Which is related to the genius logic, but is more now related to the social dimension. So how people are making the place? Because you can have a very very well preserved town, but without the social contribution. So this is also some.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And that has been developed recently also by UNESCO with the different.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Actions on the intangible heritage and this is still Venice, so very breaking brackets. Very well preserved down, which is not by the way, from my perspective, but the sense of place is not there anymore. As you see from the picture, this is very simple to see.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
But also in a major level, this is a house. For example in Galicia I said here that you have your own house, it's your own property internally inside the house, but outside the house you are relating to the rest of the population. So how you paint your house if you paint it in pink. Of course you are making something that is individual, you're not relating anymore with the with the society around you and you are changing slowly the landscape. So this is also something you have to keep in mind.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Well, this is I will not talk because here is very simple to understand that this is also a way to treat the place and in a way that is.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Wrong. This expecting, I mean the history this was this is for example in Kosovo. But this is also showing how the social dimension is contributing, although the rest is changing.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
I will not go too much too long and here maybe becausw about the significance. Of course there are definitions given by UNESCO.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And by ICOMOS there is also a way of assessing the significance. And I stay here because for example. About the significance, that is a very good example and I put it in my course of an exercise you can make about describing the significance of your place at the World Heritage List. Of course the significance is related to the outstanding universal value. If you talk about Venice, it is recognized globally, so we have to make an assess its significance for the impact it has at a global level. But you can make the same for your own specific place. We can make an assessment of the significance of the power, for example by listing the peculiarities of HIPAA in respect to other small towns around, for example India, which is which is 25 kilometers far from here. But there is a difference and if you start by describing the significance of your place, it's it's already a moment for you to understand how far you can go with.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Modifications and here you have examples Venice about the signal.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Because this is also important for the significance, this is taken from you Calculator. One of our professors, by the way, one of the highest as experts in the consolidation theory and he was showing us these examples. I mean you have stones, a pile of stones, but in Finland can be a barrier. In the UK it's a boundary stone, but that is if you have rocks stones, not nothing more. Here it's some tourist came there and they put some stones just to have fun. And then you have a Rd mark in other ways. So a pile of stone can have different significance to different in according to the different.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Contexts. And this is another example from UK. Of course all these modules will have bibliography which can be very.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
This is just an example, but can be very basic and can go into deepening's. I don't have the links here, but I wanted to show you from the pack of presentations I have. Just to give you an example, and this is something that I'm referring to in my in my course. Of course we have a lot of available materials and this I took this from English Heritage. Well now it's historic England but was English Heritage. And their approach to conservation is a little different from, say, Mediterranean countries, because they are teaching through practice. So learning by doing while we are mostly moving through academic knowledge and they're showing you actually how you can preserve your windows, for example, this is this is a booklet on Windows Preservation. Instead of replacing them, you can repair them. You can also make them more resistant to the climate conditions. Let's take an example for example here. Yeah, they're showing everything how you can repair, so they're they're showing that they missed that conservation is more expensive, and it's not. It's not lasting. Preserved materials are not lasting more than the new ones. They're showing you that this is simply a myth. I did this. It is possible to preserve them and to keep them in line with the with the pleasant needs. So I think I stop here. To give you some more time, this is an example of how they do it. So I would be referring also to these materials. Thank you.
