Hi, I'm Jamie came from Imperial College London. Anne I'm going to present real time 3D reconstruction and 6th of tracking with an event, This is our joint work with Doctor Steven Leutenegger, an professor Andrew Davison. The event camera works in a totally different way. So as we know, the standard camera has very low frame rate between 30 to 60, which is you know for many computer vision applications. But for example, if you want to track really fast motion, it could be an issue because we're completely blind between two consecutive frames and it could occur motion blur or rolling shutter effect as well. The difference between those two 3 point should be equal to the camera event camera threshold. See otherwise there should be an event happened. So we use it as a measurement for our icaf extended common filter to update our camera pose estimate. Again, we assume that other two components are correct, so we know the intensity construction and camera pose. So once we have our new event, the true depth could be here or here or here. So we use it as a measurement for our pixelwise escape based inverse depth estimation. First one is a visualization of input events and color coded gradient estimation, intensity reconstruction and the depth keyframe. The 1st Six of tracking and 3D Reconstruction method purely based on a stream of event with no additional sensing and it learns in real time on a standard laptop or desktop and we hope that this opens up to practical solution to the current limitations of SLAM enabled product which rely on commercial language sensor and below we would actually emphasize that using our method with the event camera. For your attention an please visit our post session. And we know how to do it with just under camera by using for example feature detection and matching or whole image alignment. But the problem is we have truly different type output from the camera now or sequence of events, not images. So far this has only been successful with restricted motion and two D reconstruction, such as our previous work in 2014. So in this is to be paper we wanted to move two or the 3D slam so same unknown unstructured 3D scene. So here is the overview of our method, purely based on a stream of events to Beijing. Projective reference frame consists of gradient intensity and depth.