Computational linguistic applications for multimedia services. Is a framework to create a service of discovery, composition and reuse for tools. The overall goals of Claren is to promote sustainability and usability. The language application Grid, which is laps. Is going to. So. All the basic NLP processing tools that you could imagine at 1st at first glance and mono and multi lingual corpora in lexicons available, and what we enable is a kind of black box composite servicing. Is handled by Jason LD and the Semantic interoperability is enhanced by using the link data. So the exchange vocabulary has a type hierarchy with inheritance that here. As I said, that was deployed as a Docker swarm on the physical machine. What this allowed to the researchers was enhanced search and discovery. And this was complementing actually quite nicely. So the semantic interoperability allowed for. So we did show that we have successful integration with bibliographic data in the potty, but we need to. Two image archives and moving image archive. Flickr 30 K An visual genome and just other sorts of CPR based datasets, which are of course used in the vision community, but also moving image archives. So within MI Amia you're going beyond text data. Time based media, video and audio and we need to do an analysis of time based media. So it's not based on characters, obviously. If I want to do character analysis or content analysis of text within an image, and so audios can be transcribed text data as we know with with alignment and videos have text inside this caption, logo, subtitles, etc etc. So we've been working on a multimedia interchange format in myth which handle video, audio, text on image and transcripts. This creates an alignment between these different media and annotation types and then subsequently allows for multimodal analysis. Initial draft of this and it's deployed. So the type hierarchy for clams is. I have in terms of the media type I've got time based data, video and audio character based data can be conventional linguistic data. And then I have region based data which is bounding boxes on still images. So I'll have character start end for text for named entity tokenization classic things like that for video and audio. I'm going to want to do for example Ching. Maybe this is time to do it the platform prototype. What's the most likely seen type? So in the context of this work, we have seen types and they specify where events happen, so seem recognition is of course a very very steady problem in CPR and vision, but it's not necessarily adapted to the type of data that we have here. So first we started, we created an event localization corpus which was founded on the Flickr 30 K. You're familiar with 30K, is having essentially annotations describing each image so. For images, and so a man and two kids on a boat, two children wearing lifejackets. So the question is, given an image, what's the most likely location type? TV news, as it were, so we had bars and tones, blank screens, graphics on screen, guest in a studio guest out of studio ahead with the graphic. Is this is a digital slate? OCR on that, here's the bottom third, which is more difficult to recognize because of the noise behind it. What we've done is forced alignment example that I showed you. We'd like to use assets and tools that are part of the web link resource kit and we're talking to Ehrhardt about that and but this essentially is really critical for multimodal analysis, which allows us to do. And I think the multimodal entity Coreference which I mentioned just now. We have been funded by the National Science Foundation for. That was Nancy and myself, but it also is ground on the language grid panacea, lingua grid, and other web service networks that have been worked on and develop within the NLP community.