Do new methods for prediction of enzyme function. OK, so so structured output prediction is a family of matching learning methods where the aim is to predict complex object in kind of one shot rather than trying to predict the components of the object. Why this would be more kind of beneficial for predicting this complex complex objects is that the idea is that we try to utilize the structure of the object. Kind of the breeding ground of this. Adopted. In particular. Anything like this at all? But this is essentially a Parson window classifier. OK. We have been mostly using this kind of tensor product of feature map, so we have which means that we have individual features feature map from inputs and outputs. Any prior alignment information between the inputs and outputs. Kind of pizza representation is actually quite nice in the kernelized formulation. And there are many algorithms that compute this string kernels and you can combine them in different kinds. You can take some kind of polynomial kernel on top of them. That's kind of the sad story here is that none of this actually works in function prediction, so this kind of. That is able to predict conserved residues in the sequences. If it's aligned again, some other, I mean acid in some other sequence, you have an edge in the graph. So you have this kind of tight cluster. Open for this sequence. OK, so there are many hierarchies for protein function. Hierarchized is the oldest one. Do a feature map out of them so I will do this so I have. Here I will then have kind of. It turns out that we actually need to use this kind of polynomial kernel trick, so. In the. Correspond to groups of molecule subgraphs that exist in the reaction. So are whatever we have in test fold. Should not appear in the training trading false, so we're separating the test test easy codes from the training. We also have this kernel density estimates on there. And look for the best best scoring Y in this set. On this set is has taken from all data, so we have all functions we have seen in the in the. So here I show how this polynomial kernel helps us. OK, this line onwards everything is cool so you have have to have some kind of some degree of polynomial kernel on top of your data for best performance, But after that it doesn't really matter. Statistical machine translation obviously is one of those problems. 3C code and obviously cannot do anymore because in training phase it never has seen any examples where the. Methods actually can sometimes get poor digits correct? This very simple method here. Reaction kernels are means to improve accuracy in this remote homology enzyme function. Um? Predict the function of an enzyme from the from the sequence sequence of the of the inside so so we have as input. We would like to build models that. Long term call, like I say here, second goal is very ambitious, but reaching for it can give us. Or let's say margin based structured output prediction models. So you have your inputs, you have your outputs, you map them into joint feed space, so you have some kind of feature space defined for the Co occurrence of your inputs and outputs. It tries to push the score of the. Away from the origin of the. So one class SVM in this joint feature space. So we have two components that affects how well we can learn first. What kind of features do we have? Then we have this way to vector on different ways of saying what is the code direction for the weight vector. Some other features. For get this weight vector business altogether and test, you use to use the features or actually the joint kernel.