I prepared presentation which is more like like an introduction to artificial intelligence from maybe a little bit unusual perspective. No, what's why AI happened now? What made the difference really so? So the key the key difference is really the availability of resources and what are these resources. So 4 gigabytes is something which probably this camera will make. Is out there and everybody can use it. Let's let me show some some of these technologies in life. Is a neural networks right? So this was pretty much uptake and in this short time all the major industries adopted this technology. So this is all the same technology serving this right? And this is our neural networks. At the end, this is composition of very simple. Which kids in primary school would know? But so and typically these functions sit in elements which are called neurons, right? It's just too weak. We leave it a little bit more. OK, so the system is called wiki fire. OK, and we can do this with this tool for 100 languages. So on the previous one we had analyzing one document. So this is the system which is to observe global social dynamics, right? So at the end you get this simple system to be used right? So and we actually asked the question like this, who has a motive actually to kill graphic, and the system comes out with results. It's not really deep yet and this real depth is still still definitely ahead now. On the contrary, right is should be deep from the start. Low oh, it needs to be deep because it really targets all the levels of life from emotional to material and. And this world which we need to describe with with law with legal. It just doesn't have wealth, so description of the world. There's no world model behind AI. Just maybe two more slides, so when AI and law can really meet, so I think it should be really on the both sides, so the key element is really represent representation of the world in which we deal with with law and AI. What actually natural Sciences do, right? So you are mostly social scientists, and now I'm coming from computer science and which is just part of. Is really doing huge progress recently. In relative terms, right in absolute terms. Still, it's not approaching the human where it's really hard. On the other side, law still tries to be conservative, right? Despite all this huge marketing campaigns by IBM by many others right, which are claiming they will solve everything they I know these people in person. In nature, will not discovering. And for this we need some kind of language to describe the nature, right? Machine Learning is a generic technology which we will touch a little bit later. Many other most of the other areas of AI with its building blocks. So this would be kind of quick.