[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK, so I see people in the audience see couple of mathematicians, computer scientists. Both of you are social scientists I guess right so? I prepared presentation which is more like like an introduction to artificial intelligence from maybe a little bit unusual perspective. Plus I'll show a couple of live demos.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And that was the end will touch. The point why AI is not helping, let's say law more like traditional law in a way as it should, or as it's being expected, right? So let's start from very beginning like.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
A quick introduction to AI, so let's start with.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
What actually natural Sciences do, right? So you are mostly social scientists, and now I'm coming from computer science and which is just part of. Natural Sciences right like mathematics, physics and so on so. Huh, when you observe worlds so this can be in principle just physical. Nature can be even SoC. We typically this nature kind of is organized in kind of regular patterns right off and we would see like this danger like crystals. So the images which you see here, these are actually images from the nature themselves, so they are not calculated, so they come either from brain, from rivers, from snow. Thunderstorm and mountains and so on, right? So these are natural images now.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Next image next slide these artificial images so they look pretty much the same as the ones from the previous slide. Except they artificially generated. Now what we do like nature is as it is, right? So what science natural Sciences typically try to do? They try to re discover this regularity's patterns in. In nature, will not discovering. Actually, we're just uncovering what's already there. So typically we don't do. We don't discover anything new IT just we uncovered. What's there, right? And for this we need some kind of language to describe the nature, right? So usually we use. Some kind of formalisms. Usually this would be mathematics, either analytics, algebra logic, so these are natural. Or some kind of formalisms, languages which? Humans evolved through last couple of centuries so that we can describe the nature. So this is a baseline also for AI. And.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So what AI is today so from? Practical. Or from. Non expert POV. Sometimes it looks like a eyes and a piece of our some position of some magic technologies which can solve problems which may be are or are not accessible to humans or sometimes supersede humans, sometimes are still catching up the humans, but it's unclear what was there at the end, right? So AI is nothing too mystical. It's basically collection of fairly simple. Building blocks, so here I put this just simple Lego bricks. My my son is 14 years old. He most of these building blocks he he can deal with right? So he cannot. Compose complex AI structures out of this building blocks, but most of these basic building blocks, let's say high school kit in principle, can do so. This is a little bit of linear algebra, little bit logic, so these are building blocks. Now what we construct out of it. This can be fairly more complex. OK, so this is.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Lego bricks, right? So this is Taj Mahal out of Lego. This is actually my son made like when he was seven 8 so fairly complex things can be made out of fairly simple building blocks. Right later we will see. Live demo of this neural network switch, which actually consists from extremely simple building blocks. But once we multiply them somehow we can get fairly. Complex systems, no. What just few examples. What say I can do today, right? So we can do speech recognition on the phone, right? So when you talk to your phone or your whatever preferred agent so this is AI. What's happening behind face recognition machine translation? If you go to Google or Bing translate. So this is again AI. Machine Learning is a generic technology which we will touch a little bit later. Again, this would be AI reasoning. Usually people don't talk about reasoning, but reasoning is part of AI as well. Just because it's not solving to strong problems yet. So these are some of the. Areas where AI produces good results, but there are plenty of areas where AI cannot even come close yet, and this is exactly where law would. Would need AI to be a little bit more evolved. This is in particular understanding semantics of text. Law typically is very natural language oriented thread and AI is fairly weak on the language side. We will touch this issue a little bit later. Or learning from its own experience. And so this self reflection AI. OK here's a couple of elements of this, but basically cannot do this. So these are some of the features or some of the properties of human human learning, which AI still doesn't have. OK, this is this was kind of.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Quick, more like high level introduction. So AI is about area of research as many others. So here is 1. Trial how to structure AI. What sub areas would be out there so one big area is machine learning, so this is this became in the last five 510 years predominant AI area in serves. Many other most of the other areas of AI with its building blocks. As we said before. Then second very important area would be an area dealing with natural language processing, which includes a bit of extraction and bit of kind of shallow semantic annotation. Translation question, answering text generation, so many areas, everything but understanding and standing is not there, so understanding is what actually we would need. But you can do many other things. But not we still don't understand the text. Vision, huge advances in the last four five years, right? So in early 2000s machines were able to. We're not able to see right now. Machines can see, so this is a big difference. Speech to text, text to speech again 10 years ago. Machines didn't understand texts. Now every everybody has text. Understand speech recognition in the pocket, right? So this is a big difference. So this would be kind of quick. Quick structuring of AI and we will now touch some of the areas.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
OK, before going into AI itself, let's think it's worthwhile checking how is AI standing in the Business Today, because, let's say, 10 years ago we didn't talk so much about AI. 20 years, even less 20 years ago, even less because of a couple of big failures of AI. And then, like, 20 years ago, there was something like 2025 years ago or something, which we call the AI winter because. Late 80s was there were huge promises. What AI will do and then none of these promises were fulfilled. And then there was huge distrust and there was this AI winter. And then only now. Basically after many years kind of AI came back, but it really came back big time. So this is.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So. Colleague of mine. Stuart Russell, British guy. So just recently he wrote and this is completely true. So in 50 years from the start of AI last eight months. Really was as strong as it hasn't been before, so you will see this from the next graph.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So this is roughly how investments into AI companies go in the last couple of years. So on the left side you have 2012 right on the right side you have first quarter of 2017. So right now right? And so this goes not really exponentially, but goes more than linearly upwards. So this uptake of AI technologies due to a couple of innovations which I will mention later. It's enormous, so we haven't seen really such development in the. The last 50 years I guess. I mean, I, I mean the area, let's say for last 30 years from 80s. So.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Areas with a isso AI we said before, so is a set of building blocks. Simple ones like machine learning, couple of others, but these are just building blocks which serve. To solve the problems right so here on the left side you have this domain areas. Horizontal you have. OK how the intensity through time? How particular area evolved through time? So it's sort of. OK graph, so here you have legal, right? So strength or darkness of the of the spot is. Situation, so how well is funding the whole area so legal? You see, with far from saturated and there are plenty of other areas which which are still. On the optic. So this is just kind of quick map so that you would see that AI is not just about. One or two or three or ten applications but many more. Huh?

[348.0s - 377.0s]
No, what's why AI happened now? What made the difference really so? So the key the key difference is really the availability of resources and what are these resources. So obviously computing power so this. IPhone 6, right? So the power of this machine which I have now in pockets, right? Or most of us having pocket, so this was this is row corresponds to the power of the top supercomputer from early 80s, right? So back then this was a huge room. Many people serve this machine and so on, and this is roughly the same power today, right? So this is something which obviously is different then storage I remember. Um? Good number of you are Slovenians, right? So you know Nuke. National University library. So in 95 right? So I was talking to my friend who was system engineering back then. If he sums up all the disks in National University Library which has kind of distant computing center, so he's at if I sum up everything, it's just below 4 gigabytes, right? Just below 4 gigabytes, and this was 1995 and this looks like for the rights this is endless, right? So 4 gigabytes is something which probably this camera will make. Now while I talk right roughly so storage is basically for free. Then next extremely important thing is open source software and now back. In the past, somehow there was software, but standards were not there, but complex softwares were certainly not available today. Fairly complex software solutions in the form of open source, so this means that their software is available. Is out there and everybody can use it. So this is a huge difference. And then developments in this AI, technology and algorithms themselves, specially after 2010, so not 10 years ago or 20 years ago. But really, in the last three to five years. So this is we will find this innovation under the name deep learning, right? So this is this is the later we will see them live them on this. So this really makes a couple of strong advances, and the last thing data availability. So today we can really get data which in the past was a little bit harder, and this data fuels really modern AI, so so these are a couple of. Well, enablers, so to say which allowed this. This uptake from which we see here right? No, what's funny? Maybe it's not believable for you, but I believe me it's true. So like if today if you have just reasonable resources like maybe 2000 Euro, not much more. So with 2000 Euro you by huge amounts of computing power. If you go to Amazon Web Services right? This awos. Have credit cards next few minutes you have huge computing power. With the with zero overhead right you get data. OK, you get data from somewhere, right? You pull the software open source software, let's say from Google, which we'll see later. And in like 10 minutes you are capable of doing things which like 10 years ago, let's say whole cyantific communities were not able capable of doing which ones like image recognition, voice machine translation, this kind of thing. So 10 years ago, each of these scientific communities had already like 2030 years of development behind. But this change of this deep learning? Technology right simplified AI so much that today really undergrad student from computer science. I see a couple of them here, right? In principle, should be able in very short time. Derive a solution which, let's say, 10 years ago was almost unachievable for the whole community, so this is the difference which made this possible. That's why there are so many startups, because pretty much everybody can do this stuff. Everything is just pretty much idea data, bit of money, not too much. This is possible. OK, now I'm extremely positive about this. It's true. It's a good reason to be positive, but still. I mean, we need to be balanced, right?

[377.0s - 406.0s]
But before going on the little bit negative side, what's still not possible? Let's let me show some some of these technologies in life. So.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
First time I won't be able to show because it's on this other machine and it's some technical reasons for this.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The second demo is more important, so first demo would be.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Something which made really a revolution in AI in mid mid 90s. So this is 1 method and with couple of clicks that would show you basically what it does but still what's more relevant.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Is maybe the second thing. Is a neural networks right? So this is what made the revolution in AI in the last. Pretty much five years, I would say so. This was, let's say, 2010 eleven. So this was pretty much uptake and in this short time all the major industries adopted this technology. And today for each Google search you make is deep learning which serves the results. Not entirely, but in good part. Deep learning does. If you go to I don't know Google Photos. If you go to Google Translate, if you go to Apple theory and so on. So this is all the same technology serving this right? And this is our neural networks. What are neural networks right? At the end, this is composition of very simple. Building blocks right? So which is a small analytical functions which are typically just straight lines or very simple ones. Which kids in primary school would know? But so and typically these functions sit in elements which are called neurons, right? This is neuron one. Just. You're right and these neurons are connected with something which we call synapses. So this is just nice story to make the whole thing similar to brain function. We hope that this is similar to brain, right? And now once we have not just like here where we have five 610 neurons, right? If we have hundreds of thousands of them? And we push lots of data through this. This kind of structure. Suddenly this structure adapts to whatever we. Ask this structure and so this is roughly what what's called neural network learning, so I will show you live how this works. So the Google software is called. Tensor flow. Let me go to this one. OK, if you go to playground.tensorflow.org you would get pretty much the whole thing. It's a nice demo, otherwise this is a software library which. Which you can use on. Hugely, massively parallel architecture or another small machine like this, or on a mobile phone, so it works on all layers. So this is now simple neural network. So here we have like. Three layers, first layer, where we input the data right? One layer, intermediate layer and output layer which tells us results and our problem here is very simple right? So we will just separate this blue dots from these red dots. Nothing else OK and the net network is simple, so we click here and we see how the network organizes itself. And it separates. One color of dots from the other one right. Very simple task, nothing else. But the machine is simple, right? So we don't have too much data in that. That's it, right? And this was perfectly done. OK, let's make the task a little bit harder now. So now we have more like this X our problem so you see bit of dots here. Bit of dots here and. On the other, the diagonal would be the same again, not too hard problem, right? Glass little bit longer, but still nicely solves. Separates one from the other now. Let's be a little bit more evil now. Here we have spiral right? And you see some of these red dots are like. Like inside and blue dots are like this and now we ask your network. Well separated right? No network will have trouble, right? Basically one table. It's just too weak. The network itself is too weak right now. Will increase the number of neurons and number of synapses and we'll see that. Actually this will help, right? So let's add a couple of. And add one more layer right so? I mean, this is still far away from brain, right, but? Now let's run this now you'll see, so we increase the power of the language really. So it is nice brain terminology. Neural synapses terminology is nice, but basically here we talk about the language which we gave to the machine to express the model. Nothing else in here. Suddenly the the model is. Are much stronger and. We leave it a little bit more. You see it's fighting really right and succeeding. Before it was not possible, but now since we increase the power of the of the language to express the model. Which managed thread. OK, so this is roughly how neural networks work, right? Now, applications of this kind of neural networks right would be. Machine translation, Google Translate so clear application or if you. Let's see if you're using. Maybe Google Photos thread. Let's say. Photo thanks whenever I run this, Trump comes up. Let's say if you say horse, right? Horses. So I have a collection of my private photos, right? And. I beg search horses. I never told machine what horses right so, but it has predefined models learned, trained with deep networks like I showed before and it has the IT can separate in the same way as we separated the red dots from the blue ones. Right now this machine is separating image images of horses from everything else, so this is the same problem really. It's just that Google trained this on. Many, many images right and OK. These are horses now. Nice if I say I don't know crocodiles. Else crocodiles which I met in my life right? OK, this was one actually which. In Australia. I made the self if we did, but somehow. So why I'm showing this this is so this product Google Photos wouldn't be possible without? Neural networks. Well. OK. Let's go back. Another demo.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Which before I mentioned text, read text is really difficult, right? So now I'll show 3 two live demos and one static slides. What can we do with texts? All three. This demos applications are pretty much on the edge. What we can do now on different layers? The first one is. If you have piece of asked me a piece of text plain text as let's say. Lawyers will have, right? So what can we do on a massive scale, right? We can. Today, more or less what we can do is just annotate fragments of text we don't understand the text. We don't know on our. In general, we cannot extract relations. Who is what? Doing what, with whom and so on. But we can detect what's. In the text and who is appearing there and so on. OK, so the system is called wiki fire. Vicki fire. Why Vicki fire becausw? It is we. Put a piece of texts like let's say. This is a random text from Syria, right? We say annotate. And now these texts it's analyzed and will be. Each piece of text which for which we can find corresponding Wikipedia category right will be annotated with this Wikipedia category. Would say OK, easy, right? If it's written Syria? Let me just go back to this other browser because the Microsoft one is. Usually having a problem. So this is the same document, just visually nicer in this Chrome. OK, so it looks like simple right? Syria we say Syria and. Machine says OK, this is article about Syria nice. Then if we say. If you say the mask was OK, would be or Aleppo, right would be. Article about the label seems like simple, right, but? Let's go down down here he is Mr Carey, right? Mr Carey OK. So and we check who is this Mr Carey writes and how many Mr carries are out there, right? Well. So here you see how many. Anyway, so here you see, these are all carries which Wikipedia knows about right care. Jay County Kerry, John Kerry Kerry this carry debt. Many many of them which carries the right. So this is. This is the hardest problem. So this implication. So if you say. Name right surname context, then it makes sense right? If you but still not always right. If you say the word London, usually everything everybody would think OK. London in UK right? But there many London's right now are. Many so dissimulation is one of the key problems when it comes to text you. Lawyers I guess you understand this. So this immigration how to understand? Concept in one unique, proper way, right so with the machine. This is exactly the same. The same issue. So this wiki fire does this right and plus it does also well understands OK John Kerry is. OK, it's a human person and so on. OK, if we say it's national. Syrian National Coalition. OK, what is this right? OK, it tells you. OK, this is organization, social group agent and and so now if you would go to for instance. Now we did this for English, right, but let's say. Wow. Arabic news in BBC so. We pick random article from today. Oh OK, we don't know exactly what this article kids about Bush are Trump, of course. Oh OK. We need to. So we dumped in this piece of text and wiki fire. Why I'm showing it is because the next the next demo will use this. We set out to detect OK, so detect the language and find whatever you can. I don't know what's wrong now. OK, generally this should work. It's. No, sorry this. I think it's again the. The browser problem. You see, this is the text. Microsoft Browser doesn't work properly in some. So this is this Arabic text right in the same way as I put before English. And now I see. These are rabbit connotations and translations into English, and suddenly we understand conceptually what's this document about. Without translation, there's no machine translation. OK, and we can do this with this tool for 100 languages. For languages which you never hurt yet, so let's go now to the next demo. So we set text is not easy, right? And this is pretty much what we can do today we can do. Lots of worth counting. We can do simple transformations. We can classify text, we can cluster documents and we can visualize, but we don't understand. For this we can go is we can extract elements and roughly tell what these elements are about. We cannot do much more but.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
This brings us to the next demo. So on the previous one we had analyzing one document. Now the question is can we analyze millions of documents? And what we can do out of it? So this is the system which is to observe global social dynamics, right? This is a system called event registry. So go to event receiver torque right? So basically what it does. Oh, I'll show you a live picture. What's happening right now in the world. OK. So the system observes 150 thousand sources in all the languages, right? Any Slovenian, English, German everything correct. Per second we get like 1015 articles. Depends on the 2nd. Here's a little bit slower than it's actually going on, and these articles are composed in two events, right? So these bubbles here are events which are happening right now. And for some events we collected many articles for some events, maybe just a single one. And events compose storylines, right? So sequences of events. So this system basically allows you to observe the world in real time, but not as a collection of endless collection of the articles, but. Well so. Also, fairly structured fairly structured. Sequence of events right event is something which people understand, but they we collect like 5 to 10,000 events which are composed out of maybe 3 four 500,000 news stories right? So maybe we can just pick one of the events? OK, Saudi Arabia would be Trump. I guess you may be interested. Let's pick one. Or we can just pick one topic like. Or maybe this. OK, this is a new story which which is happening right now, right? For this one, we collected 26 stories these articles. OK, seems like a. Sad story, well, many of them said but anyway. And we can analyze OK how the story evolves. Threads. OK, it happens right here and then how the publications went and so on. And there are many other than many other. Visualizations now to do this. There's a whole pile of AI behind. It looks very simple, right? But from. Collecting, cleaning, annotating, going across languages, composing events, connecting events in store line. So is a pile of AI one by one. So at the end you get this simple system to be used right? So this is an example of AI in real time, right? Now I'll show you I won't spend too much time on these demos, otherwise this would be a lecture by itself.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So you just lost. Demo, which is more like on the side of reasoning and knowledge. Usually this is not addressed to much because the topic is still in general too hard. But here we will see nice example of argumentation. So this was the actual example which was shown like maybe. 11 years ago to well, US agencies.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And the story goes like this, right? Back then, so this was the period after September 11. When? Well, there was a lot of money for well. Dealing with terrorists. Related topics and the so. This is clear so I can talk about it so. Funny called Psych, which we had the are we still have a branch in Slovenia and they had a project for DARPA. This is defense agency in US where the task was the following. So to extract, manually, extract back then. All the public related news on terrorism. So there was a army of political science students which were extracting all the public information related to terrorism. OK, so the system knew a lot about the lot fact alot of facts about terrorism and relationships between them and so on OK? That maybe you remember there was this traffic holiday Prime Minister of Lebanon who got killed at some point. And now since the system knew a lot of about the terrorism, so the question was who killed trafficker ear? So and we actually asked the question like this, who has a motive actually to kill graphic, and the system comes out with results. Maybe in the back you cannot see. Bashar al Assad, Syria al Qaeda. US, Israel. Obvious candidates right and which? Supporting supporting sources like CNN, Wikipedia, and couple of others, now we OK we say al Qaeda? OK nice, can you justify?

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Can you justify why al Qaeda would have a motive? Fairly complex question, right? So some of these kids. OK, this guy is Prime Minister of a country which has in this country has conflicts with other countries. And now we're asking who would have a motive? What is the motive rat? So interest to do something right? This is a more complicated question for a machine at least. And OK, so this system is capable of taking questions like this, right? And so basically, justification goes like this which is collected from small pieces of information from various sources, right? So Africa D was. Advocate of economic reforms and al Qaeda was opposing this, and a couple of other facts. And here we have this one we call in AI. This common sense rule, right definition of a of a motive motive to do something motive is that you would like to do something if you gain something out of it roughly. So this is what this rule or the rule is a little bit more. Accurate read and this rule matched match the. That's an area, and so that's why connected al Qaeda with with a motive to kill graphically. So this is an example of. Pretty much most sophisticated. The type of reasoning you can get today with a with a logic based systems, but was extremely expensive to get this kind of solution just because of the way how the knowledge was prepared and so on. Today generally you cannot find systems industrial use of this kind. OK, just a few last slides, so I went roughly through the demos so you saw a few examples of what AI can do today, right? So you saw neural networks you saw a bit how we deal with text with one document how we deal with millions of documents and how we can deal with reasoning.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
How one just pretty much one last question. Why AI cannot serve real long challenges yet?

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So. Despite all the successes right, which AI has still a eyes fairly shallow? What we've seen before like this Google Photos you know, typed in crocodile and crocodiles came out right. So this is impressive. But actually it's very shallow problem, right? Eh, I cannot even deal with three deer and with two D it's good, but 3D is something which is still not there. So when AI people, when we say deep, this really means deeper from compared to, let's say like a couple of years ago. Not. It's not really deep yet and this real depth is still still definitely ahead now. Low. On the contrary, right is should be deep from the start. It cannot be shallow and deeper low and so on. Low oh, it needs to be deep because it really targets all the levels of life from emotional to material and. And this world which we need to describe with with law with legal. Ex usually right? It's still way too complex for AI. Law also for the same reason is using text. This is the main medium to describe this complex world. Law is not using any other formalism, mathematical ones or logic based or whatever, just cause these formalisms would be way too rigid and natural language offers this flexibility, but at the same time ambiguity and other issues.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Maybe just a small point right there? Probably most of you know this statement from within Shine, so the limits of my language means limits of my world, right? So it's really discussion about the language, how we express ourselves, how we express the world around ourselves. So AI has languages, right? It just doesn't have wealth, so description of the world. There's no world model behind AI. That's why AI is today really shallow, right? And. Just to maybe I can skip a couple of slides.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
I show you an example before when I was showing this traffic heading right so I was showing the system called Psych. So this is an example of. Will model which Decyk has. So Psych has world model is very, I would say. Pretty much the only one we have today in the world's operational world model, but it's still very rigid. It doesn't represent any everything what's possible, but this is how approximately how it's built right on the top. It's think right. Then universes think right. Search the board is also think and then we put relationships like universes located in our celestial bodies located in universe, right? Planet is a subclass of Celestial body Earth. And OK. So one of our students did this so it's nice animation, but so all the class is actually taken from the actual world model, which is this picture. So this is 300,000 concepts described in First order logic interconnected and actionable. So this means the machine can reason with this world model. So this is still far the best. What we have logic based, but it's far from being useful on a daily basis on a daily basis. OK.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Just maybe two more slides, so when AI and law can really meet, so I think it should be really on the both sides, so the key element is really represent representation of the world in which we deal with with law and AI. So when a I will be able to represent way more complex. World models, so this is 1 precondition and if law will be able to formalize. It's domain a little bit more. In a technical way, a little bit more accurately or more strict, so these are two preconditions, then then a I will be able to reason about law, not before. So low cannot be used to do probabilistic reasoning where today's technology are pretty good. So probabilistic reasoning means like, well, this guys seems like 40% guilt and 60 knots and without any particular explanation, right? So this is not useful, but today this is roughly how Google Photos work, right so? This looks like crocodile maybe maybe it's not, but looks like crocodile. So this is not kind of thing which law would want. Uh. So until then, write a I can help can be a helping technology for law, but for scenarios which which are like smart search, right classification and immunization and couple of other things which you will policing cried. What we heard before. But these are shallow technologies. There's no depth there.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
OK there couple of Lee.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Switch if you will have slides. I would suggest just to see the state of the art of law and AI.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
And.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
The last slide. So we said like what AI? Is really doing huge progress recently. In relative terms, right in absolute terms. Still, it's not approaching the human where it's really hard. On the other side, law still tries to be conservative, right? And relies on human judgment, which is, like, I guess, justified. The main reason is to manage this complexity of this world, which through AI we cannot do. Despite all this huge marketing campaigns by IBM by many others right, which are claiming they will solve everything they I know these people in person. I know exactly what kind of problems they have and this huge disconnect from technical people and marketing people there, by the way. So AI is moving forward, so we can expect in the next 510 years big advances, right? But it's slower because we are hitting very hard problems. So yeah, that's it, thanks. Thank you very much.
