[0.0s - 29.0s]
So we tried desperately to keep the opening ceremony yesterday evening. As short as we possibly could. You may not have appreciated that with nearly an hour of talks, but I promise you we cut out a lot of things and there were a number of awards that we wanted to give out that we removed from that part of the proceedings and we're putting on this morning, so we'd like to give those awards out and recognize those people now. We can begin. I've gotta ask the Akai president. Get hard broker to both introduce breath, walking me from the on behalf of archive. the European Coordinating Committee and I and to give out the ECCI thesis award. It's a committee that I actually have the pleasure and honor of sharing, so I'm very pleased to invite Gerhard out. Good morning everybody. Welcome you all. Here in Barcelona we half of Edward. My great pleasure to announce this year's Eco Dissertation Award. Let me thank the district in the Dissertation Award Committee, chaired by Toby Walls. The other members were Patrick Doherty, Thomas Eiter, salaried Crouse Lutheran Party, or stock and the Dissertation award goes to Christina Ordiales for a thesis she submitted last year at UPC here in Barcelona. But we need this or not. The reason for that. This award and she moved on to Malala since then and there will be a chance to learn more about her feces in the Distinguished Paper session later this morning and the title of the thesis is cognitive assistance for persons with disabilities. Congratulations. 1500 euros, which is hopefully appreciated, thank you. So I encourage you all to come along and hear the talk about that later this morning.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
As I mentioned last night in the opening, I was able to twist the arm of my employer, Nichter to sponsor an award for the best PC and best SBC the PC, the SBC in the area tested a fantastic job. I'm I felt like a conductor conducting this great effort that went on, went on and so I'd like you to join me in congratulating it was a very tough competition actually picking the the finest, but I'd like you to join. Me and thanking the finalists. Vert Klim you have any Kazakov mantis mantis simcos the finalist for the best PC Award and David Ha Richard Booth and Patrick Haslam the finest for the SPC award. OK, so this is a bit like the Oscars. Even the winners. I can tell you don't know who the winner is. In fact, I'm the only person who actually does know, so this is this is the moment of surprise. I opened the gold envelope. So the winner for I think we are first on.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
PC award yes. The winner of the best PC award is Mantis Emcas. I'm hoping and I told I told them all to be here. I'm hoping is here, see here. I. 'cause it is not only is going to stick it but the sponsoring bed was. He's got an iPad. Wow, OK. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. I will make sure it's handed to him personally. OK, have more confidence on the second one. And we're not going to move to the best SPC award again. This if Accat and iPad donated generously.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
My employer and the winner is David Hoff. Thanks very much. Thanks for your hard work. OK, we also have three awards to give out. There was a very spectacular technical program and somehow out of that there were three papers that we felt there was a committee that was the area chairs was formed. Who selected 3 paper?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Is that they felt when I stood out, even amongst the distinguished papers that we did except and. So there are three papers that we are recognizing this morning and the first is paper by Christopher Robin. It's nested rollout policy deputation from Monte Carlo Tree search paper. We presented later this morning the Christopher. Then if you got the picture. I'll stick it up. Thanks. Each of these awards comes with. I think it's a $500 prize.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
The 2nd paper again presented later this morning is on the decidability of connectors, connectors, constraints in 2D and 3D Euclidean spaces. It's work by Roman conscious cough Yavar never cough. Ian Pratt Hartman, Michael Zacharias give. Congratulations, good paper.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And the third award goes to paper by Nadia Betzler, Rolf Niedermeier and Get hard working are it's unweighted condition condition medication under the border roll is NP hard. Thank you. They're not here. I very much hope to hear because they're presenting later this morning. Yeah. OK well. The opening reception was really spectacular. Probably trying to sleep it off now.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
OK, just before we end I. As I said in the opening, the education and future of AI is one that I value vary greatly and I hope you're going to indulge me the next conference chair, Sebastian Thrun, and future president of each guy asked if he could have a couple of minutes to introduce a new endeavour that I thought was worth advertising to this audience, Sebastian. When I was in Germany I. This is my professor leave machine head. That's all you talk, and it wouldn't be left to him. And then more contemporary task following somebody stepped in Poland, digitising and put it online entirely. Icast this is a possibility to Stanford. A lot of you are invited to students and why these passwords hope to get. I don't know 10 pounds lose this space. Is it constantly being taught repeatedly or whatever you know? Thanks for nothing. OK, that was nice of you again. Your bags have handled it is invested for pH AST of work, focus to greatly classes in the same movie, great sentences. So anything that takes it can graph themselves against them for some performance and is going to cover but half of piano based excellence over sexual positions. I would love to log into strange words & up in the absence Department. Your friends see because if you take something that's usually confine. Out in the world and maybe get them out.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
OK, thank you very much. I have many people think I'm don't have time to thank them here, but I just want to mention Carlos Sierra, who's done a fantastic job as local chair and Craig Knoblock has done a fantastic job supporting me as conference chair. Thank you very much guys.
