[0.0s - 29.0s]
Information is the driving force in today's world. We all depend on it. Be it professionally. Or as citizens in the Information Society. Media producers depend on it. As well as active media recipients, unrestricted access to news is a prerequisite for individual independent opinion forming, and as such, from modern Democratic Society, newspapers, radio, television and online contact create a multimedia world. That world offers Freedom of Information. However, news exists in such abundance that it can become unstructured. Overwhelming. And therefore unusable. Instead of making sense, users can drown in information. How can we make sense of it all? What should we read? What should we listen to? What should we watch? Where and how do we get the information we really want? Was the latest war an invasion? Or liberation. For the latest elections, a grand victory or the result of an unfair election system. Each media user has individual tastes and requirements. Each media user needs his or her own personalized mix of media and sources. Matching media users and media content is the idea behind mesh. The user has to be understood. We have to know about her likes and dislikes. The content has to be understood. The source has to be understood and users have to be aware of it. Mesh aims to extract, compare. And combine multimedia content from multiple sources. To create personalized multimedia summaries and provide end users with a web based mesh news navigation system, ha. Among others, mesh utilizes advanced Semantic analysis, video analysis and technologies such as speech to text. Mesh brings together the expertise and skills of a variety of European organisations that make up the mesh consortium. My name is Cody. As I work for Telefonica research in Spain, my name is Greg Andrew. I'm from the US publishing young spanking back. Deutsche Vela. My name is John Pico. I'm working from adoring fans. Hello, I'm my job spheres from University of 20. Hey guys I work for an authentic my name is Walter Costco. I'm working for the German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence, even the piano each and I'm from Queen Mary, University of London, High and Low castels. I work for you I am I am Niko service. I represent a PC. Mesh at project. Working on independent and meaningful media use. Hello.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Good morning, Deutsche Vela declares school's out for today, not for the whole summer. Welcome to Mike. Welcome to the day where practitioners meet academics, meets students. You just saw an intro here of the project that started it all. The project that's called mesh. The project that has come up with some solutions for the topics we will. Addressed today and as we know that we have to compete with the Sun on the beaches and other compelling stuff are we promise no less than a world class field of lecturers that will take you through some of the topics you just saw. My name is Wilfred Honda. I coordinate the innovation projects for Deutsche Vela. Deutsche Vela is, of course, Germany's international public broadcaster. I hope everyone here knows. If you don't know. Please tune in clickdwworld.de is the domain of choice and I will take you through this day together with my colleague here to the right and my name is John Shipping Mac also work for the watch available. So in the innovation project and strategic marketing also very warm. Welcome from my side. Really pleased that you will made it in here on this warm hot summer day and we hope like free to set that. We're going to be entertaining and informative and really make it worthwhile attending. OK, and as that we are talking about multimedia today, multimedia and the media industry at large, we're going to really try to give you full circle of cutting edge new technologies that are already in place and some that are emerging into the into the marketplace. Therefore we have structured the day starting with the keynote. Then we have. Panel on what we perceive to be 360 degrees of journalism. Really trying to capture all the tiny little bits that make a big difference today when looking at various media companies. So and we started off today with bar pretty, but just a few words about the proceedings of today. Like Griffitts said, we're going to have a mixture of lectures, discussions and we also want to involve you Sophie. Three and really do get active, and if you've got all these questions you want to ask the guys of IBM, Google guarding, or whatever, then this is the opportunity to do so before we now kicking into action. Just please allow me one little bit of thank you. The big thanks is come at the very end, but we have to also thank the two people who organized today and this is he's not only on stage today my colleague here with only we've just met now and also margin pink and I who I don't see at the moment. He's back now so they are responsible for. Today and they got all the speakers here so big thank you for that and also very big thank you to one person we always refer to as The Godfather because he makes the impossible possible. He makes it all happen and he's also the one who made today possible and you see him right here. So please give him a big round of applause. Doctor Nico Cyrus from ATC. This is all your sneakers. OK, let's get into action. The first speaker of today is Bart Friedel and he's working for a company you might not know. It's called clear forests, but another company you're probably all using without even being aware of it, and it is writers or Thomson Reuters, who are the ones who are providing lots and lots of news in all forms and formats. We're very happy to have him here. He's been working in various positions in his career. He is currently the CEO of Clear for us and he's going to be talking about a project or service which is called. Kelly Webb and what this is all about how it works. How will revolutionize the world? He's going to tell us.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Now all right, thank you very much and we're delighted to have you here. Thank you. Alright, good morning everybody. Thank you very much for taking the time to listen to me. I'll try to make this interesting and informative to you. As was mentioned earlier, I run a company, a relatively small company. Right now it's about 60 people, someone Israel, some in the United States called clearforest, which is now a part. It has been acquired in June of 2007 by a company. You probably all know, or at least know the brand. The company called Reuters, which a few months later. Merged with another media behemoth called Thompson to create a company called Thomson Reuters and I would like to try to tell you how big it is, but I still don't get it. I'm just not able to understand me being the little startup guy that's used to doing things. You know, quick and dirty and getting product out to the market and trying to make a living now part of a 50,000 person company is something that's still a little bit hard for me to grasp, but in any case I did I did think it was pretty important to start my presentation. And take you through some of what the thinking is at thomsonreuters and what this company actually is, because I think it will be very important in order to understand what makes what makes this. What drives this strategy. This content strategy that I'm going to talk about, and the Kale initiative, which I think is a pretty courageous initiative, not for a little startup but for a company that's really scared of what's happening out there in the media world. And first of all I have to say most of you probably know the Reuters brand through the news piece of Reuters. Reuters is usually referred to as a news agency. At least that's what I thought when I joined that company. And it's true, Reuters news is being consumed by over 1 billion people all over the world every day. But it's very interesting to go in and see that news is actually a pretty small part of Reuters. And I'll tell you in confidence that it doesn't make any money. It's a losing proposition. The way that Reuters and now Thomson Reuters makes its living the way the company stays profitable is by selling information to professionals on the Reuters side. It used to be financial professionals and now with Thomson Reuters. It's other professionals as well. Like lawyers like accountants like doctors and so on and so forth. But it is still very interesting because originally Reuters was a news company. How many people here submit expenses? On their job. How many of you submitted an expense of renting a submarine for three days? I saw it. Reuters Reporter actually submitted an expense for renting a submarine for three days, and other guys submitted expenses for a team of four people that held him hung from a rope for four days because he needed to take some pictures from under some type of bridge in Africa. You see, all sorts of interesting things. These are the flavorful things that we get at Thomson Reuters, but as I said, it's not what makes the company drive. So with that short introduction, I will talk about a very fundamental, very fundamental concept that we use a lot inside Thomson Reuters. We call it intelligent information. You may have heard about it in various manifestations, but I will talk about what it means to us and how it drives the strategy of this particular company. From that I will move over to talk about what we like to think of as content interoperability, what makes content create creates a dialogue amongst different pieces of content and why that's important, and from that I will move on to talk about kale, what it is, why, I think it's pretty courageous and some of the very interesting things that have been done. Since we launched this initiative at the beginning of this year at the beginning of 2008 at the end, and this will also be something that will be available on the website, I'll talk about for anyone that's interested. Kale open Kelly is a free type of service anyone here can use it. You could use it for commercial purposes if you'd like. So if you think you know how to make money off of it, feel free. You're welcome to do that and I will talk about five ways which anyone here may be able to get started in using that service. I'll also need to speak about this is. Always the question though.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
I get when I talk about this. What's in it for Thomson Reuters? Why all of a sudden this kindness of providing all these capabilities for free to the entire world? It's not because you know, we're just good people. There is some pretty solid business thinking behind it as well. The good news is that we think everybody is benefiting, so it makes it pretty easy.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So that will come that will come. Thomson Reuters 50,000 people in the company deployed around the world, about 40% in in in Americas, mostly in North America, 40% in Europe, about 22. 30% in Europe and the rest in Asia. It has some news office in every country in the world, at least one. There are some countries where there are over 33 zero news offices and being global is something that's not to be taken lightly. Truly global, not multinational. The ability to be able to broadcast a piece of news from somewhere in Thailand and make sure it lands on someone that's interested over in New York City in less than 500 milliseconds is being a truly global company Anet.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Technology innovator, at least I was impressed when I first saw it. Pretty easy for Thomson Reuters to talk about who its customers are. It's any professional anywhere in the world you can see here that I'm not going to go through all of this, but if you look at the top 100 United States accounting firms, 99 of them are Thomson Reuters clients. Of the 98 of the top worlds law firms, 98% are customers of Thomson Reuters. Westlaw services. So you can see that it's a pretty deep penetration and a very intense focus on any professional anywhere in the world. It's very interesting to start thinking if there are things that are interesting for lawyers which may be usable by accountants or things that are interesting to traders, which may be usable by lawyers. And the answer is, there are a lot, and it's a real problem to bring them across, which really.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Starts to drive the thinking of what we call intelligent information. And when we talk about intelligent information at Thomson Reuters, the first thing, the first important point to make is that intelligent information does not exist. It does not exist because what makes it intelligent is that it does not address what's available. We have this piece of news. We have this piece of fundamental data. We have this transcript of a lawsuit. What makes it intelligent is that it's an exact fit to what an end user wants to do at any particular point in time. I'm looking to pick a particular bond that could provide me a certain return at this level of risk, and I'm looking for a one year horizon. That's what I want to do. I don't care what's available out there. I want whoever people, machines. Combination to create this piece of information for me that will allow me to do my task very quickly, very efficiently without too many iterations, and so the answer is that this piece of information of intelligent information probably does not exist and we view it at Thomson Reuters as our job to create this piece of intelligent information. And as mentioned earlier, there are at least two very important pillars to allow the building of such intelligent information. One of them is to understand the context. Of the information that's available. What's available? How can I put it together and the other one is what's my? What is my end user all about? Who is this person? What are they trying to do? What is their underlying task? Which is a very important piece of the puzzle as well. Today I will focus on the former and how to find out what the information is all about, how to make it match or click together so as to enable this vision of intelligent information.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And in order to facilitate the discussion, we started discussing what intelligent information is and how we want to address this longer term vision. Most of our heads exploded. It's a pretty complex topic. Different people have very different opinions, and we and we simplified the discussion by breaking the content world into eight pieces really. And this is from our own particular Thomson Reuters perspective. We started out by saying there are four categories of content. There is stuff that we own. We create in Santa inside Thomson Reuters, like Thomson like Reuters news for example. Today, Thomson Reuters licenses content. Depends on how you count, probably from around 1000. Different partners around the world, starting from people that provide data for the London Stock Exchange all the way through all sorts of minor news providers in various areas around the world, we have certain rights to that content, but not all rights. We don't own them. And then there is the big behemoth, right? That what we call the unwashed web huge amounts of content out there. Some of it very reliable, some of it not so reliable that changes depending on who you ask, some people would deem something very reliable with other people. With demons completely unreliable, different levels of quality, multiple languages, some content, very grammatical, some completely ungrammatical. Very, very hard for machine to make sense of. And then there is this 4th secret category. Very, very important for commercial organization. And that's the stuff that hides behind our customers firewall those reports, those emails, those those are collaboration forms that they have that the outside world doesn't see. But if you go and talk to a hedge fund, for example, they would really, really be upset if you are making a proposition where you're not addressing their own internal content. So for them it really needs to click with all the rest. So then you see and then on the column side you see that there are two types of end products or applications that need to benefit from this. There are our own internal own products that we or services that we sell to the outside world, and there are other people that want to create products which we have. We, Thomson Reuters have nothing to do with. That creates 8 little cells and the little starting point needs to be that. If you look at the content in each and everyone of these little cells, it needs to jive together. So when a piece of news talks about Big Blue, I need to be able to make a direct link to any ticker that's relevant to IBM wherever it gets traded all over the world. So I could make that very quickly between a Reporter that talks about Big Blue, AKA IBM and some financial information that's related to IBM. It would be great if I could also directly create some sort of a linkage to intellectual property that's related to IBM that resides in a completely different repository, owned by completely different people inside my own organization, but still very relevant to some financial professionals as an example. It would be even greater if at some point in time I would be able to link all of that information to some blog reference to IBM or two particular aspects of IBM. We think that IBM is making a big mistake by not writing up this particular IP area, or you know, whatever that is and all of a sudden we've made a jump out into the unwashed web world. So it starts out by trying to create to make sure that the content in these little segments our own proprietary content. Our partners content. Sort of speak to one another. Talk the same language. Are able to interoperate, and then the grand vision is making it all talk to one another and all of a sudden you've created information. Transparency information speaks the same language is represented the same way. It's up to the end product or the end service to find out the user experience is to figure out the user experience, which will actually deliver this value of intelligent information. So that's the content landscape. And then. After we had this really nice little visual and a pretty nice interesting way to look at the content world, we started to look at reality. And here's what we discovered an I love this visual and I'll try to explain it to you. The walls is Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters charges a lot of money for people to buy its content, so banks, financial institutions, law firms.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Really pay a lot of money for content that's largely proprietary, it's pretty hard. It's still pretty hard to get in the same level of latency that you get when you pay for Thomson Reuters content. To get that information for free in many of the cases it's impossible, so we call it our walled garden. We have this Wall Garden and we have a lot of you know that's the way we, you know, the Thomson Reuters likes to look at it. We have a lot of this beautiful, expensive high end sort of content, but there is a real problem because look at the music industry, the real life. In real life, people are willing to pay less and less for that content. They're complaining more and more that the content is great, but it doesn't click the link directly to what they want to do. And as you can see, some of the content is starting to climb over the wall, and the reason it's climbing over the wall it really wants to connect with other. Something that's perceived as more great content because it's free, but it's numerous. Huge. It's the unwashed web external world content, and if they could touch one another all of a sudden real value would need to get created. And in this visual is really pretty intense strategic struggle inside this company called Thomson Reuters, where there is sort of an old school. That's saying we are the world we create this content. Everybody still will need that content for years to come, and it's worth a lot of money. And the rebels me being one of them. Saying guys, it's really valuable content people will continue to pay for it, but if it doesn't start to link and shake hands with other world content, it's not going to be very valuable very soon. So here is.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And we're winning. The young school is winning, definitely winning and you. And here you can see the start of an evolution of a strategy. And I promise you. For those of you that want to get more technical and not that technical. But I'm going to shift gears and go into more detail about this kale thing actually is. But Kelly is a code name for a strategy that starts out from an internal strategy at Thomson Reuters. Ultimately, every piece of content inside Thomson Reuters will get calade think of Kelly is this little box. If you are a Reporter. You write up your article, actually write a headline 1st, and then you update your headline and then you write to the initial paragraph of your article. Then you write maybe a few hours later your entire article and article goes through six iterations more or less on average, five or six iterations, and then you submit it to this little box. This little box does a little bit of magic to your article. It doesn't really matter what the magic is. The important point is that the same magic gets done to every piece of content that gets manufactured anywhere Thomson Reuters. So if there is a particular company? That's being referenced in that particular article. It gets marked up in a way that's consistent with any where else that particular company is mentioned through a particular code, if you will. Any instrument security organization person at some point. Although people are a problem and I could talk about that later if you're interested. So internally everything starts to get caladan. That's in process today and then we thought forward and said, well, if we are talking about having the external world being able to shake hands with our content. We actually need to let the external world use that same little magic box called Kale for its own content. And wouldn't it be nice if they start benefiting it from you know themselves because we would like to have any type of we would like to have any blog in the world use that same kale content that we could later grab put into our own Thomson Reuters Pro.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
But if there is no value in using kale for that own particular website for that own particular block, they're never going to use it. They're not going to pay us money for it. So the thinking progressed, and at some point we realized that thing that was really proprietary and secret. That's called kale that we started to use internally. If we are really serious about this, we need to make it available for everybody in order for everybody to embrace it, we need to make it for free, and we really don't need to be stingy about allowing people to make money off of it. So if people. Want to make money off of what they get from this Kelly service? Fine. Make money. We think we will make money at the end as well because we will also have access to that content and be able to match it up or match it with our own internal content so you can see that today when you look on the left hand column for our own proprietary content, we have our proprietary ways which I'll tell you are very very poor of making the data interoperate. We're starting to have more and more of the content get calade get the kale stamp if you will. We're starting to talk to our partners and asking them or encouraging them to submit their content to us through that same kale service and use the results themselves for their own specific purposes. And we've taken the kale services and opened it up to the outside world through a service that we called Open Calais. You could go to open calais.com and you want to view some of you. Anyone here already registered as a developer on open Kelly? Com a couple OK. So it's nice. It's actually pretty cool. Open kelly.com you go provide some minor details. You get a developer passwords and you're plugged into the service, submit content, get it back, get it marked up and start doing your own stuff with it. I'll go and I'll show you that right now the question marks at the bottom are there because that's a very very touchy area. It's not to say that we're now dealing with this area, we are, and there are a lot of discussions about how we take this and superimpose it on our own proprietary customers content. But there would be some people that would be pretty upset at Thomson Reuters if I discussed this piece. Sort of in public, but it is a very important piece. What's being done around customers? Proprietary content. Alright open Calais. I talked about this is a marketing slide right? Everybody wins, everybody is happy. The world is a better place but what is it? Open Kelly is a free markup service for anyone that touches content. Either produces, it aggregates it or serves it up through any type of experience. Submit a piece of content and get it back marked up pretty intelligently and I'm obviously I'm not objective, but at a pretty good level of accuracy and latency. More specifically. The kale, the open Calais service would take any unstructured document. Could be just a textual document and HTML and XML and would basically return it as an RDF with a few separate elements marked up and we like to make the distinction and this is a little bit oversimplified, but I love oversimplification because that's how I understand things. There are really 3.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Levels at which this service would mark up a piece of content. The first one, which is the way most of the world, still thinks about semantics for content, is at the document level. This document is about politics. This document is about finance or even multiple categories. This document is about telecom. This document is about third generation cellular. Some people refer to it as categories. Some people refer to it as classification. Some people refer to it as simply tagging. It's still the way most of the world thinks about metadata. Metadata is something that says something about the entire article or the entire document. There are very interesting data elements inside. Every document and they may not be related to what the document is about at all. They may be something completely separate, which is why in additional to particular topics that are related to the entire article, you'll get various types of entities marked up for you, like people like organizations like geographical elements like all sorts of numeric figures, phone numbers. So on and so forth. And what we like to call context, which really breaks down to two types of elements. We call them facts and events which are basically aggregations of elements. This person entity works for this company entity. In this type of position I've just described an employment fact this person works for this company or credit rating. This rating agency has just rated this company element with this rating and it's an upgrade or downgrade and. An example of an event. Go on the site, you'll see there are dozens of different event does about a dozens of different entity types, many dozens of different fact in event types, you get the marked up for free. You could start doing some pretty interesting things with it.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Kelly Open Kelly is just not. It's not just a web service, but there is a pretty substantial ecosystem that's growing. Around open Calais. First of all there are multiple applications that have been created using this service. Some of them have been created inside Thomson Reuters. I'll show you an example of one that was created by Thomson Reuters person in his free time. He just thought it was fun and he went in. He created something pretty cool but he did it in his free time, not as part of his job and there are multiple element entities around the world, some of them pretty surprising. I'll show you some museum in Australia for example that went ahead and used kale to do some. Pretty interesting. Stuff that we would never think of by ourselves. We have multiple development tools and libraries that are attached to Calais and the team is putting more and more of those out there and various plugins that have been created. For example a WordPress plugin. The second version of which will come up come out in a couple of months. So anyone that blogs inside WordPress has a plug in that they could use for automatically sending the content to Calais, getting it marked up and when they are done that is that piece of content is already caladan ready. To go with the rest of the Cali content. Same for Drupal. IBM UIMA platform as well.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
We went live with this at the beginning of this year. It says already 5700 that number is wrong as of yesterday at 6800 developers have joined. I would say that the number it's a pretty impressive number, but in honesty, about half of those are really active developers. About half are people that just registered, maybe tried, you know one or two documents, but about half are people that submit content and really experimenting with the service, which is pretty nice to see. 500,000 submissions per day into the service over the last. We're being very careful about this. We're being very careful because it Reuters we're taught to be very careful about anything we say. The reality is that for the past two weeks, the average not be averagely the daily transaction rate is over a million already, so it's growing very, very rapidly, and we're facing some pretty interesting scale up and scale out types of challenges. We did two major releases. Another one is coming in in October. And let me show you some of the applications I just. I just chose a sample. By the way, if anyone is interested in really seeing stuff that have been done with open Calais, go to the Gallery section of open calais.com. You'll see pretty interesting examples of stuff stuff that's been done, so Mail and Guardian Online is a South African newspaper. They signed up for Kale and they started to use it to tag their own news and historical articles. Their archives to build an index on topics. So basically they're aggregating topics and they're starting to offer access to news archives through particular topics. They are using the metadata footprint or blueprint of a document in order to offer similarity services, so if they find a document that mentions a list of particular companies and people. And talks about MMA events. Just as an example, they would be able to use that Blueprint in order to offer up other documents which talk about M&A, for example, which would constitute similar in some peoples contexts. The classic mashup different geographical elements with mapping services like Google Maps or what have you. Trying to use the metadata and mesh and put it together with users browsing habits in order to anticipate and offer people a personalized. You may be interested in types of services and also creating tag clouds which is showing people what is popular, what's hot, what's related to what and so on and so forth. Pretty interesting. You could go and see it online there. The next one I chose to show you is the Powerhouse Museum in Sydney, Australia. Apparently I've never been there, but it is the largest museum there. They have huge amount of content that relates to different artifacts that they put on exhibit there and what they've done is they started to submit those write ups to the Calais service and you can see on the right side there still says beta, automatic generated tags cities. Provinces or states countries, continents, people related or mentioned in that particular right, up there by, by the way, allow their users to actually correct the system. So if they think that one of these tags here is completely irrelevant, or just a pure mistake, they allow people to delete it and they start to make some pretty interesting connections. For example, discovering that certain people that they thought were associated to a particular area to a particular set of topics in the museum are actually related to other areas as well. And starting to discover all sorts of interesting connections and sources for going and prospecting for new artifacts. So that's the powerhouse museum. Here's the Reuters guy. This is a guy from the media division that went ahead and created this thing called just, which is basically a topic based news portal where he uses kale, uses it together with with some other things to basically create a portal that aggregates news, multimedia content. Also pictures and video around particular news topics around particular media. Things that are. Top in the media today and allowing people to browse around particular topics. Still very, very raw and there you know the user interface is not there yet, but it's actually pretty interesting to see if you put that aside to see how different elements from wildly differing sources start to come together and really focus on an area of interest versus what's available, which is something that I talked about earlier.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK. Things that we've seen people do with kale and I would challenge everyone of you to think about whether any one of these areas may be interesting for you. Anyone that has access or control of an archive of content that's just sitting there not getting used hardly searchable, let alone matchable with other types of content. Send it through Kelly, see what happens. Some pretty interesting results. I can almost promise you. We've had multiple people and that functionality is there use kale to create microformat data so it's searchable and findable by Yahoo search monkey. For those of you familiar with that. Also pretty interesting. We've seen people take various content sets, send them through kale, and then create an alerting service for their content. So, for example, if I send my content through kale and various management changes get marked up, I mentioned that is an example. Earlier, a management change event that this person moved into this position for this company, I could offer up an alert to people and alert service is just an example. Please Alert me anytime you see a piece of news that mentions and management change. For this list of companies for level VPN up, all of a sudden I could provide filtering services as an alerting service or a personalized learning service. Semantic knowledge discovery. I don't need to expand on that. I think in this forum and. Did you use up? You know, our own, our own toolkit of end user applications for your own particular needs. So if you don't feel like experimenting with the core Kale toolkit, look at some of the applications people have put things out there that you may be able to use as a tool kit to develop your own stuff. Things like browser plugins and so on and so forth at a higher level of abstraction that you may be able to use for your own particular purposes. And as I mentioned, these five with more detail about what can be done. With each of them will be posted on the website and available for anyone.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
That's interested here to use. I'm done, I'll just say that we have pretty pretty big team by now. That's driving this forward. That's continuing to release new tools and applications. Obviously fundamental part of the Cali strategies to partner up with other major content providers and get them on the kale bandwagon. Ultimately, we want everybody to use this, 'cause otherwise it's useless if not at least the vast majority of content will be calade. So we have a dedicated team working on that. Kale connected is a by Invitation program that we're going to kick off next month where we're going to go out proactively to some of the leading web web properties such as leading blogs in areas that we think are interesting, where the data seems to be dependable and quality, and we're going to proactively offer them to join kale and offer in return offer them exposure through some of Thomson Reuters professional products. So we're going to. Allow these people exposure into a pretty interesting and big set of professionals around the world. We're going to put our money where our mouth is. A lot of people asked, well, are you going to make the metadata schema public? The answer is as of a few months ago, we don't know. As of today. Yes, we're going to make it public. It's going to take a few more weeks or maybe a couple of months because there's a fair number of lawyers that are making a lot of money to make sure that nobody is doing the wrong thing here, but we will make it public, so everybody will be able to use it and see it. And obviously we need to expand support for additional languages will start out with the Big Four that are interesting. From our perspective to Thomson Reuters and that means Spanish, French, German and Japanese, and at least initial releases of those will be available before the end of the year. That's it, I'm sorry. I feel like I talk too much. Hopefully this made sense. I'd be happy to answer any questions you at least try and answer any questions you have. Discourse. OK, thank you, bye read or I mean great presentation content. Really good lively as opposed to us all because of the temperature here. I mean if you didn't recognize this is the Mediterranean Agronomic Institute now and we are in the midst of an experiment in greenhouse effect. Here. With that is imposed on us now. Actually there is a water cut in the area. I'm not kidding. Here's water cut. Therefore the air condition does not work properly. There is air moving around, but it's not cold. Sorry for that. We tried. OK, we're trying to cope with that as as best as possible, try to be even more entertaining. So yeah, sorry for that. The authorities are informed. We try to fix it right after the break, but first of all, we have some more questions with Sparky, so if anybody has a shirt to spare, please contact me in the break. Thank you very much back for the really interesting presentation I. Re especially liked your slide with the content trying to climb. Over the wall, so that is also my first question. Like how much content has already climbed over and in the at the end of the day you were saying the sort of knew school or the rebels are winning, but at the end of the day it's all about making money. Yeah, because somebody has to pay the bill. So could you maybe also say something about where the money is when you're profitable? I assume you're not yet. Or are you? And how much? How many more dollars are going to come in? I think I spotted three questions in there. First of all, how much of the content climbed over the fence? It's hard to quantify, but I will say for anyone that's interested, the answer is surprisingly a lot. If you go on reuters.com today. You'll find surprising amounts of data, even numeric fundamental company data that gets offered to the world for free. There is a project out of the media part of Thomson Reuters that's called Spotlight. Just look it up. It will offer you this. This one is limited. It's not for commercial purposes, but it will offer you a pretty substantial chunk of Thomson Reuters content for usage with on your own particular applications for free. It offers again not just news. Also fundamental data like earnings information, profit, you know, cash flow related stuff and so on and so forth, and there's more and more of that. That's getting out there for free where the money is is. Still around two areas which are two areas. Which would be very hard to compete with with it without behemoths like Thomson Reuters. One of the Thomson Reuters has the world's biggest nonmilitary real time network in the world. It is it will get when the US Department of Labor issues, for example, employment statistics, every Reuters terminal anywhere in the world sees that information in 30 milliseconds or less, which is a staggering number. It's unbelievable people are willing to pay a lot of money for that, and they will continue to pay a lot of money for that. That doesn't mean that the only information needs to be US Department of Labor, right? We could start taking and using that capability to deliver other types of information, not necessarily stuff that we create ourselves, which is the idea behind kale here. So the whole real timeliness and latency of information is still somewhere where people are willing to pay a lot of money and will continue to pay a lot of money. Specifically with open Calais, I mentioned the idea that's already starting to happen where we are bringing. We're starting to bring outside information creators into the various Thomson Reuters products. That's interesting because one of the things and I can't say it's formal yet, but it's definitely close in terms of where we are in the discussions. One of the interesting things is we are able to. There is. There is a pretty famous blog called Seeking Alpha. They they talked to they talk about the financial markets. If we are able to bring Seeking Alpha information into some of Thomson Reuters financial products and offer some type of a lead generation capability back to Seeking Alpha from these professionals. So this analyst at Morgan Stanley looked at Seeking Alpha information in conjunction with other things inside. the Reuters terminal decided it was interesting. We've just. Generated a very valuable lead for Seeking Alpha. They would be willing to pay for that. People would be willing to pay for those types of things we've just created the capability to create a premium product inside Thomson Reuters IF we're able to properly mashup and bring outside world data into an existing product. So we're looking at premium products and services that we're able to utilize through opening up kale or looking at selling back to partners. Lead related information. Interest information. Even punching through subscription firewalls and so on and so forth. All of these are valid. It's just a matter of focus and there is in terms of strategy, critical mass that you need to get to before you actually start writing the economics, and if it can ask you another technical questions. Since we have a lot of sort of R&D, people here and technology people. What I mean looking at the semantic world out there searches and stuff. What do you consider? What in your opinion are the main challenges with respect to? Development in their area. One of the main research challenges here. First of all, I think voice is a big uncracked area. I saw in the movie earlier. You know you guys are experimenting with voice to text. I mean it doesn't work, it's just it doesn't work. When you really you really boil. Here's the thing. Ultimately we consume real things through voice. We listen and we see things right. Reading is just a pain, reading takes time. Reading involves still involves paper or computer screen. We can't. We can't read the entire day. We can listen the whole day. We can see the entire day. And so we've been trying to utilize some of these semantic techniques on voice to text sort of content. I gotta say, the results are awful. They are still awful, and we've seen everything under the sun. I think at least most of what's out there. It's a hard not, and I think there's still work to be done there. Specifically. Thomson Reuters is concerned about that, not to, because we have a lot of demand from people you know that want to get real multimedia delivery of, you know, semantic information, and we just can't offer it. It's not there so. We are seeing some progress on image and some video analysis, although it's very, very rudimentary. I think there is a ton of work that needs to get done there. You guys are smiling so it sounds like you have a little secret that you want to share with us. Now. The reason mine is smiling is that quite a number of people in the audience. I involved in research projects dealing exactly or trying to deal with exactly what you were doing and you didn't even tell me what to say so I'm getting it right so I'm getting it right. And Lastly, I do think there is a really. There's still a really big challenge and it's something that we're trying to address internally. We're not going to be able to do it alone. There is still a pretty wide and substantial gap between the unstructured world and the structured world. We're trying to bridge that gap with kale, but still, you know, when you look at structured information repository's and how they get linked to, the more the dirtier, more difficult, unstructured world. There's no, there's still no sound. Standard mashup technique there, and I think that's a real problem area before because before they really come together. Nothing big is going to happen, so thank you very clear message. Do a little power struggle here over the mic. Just one more question from my side before we open this to the to the audience. I mean this afternoon we will discuss things like privacy, data protection and such. Listening to your very compelling, very interesting presentation. One could also perceives it as a. Possible threats. They've seen that there is kind of the little box you sacalait could also become kind of a Trojan horse, not in the sense of doing technical damage, but really I don't want to over stress it but, but extracting personalized data, personal data. How do you do you respond to those kinds of remarks? That's a big question, so but I have a prepared answer because I've had that question before. But we didn't send you the question before, no, no, you didn't know. But this is this is this is this is a hard core issue. This this is so here's my answer first of all. Look an organization like Thomson Reuters. 50,000 people, 13 billion dollars a year in sales. You wouldn't believe the amount of lawyers that work for this organization. It will not do a single thing that will make it liable in terms of infringing ownership or intellectual property rights. It just won't. It won't happen. I mean, it's not worth it, because then you know, the simplest mistake. Someone, especially in the US, where they love to Sue on everything someone comes after the company for hundreds of millions of billions of dollars. They just won't let it happen. So that's the first part of my answer. The second thing is. Everybody has their choice. You can continue to protect your content to death. Keep it yours. Don't let anyone touch it and make sure that anyone that touches it only sees it on paper so they can't copy it. It's a possibility, but the value is only is only going to be limited, so take take a risk because ultimately I think everybody benefits and I think I mean look at the music industry. These guys, the big executives in the music industry. They don't sleep well for five years now for six years now they don't know what's going to happen. And they're still protecting protecting their damn content. There's still worried about, you know intellectual property rights and so on and so forth. I think the world would have been looked a little bit differently if these people weren't, you know, so uptight about it and took a little bit of risk, because ultimately most of the world is not criminals, they just want to do good things. So I think. OK, so now we will open the discussion up to you. So now it's your chance to. Ask those questions you always wanted to ask. My novellus barok open color is a very broad approach to bring meaning to the data on the web. How does it match with the broad approaches of Google? Is Google a partner for you or do you see conflict and and in the end competition? Maybe just to let you know where the questions coming from. It's DPA, the German press agency OK? Yeah, Google is a hard knock. The answer is I don't know. I will say that from what we're seeing. First of all, anytime you talk to someone at Google and we talked to a lot of different parts of Google, anything that we talk about, they always say that they're working on. It's very, very hard to tell what's real and what's not. I think they're telling the truth. I think they are working on it, but there is a really big difference between someone doing their one day a week type of thing at Google looking at a certain topic versus having a team of 200 people dedicated to something so they're working on everything. I think that Google is very, very focused in the sense that they are search centric, their metaphor is findability. We want to make all of the world's information available to people. I haven't seen Google, really. Try to address topics that deal about the deal with presenting information for processing by machines. Ultimately, the model always is serving up information, bringing up different pieces of information, but serving it up to an end user. I haven't seen a whole lot of effort around trying to process that information. Bring it, bring, bring it together, structured and unstructured, and taking the road of creating new information. What I refer to is intelligent information which is synthesized. From raw information, I just haven't seen that. Maybe they are, but I haven't seen that. There is a very interesting underlying we call it Coop Etition because there is an element of competition there, but also an element of cooperation between Thomson Reuters and Google News. There definitely is, but that's not really related to Kelly. Else you could say your name and the company or the organization you're associated with. I'm Linda Hartman. I work for CWI Amsterdam, is a Resource Center. We've been doing a lot of work with Allied French press. Ann news codes and trying to create interfaces for sets of information describing so one of my questions to use more the technical side which the sorry are using to relate all the underlying entities that you're recognizing these texts. We're probably using. I'm not sure about the number, but probably just shy of 50 different thesauri. We have, for example, we have multiple thesauri just for companies that are being used internally at Reuters to do a company disambiguation. The people problem is a really, really hard. Not there are companies that are trying to build a business around disambiguation of people. And the thesauri the notion of the source is also a little bit confusing, because there is a real. There is a real difference on whether. I like to use the word synonyms because ultimately what you want to do is you want to bring together data elements that are deemed equivalent. So let me make your life difficult and share some of the struggles that we're having. Different applications have a different type of. Interpretation for equivalence. I'll give you an example. If there is a mention of George Bush somewhere and somewhere else someone talks about George W Bush, is that the same element? It depends who you ask. If you talk to an intelligence agency, one of those government intelligence agencies, the answer is absolutely no. We want to investigate whether the George Bush mentioned is referring to the father or to the sun, or maybe completely different. George Bush. There's still some investigation that needs to be done before we conclude. Conclude that it's the same person if you talk to a Reuters editor will tell. Yeah, it's the same person who cares. Everybody talks about the president. Nobody cares about the father anymore, right? It's the same person, and that's an interesting thing because we discover. That equivalence and that is the heart of the thesauri, the synonyms equivalents, is subjective, and is up to the application. So when we deal right now, with determining equivalence, even an open Calais, we try to grab some context before we answer that question. So this thesauri are not pre set. We would use a certain thesauri for a particular sort of application in a different one for another one. What you see through the API is still very limited, but it's different equivalence relationships that are used for different types of contexts. And do you have any relationship with the linking Open Data project? Yes, I actually just gave a presentation there a couple of months ago. There are doing some pretty interesting things. I will say one of the criticisms that I have on that initiative is that there's a really big difference. If you have life driving a standard. Versus a standard driving life. And there many of the people are so hung up about just getting the standard right that you know we're all going to be very old by the time the standard actually reaches mature state. And my point is, let's just do stuff and real life will make us converge on a standard, but I like that bunch of people. I think they're doing a good job. Hey anyone else? Khan so this is an here's one. Can I reach that? Hi, I'm Clancy Childs from Google. I had a question. I had a question about what you do with the data it when it's submitted to Calais is that then retained by Thomson Reuters and then use? We don't we don't keep the data. We do keep the resulting metadata but we don't keep the original data. The original data gets completely deleted. What you get back by the way with the market portion of your content is you do get grid. And identify unique Alley identifier that would be matched with that particular piece of information. And if you don't strip it off later on down the road when someone else gets ahold of that grid, they will be able to go back to open Calais and retrieve the metadata that was associated to that particular piece of content. But we don't keep the original content, never. Time for one more. So this will be a final chance. And the key for Dodge Avenger, picking up on the point, the point that you made about the collimator. They just schema when you designed that. Did you get inspiration from somewhere else? I mean, did you look at other standards and found that we can use partially partially used some of that? Or did you find it's actually not what was out there before was insufficient? The answer is the partial yes, but I think largely what we've learned and this is from the the basis of this is from the days that Clearforest was an independent company that actually had to make money and sell to other companies, and so on and so forth. We discovered two things. One of them was that the minute that you start to go too deep on the schema make it too detailed. Sort of if you will impose your own structure on the world, you immediately create resentment because. Different people have different views on how the world should look, so we kept the schema at a very high level, will talk about the notion of a person, but we won't go below that. We won't. We won't try to break it down further. We will talk about we will differentiate a company in an organization company being a commercial entity, an organization, no, but we won't go any lower than that. So we keep the schema at a pretty high and abstract level, and the second part is still not in open Calais, but something that we're dealing with. And if anyone has any suggestions, feel free to send me an email, because we're looking to learn more about that. We understand that at some point we're going to have to open up the actual schema to the world as well to have people contribute their own pieces to the schema and the free market will do its own thing with it. If someone extends the schema to a certain area and it gets embraced and picked up by a large majority of the population, great, it becomes part of the schema. If it's not, it goes after a while. We still haven't figured out how to do that, both technically. And from an experience point of view, so that's something we're thinking about. OK, thank you for your attention. Thank you back. Can I have one more round of applause? For very compelling presentation? Um? Yeah, I think we all can use breath of fresh air. I hope outside.
