The purpose of our presentation is to show some aspects of the macrostructure and microstructure that we have taken into account to represent nouns in the daily in Spanish dictionary. We will demonstrate some aspects that we have taken into account in representing nouns in the daily, namely obtaining a representative sample. Then the microstructure of entries, semantic labels, order of senses, definitions, and examples. We cross these four, and rather surprisingly, here are the numbers, but it's probably easier to see there were only 836 nouns and adjectives that were in all four of those sources. 2380 were in three of the four 3850 three, and two of the four, and surprisingly, actually shockingly, to my mind, 9107 were in just one. We have taken some decisions about the representation of semantic information, such as semantic labels that I limit extensive use of semantic levels to guide users through the various senses of polysemous words. Order of senses establish establishing the criteria for the order of senses is one of the most important decisions in the dialect, in that most of the lexical unit in this project. We are convinced that this approach, in conjunction with the use of semantic levels, should help upper intermediate students to understand the meanings provided by the dictionary better since establishes semantic relation between senses definitions. That definition of the word recipiente container includes use of the indefinite article on. With the Defendum underlined in the first example. If we decide to represent the fact that a word may be used as either a noun or an adjective, and we put that under single headward, then how should we organize the senses? In conclusion, we could say that in the field of Spanish lexicography there are no general Spanish dictionaries originally designed. But we do think it would be more helpful for for learners are next research question, assuming that we come to some conclusion about the semantic versus grammatical criterion is exactly what should be the nature of these of these semantic labels. Brief definitions. I don't have an answer to that yet. So we would like to follow in the lines of what Patrick Hanks did in the new Oxford Dictionary of English, which I mean, I think that's a. Words do I have with these suffixes that I know are typically evnt nouns, and I want to make sure I have some event nouns in this. In example copy export, print an search as we see circled in red and also in the little yellow box. Or taking personal notes. This is the siren version of the Do I, just as in the case of the Saturn version of the drive. They do a by Maria Moliner in the serum version has similar feature to those of the dry and the way I. So this dictionary is meant to be a monolingual learner's dictionary addressed to upper intermediate learners of Spanish, for whom there are many of them around the world. So we first looked at the frequency Dictionary of Spanish by.