Now it's a prediction time. Then we try to rank the candidate functions based on how well they collaborate with the neighborhood of these unclassified proteins. This becomes the zero and this has not effect under collaboration score of Candidate Function FC. The other method is self organizing map. So you already covered the collaboration based function predictions. We have. For example, is 1 meter is how we select the candidate function strategy that one of the parameter in the somd is decreasing learning rate, which is the we have a learning rate and each steps of this time we should decrease that learning rate. So I'm not focus on as use it for the predictions. So in order Department to tune the channel functional strategy in this my methods. Annie Greg access shows the F measures and we can see that if we trying to select the candidate functions from the second function level. Decreasing learning rate switch should be defined as amount of change that happens in the estimates. And yeah, it's a termination criteria. Andy Gregg. Access if measure and we can see that TC equals to 10 produced the best result and. So we tuned above similarity based methods and their collaboration based methods and we want to compare them to be compared them. But there are also some whites or unclassified proteins in these networks that Haskell function predictions in PPI networks is trying to predict the functions of unclassified proteins based on the other informations in the network, we just use the structural information. I try to decrease the collaborations if measures of collaboration methods minus the IF measures of the similarity based methods and we take the average through the three datasets and we can see that for example. So in order to conclude in this presentation, I talk about the function predictions in the PPI networks we get familiar with the similarity based approach. We proposed collaboration based approach. The other one based on the self organizing Maps and we compare the similarity methods with their collaboration methods and we see that 3 to 17% improvements happens in the F measure values. The predicted functions is most common functions among their classified partners. Also that's in this method we first cluster the PPI networks and then we predict the functions of unclassified proteins based on the cluster they belong to. So we already covered the similarity based function predictions in the next section. So we think about the main idea behind the collaboration based function prediction is that we see the biological process as aggregation of each individual's proteins function. We define them as a. Pairs of functions that frequently interface with each others in different interacting proteins. So the first method in their collaboration based function predictions, either reinforcement based function predictions.