[0.0s - 29.0s]
Collaboration based function predictions in protein protein interaction networks. I'm hosting Romani and this is joint work with Hendrick for local and Andreas Bender.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And I think you already familiar with the concept of the protein protein interaction networks. We model the PPI networks that they graph each node in this graph is a proteins on each edge is a interaction between two proteins.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
In this graph we know the functions of some of the proteins. We show their functions with the colors. For example, the transcriptions on teams and other functions. But there are also some whites or unclassified proteins in these networks that Haskell function predictions in PPI networks is trying to predict the functions of unclassified proteins based on the other informations in the network, we just use the structural information.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So in this presentation I first talk about this similarity based function predictions. I should say that most of the previous works are categorized in this similarity based methods and our proposed methods is to change their similarity based methods to collaboration based methods and in the end I will show you some evaluation and comparison between.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
New types of so in the similarity based function prediction methods, the main assumption is interacting proteins have similar functions, so they are trying to optimize this criteria to minimize the number of interacting proteins with no common functions. There are lots of the methods to implement this simple assumptions, among them majority rule and functional clustering are very famous.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Image auriti rules. Now we have an unclassified protein and you want to make the predictions for that. The predicted functions is most common functions among their classified partners. So if you have a network like this with eight proteins and three of them are unclassified, the color for unclassified for each one we examined the classified partners and we see which functions happens most. For example, for this proteins we see that function too. Happens in happens mostly into classified partners. So we assign function #2 to these proteins and we do the same for the other unclassified proteins. So one main problem relevant to majority rule is the link unclassified unclassified proteins between the two unclassified proteins are totally neglected.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The other methods in the area of the similarity based function predictions in the function functional clustering dissident. This methods in their previous presentation. Also that's in this method we first cluster the PPI networks and then we predict the functions of unclassified proteins based on the cluster they belong to. So if you have a network like that, so we first trying to cluster the people Network 23 clusters and then all the proteins in this cluster. Really be assigned a function, right? All the proteins in this cluster will be assigned function blue and we do the same for the other clusters in the PNS.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Books. So we already covered the similarity based function predictions in the next section. I will talk about collaboration based functionality.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So we think about the main idea behind the collaboration based function prediction is that we see the biological process as aggregation of each individual's proteins function. So we assume that topologically close proteins tends to have the collaborative functions not necessary the similar functions, so the problems change to how we define the collaborative functions. We define them as a. Pairs of functions that frequently interface with each others in different interacting proteins. So if two function FI&FJ frequently interface with each others, then we call them as a collaborative functions. We propose to machine learning methods to find their collaborative functions in the pipeline networks. One of them is based on the reinforcement based function predictions. We call it RL in a short and the other one using the neural networks self organizing map. For the function for the extending before, I tried to discuss these two machine learning methods. I just show you some of their representations. We show each protein with the letter P and for each classified protein P we have functions that ASAP and if it's a PDF, I means if the protein AP has a function FI or not and you also for each classified proteins which tried to model the neighborhood of that proteins with the neighborhood function Victorian ABAP. An NA BFG means the number of times that function FG happens in the neighborhood of protein, happy.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So the first method in their collaboration based function predictions, either reinforcement based function predictions. He had a two classified protein apyan. Protein issue. Instead of analyzing the interaction between the protein apyan protein issue, we try to analyze the interaction between the functions that protein Appian functions that are protein accused. So we have a function interaction here in one scenario, so number one we see function FI in one side of the interaction and we see the function FJ in the other side of the interaction. So we try to increase the function collaboration value. Between function FI an function FJ with some reward value will increase their collaboration value. But in other scenario, if we see the function FI in one site and we do not see the function FJ in others like we try to punish the collaboration value between the function FINFJ. So we decrease the collaboration value between two functions. We do this process for all the interactions in the PPI networks and in the end we reach to some collaboration value for each pairs of functions.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Now it's a prediction time. Do you have unclassified protein? And we want to make their predictions for that. First we select some candidate functions to assign to this and classified proteins. Then we try to rank the candidate functions based on how well they collaborate with the neighborhood of these unclassified proteins. This formula simply do what I said it's for his candidate function FC. We trying to calculate the collaboration score and. We do this by summing up how this candidate function FC collaborate with a different function FJ with function collaboration value FHA NFC which this function FJ happens in the neighborhood of processing AP, so if that does not happen to them does not happen in the neighborhood. This becomes the zero and this has not effect under collaboration score of Candidate Function FC. After calculating their score for each candidate function. We're trying to select the highest score candidate function and assign them to the unclassified.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
The other method is self organizing map. Here we use a self organizing map for function predictions. The number of input numbers, the number of outs with no answer call to number of the functions in the domain input, nor I = 2 neighborhood function empty I. So we put the neighborhood in formations in the input layer and Alpha nor I acquired. So if so we put the information about the functional set of protein appear in the output layer returned. Para meters and we used we use it for defined for the function prediction in the prediction time, we have unclassified proteins. We simply find the neighborhood vectors. After that unclassified, you put that in formations. In this in the input layer an output every generate will predict the functions and this figure we can see just for a domain with three functions.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So you already covered the collaboration based function predictions. We want to evaluate these two types of methods. We first talk about the datasets. We have. Lidar methods, people of these methods have some parameter tuning. We do some parameter tuning and then I will compare these methods.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Fair play to the three years data set. Screw gun wandering and the IP core datasets and you can see, for example, the number of proteins and number of interaction for each type of datasets.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
There are lots of parameters that should be tuned in order to get the best result. I just mentioned to some of them. For example, is 1 meter is how we select the candidate function strategy that one of the parameter in the somd is decreasing learning rate, which is the we have a learning rate and each steps of this time we should decrease that learning rate. We have a termination criteria parameter which shows event we should've stopped raining there. So I'm not focus on as use it for the predictions. We define termination criteria as maximum amount of change that happens in the networks and also we have one parameter in the majority rules, the bass majority rule is just considering the first neighborhood level around unclassified proteins, but we trying to do to analyze the more wider neighborhood level, not only the first level neighborhood level but also the second or third neighborhood level. Often the majority rule.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So in order Department to tune the channel functional strategy in this my methods. You can see the X axis is a different channel deck functional strategy. We recruit to select the candidate functions from the all functions or the from the functions which happens in the first level of that proteins or second, third or fourth level. Annie Greg access shows the F measures and we can see that if we trying to select the candidate functions from the second function level. It's produced the best results.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Decreasing learning rate switch should be defined as amount of change that happens in the estimates. For Ogden via stopped raining, there some networks and sorry we are and we can see that the decreasing their next to the 90% is. It's the best result.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
And yeah, it's a termination criteria. An X axis is a termination criteria. Andy Gregg. Access if measure and we can see that TC equals to 10 produced the best result and. Here we can see the parameter tuning of the majore.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Nature rules NFL I means the neighborhood level 1 two or three and we have trying to tune the majority in three data set the krogen wondering and VIP Koran in each. This column shows that Apple considering just the first neighborhood level, second neighborhood level and 3rd neighborhood level, and we can see there is most of the times there is no improvement by considering wider neighbourhood level in the majority rule.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So we tuned above similarity based methods and their collaboration based methods and we want to compare them to be compared them. Views of MIPS functional annotations for comparisons and we compare them in five different functional levels because of protein functions have some structural cleans and for example the function 11.0 two .01 which is R RNA synthesis and function 11.0 two .03. Which is M RNA synthesis are considered to be same up to second level which is 11.02. But when you consider up to third function level they are not similar anymore.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And this figure we compare similarity based methods with the collaboration based methods and five different function levels. X axis is the five different functionals aggressive measures and you can see the the first 2 columns in each functional levels alongside the collaboration methods ESO and Blue One and RL Redbone and yellow and green are for the majority rule and functional clustering methods and we can see in the cruel and data set in almost all the function levels. Collaboration based methods predict functions better than the similarity based.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Methods the patterns is Sam's in their wandering datasets, their collaboration based methods predict function better than the similarity based methods.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And also in the Deep core data set we have.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
The same result. In order to provide you the aggregates overview of the how much the collaboration based methods predict function better than the similarity based methods, I try to four to aggregate those result in each functional level in five functional levels. I try to decrease the collaborations if measures of collaboration methods minus the IF measures of the similarity based methods and we take the average through the three datasets and we can see that for example. In function level, one collaboration based methods outperforms the similarity based methods around the Brown three persons and by going more through from the functional levels I mean more specific function levels. The difference between the collaboration based methods and similarity based methods increases and it's very good acting for our methods because in general methods they are totally a bit same but in a more specific more detailed function levels. We have a very good results.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So in order to conclude in this presentation, I talk about the function predictions in the PPI networks we get familiar with the similarity based approach. Most of the works are done in this category. We proposed collaboration based approach. It was also to machine learning methods. One of them based on the reinforcement learning or badges rewarding and punishing the function interactions. The other one based on the self organizing Maps and we compare the similarity methods with their collaboration methods and we see that 3 to 17% improvements happens in the F measure values.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Thanks for your touch.
