[0.0s - 29.0s]
Today I wanted to present my paper which is about use of recurrent neural network for multi target tracking filtering. Yeah, this is. This is part of a bigger project we do at Cortex Eka. As for target tracking for pedestrian tracking or even satellite images.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So in general, first I want to explain what the problem is that we try to solve multi target tracking. It is essentially an algorithm that removes clutter or false positive data from a sequential data and it has numerous applications in stereo vision. For example when you want to compare the correspondences between pairs of images in radar or LIDAR when you want to find the point scatter data in robotics. Or see mapping or slam and for object tracking and detection as well. For example, just as an example, I put 2 images here that one of them, the one on the left, is on the detector with high false negative rate. It misses a lot of pedestrians. Well when the same detector can be one value kind of vary the decision threshold, you can increase the number of false positives. So if you have a filter you can get rid of those false positive in a way you your. Fixing the ministrat issue. Um?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Some background on the algorithm, so essentially in a Bayes Bayesian filtering algorithm we want to find the posterior probability given the measurements or observed variables and the most commonly used algorithm is common filter and it's extension such as extended common filter on centered common filter to handle nonlinearity and non Goshen behavior information filters which work on the counter cold space or information matrix, the inverse covariance and. Using sparsity, you can you save the sports extended information filter particle filter entirely different approach which is based on Monte Carlo and you can handle nonlinear non Gaussian models and also neural networks such as recurrent neural network with different architectures such as Gru or LSM.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Those methods are mostly single target tracker and they're not that robust if you have very highly cluttered data. So there has been work to handle those issues one way quite sensible way to extend it to multi target tracking filter algorithm is to use random finite sets definition and that changes the Bayesian equation too. The functional integrals and. To what I've shown at the top, which are instead of just vectors, they are now sets random finite sets. But still, even if you use those algorithms, you still have the fixed motion model problem. So if you use that fixed motion model, if you have kind of a noisy detector and very. Complex motion model in the targets. You can't it. That can lead to wrong predictions, and essentially it fails the filtering algorithm and they have the Gaussian assumptions. Still, for example, Goshen, sorry, filter probability hypothesis density completely is based on cautions as well. If instead you want to use a sequential learning algorithm, they will have the problem of. They need to have a separate train test steps which you don't have for generative methods, so that's not really a good advantage. That's a big disadvantage, and the other thing is your data is cluttered and unlabeled. So once you train your learning algorithm using the wrong data, it can result in weaker weaker predictions and also you have variable input sizes. That means your architecture should very honest. Not easy to handle, variable input sizes and also memory management would be an issue.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So considering these problem.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
I've proposed this with propose this solution for this based on this problem of multi target tracking using essentially the whole algorithm is to prepare the state space to be able to. Be usable for analysis TM architecture so that you can learn the motion model instead of using a fixed motion model. As a result of that, and because we're using Alice TM, it can handle nonlinearity and non Gaussian behavior as in the input. And. Yes, and this is to the best of our knowledge is one of the first methods that can handle the data. Very cluttered data for recurrent neural networks.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So the basis of this method is based on the definition of target to pull consisting of four key elements. The first one is a matrix containing the state of that for that particular target. K is A is an integer which contains the age of the target or how much you are. The target is how long the target has been in the scene, and the third element is the genuine genuine iti of the target. So how close it was to the associated measurement. And the last bit is the it's a binary variable which contains which actually say whether the target does have an associated measurement or not. If it doesn't, it frees us or I'll call it F as it the binary variable would be one and it doesn't remove that target. It updates it based on the knowledge that it has from the LCM. So in the prediction step at initially we use an autoencoder, views it as an autoencoder regressor because we don't have any correspondence to update it, so. That's at the first iteration, using this input matrix for each target, and once a model is trained, the knowledge is transferred to the other targets as well so that it reduces the computational time and also memory management as well. Once we perform the prediction at this at the case, this is so the whole block diagram is in one time step, so at the.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
If time step, we obtain the. So we obtain the measurements or observe variables using those. We can find some residual Brandon finite set. And at which here we just used an orc Lydian distance comparison. And this.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Comparison for with all of the NK measurements in MK targets results in a matrix which we use for filtering.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So this is a process. It's actually a data Association solution, and so we use that target mass matrix that we computed in the previous step. Find the minimum alongside the rows and columns and histogram to know how much time the particular target has been associated to a measurement and vice versa. And this is a sort of code in which we can determine whether the target should survive, or is it a death of a target which is a false positive ITI or a birth of a target that it's a new target has been introduced.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
In terms of computational complexity, our data Association algorithm is significantly faster, less less complex than previous methods. Well, compared to Hungarian matching as baseline, it is significantly faster, but also compared to GM PhD filter, which is the fastest Bayesian multi target filter, one of the fastest. And still faster because it's linear complexity. And as you see. And in the end, because all of these are set, we just find the Union of the birth and also survival of the targets to find the target to pose for the next next time step. My experimental result.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So we tested it on a synthetic data, which is quite commonly used in many transaction on signal processing and aerospace papers. It's a it's a publicly available synthetic scenario. So in this kind of experiment, what we see several targets appearing in different times, different time steps and the black dots are the cluttered with person density, functional person mean and we have all the challenges that you face for the kind of target tracking. So for example you have non linear motion and you have dense random clutter and noisy measurement as well. So in this experiment. But they also use a nonlinear measurement spaces, well, measurement to state. It's like a like a radar, so there is assumed that the sensor is in the at the origin and it computes the bearing and range to the targets.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So yeah, this is a result of our algorithm, so. Despite its despite the fact that it's very cluttered scene, as you see, the predictions can still find the correct location of the targets. And this is just a video. Um? So so yeah, to have a quantitative evaluation we use a metric called horsepower, which is again a commonly used metric for filtering algorithm. It has two terms, it's actually a distance between two sets, so one term computes the cardinality difference between two sets to input sets, the other one finds the optimal distance between the sets using, let's say Hungarian matching, which we used here similar for all of the methods. And compared to the PhD first PhD LMB? All of these Bayesian algorithms which use fixed motion model hours perform better, specially in terms of overall support and also localization, which is this term. But in terms of cardinality, this algorithm works better than ours. Here is a visualization in all of the time steps, so hours again on average as you see, perform better in terms of overall horsepower compared to the previous. The other methods. That we compared with.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
In terms of robustness, we increase the mean person mean of the person. Distribution for cluster generation and again, our method relatively maintains a constant behavior even though we increased the clutter to nearly 50 points. And performs in some cases better, better than the other ones.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, my conclusion here. So the algorithm addresses nonlinearity and fixed motion model challenges by learning the motion model as explained. So it's based on a novel definition of target to pull preparing the target space to be used by STM architecture. And also it uses a linearly complex data Association for future work. Of course we need to use it on real data as we actually started, and these are the more recent results that we got from for real data and you can apply to for other applications in.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And to that which sorry. Whoops yeah, and an end to end implementation could be good. We haven't started working on that so it would improve the portability of the algorithm. If you want to use it for other applications. Thank you very much.
