I would like to talk about new trends in public service and citizen communication and my perspective is for my presentation is about how we. First of all, I would like to to address the the citizens because what do their citizens actually expect from the public sector? An other thing is to the citizen's perspective and I would like to talk a little bit about this because this is very crucial for our success. Well, given the expectations from the citizens, how do we effectively meet the needs from the citizens? The one pillow is about digital communication, an it is actually the pillar about. Self service, the other party's new digital welfare technology and it is about robots and all these kind of frontier stuff and the third pillar is about a close Corporation about the digitalization because it is part of the Danish model. I easier when we cooperate very closely and this is what we actually do. We can say that we have a portal called Citizen portal called Board DK and it is the main entrance for these social services and. So and the goal is that 80% of the of the citizens communication. Also, the company is communication with the public sector is is by using Internet. A small introduction to what is this citizen portal? The way we have developed it is this what we call a display window because the portal it doesn't contain all the data it displayed the data. They have the data but we display it on the portal in the portal. For instance, digital signature on the security handling is up here as common components, and then we display the result on the in the display window as we call it, which actually is a collection of components. To to explain that it is not in the domain of the Ministry of Finance is actually Ministry of Trade and. 88% of the citizens that have Internet access or computer and and apart from the elderly people. So this is a very good starting point. What is actually the attitude to serve yourself on the Internet? Then we of course, had to ask the citizens if they would find it relevant to serve themselves on the Internet, and 75% of the population said that they find it relevant. Browsing on a web page at Public Web page and finding information 74% of the population does that. And the elder people don't have high capabilities. 90 but on the other hand, they understanding of the public sector, the content in the public sector, they don't understand what you could call it. They will not do it when we provide things from the public sector.