[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you very much and thank you very much for the invitation to be here. I would like to talk about new trends in public service and citizen communication and my perspective is for my presentation is about how we. How we provide public services by the Internet and this is this is the perspective. First of all I.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
First of all, I would like to to address the the citizens because what do their citizens actually expect from the public sector? One thing is our perspective. An other thing is to the citizen's perspective and I would like to talk a little bit about this because this is very crucial for our success. The second part is that. Well, given the expectations from the citizens, how do we effectively meet the needs from the citizens? And then I would like to address some challenges that have to be handled. Before we can go further, and what is actually our strategy because we have a strategy for the whole public sector in Denmark, and some interesting, I would say in the European context, interesting points in that strategy, and I'll address that as well. And then we have a citizen portal that will play a major role in the self-service concept. And I will give you some some informations about this and then we have time for Q&A. So let's Ann.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
First of all, it is very important to say that we have in Denmark at least, huge penetration of Internet and computers and if we look at the figure here we can see that on the average we have over over an. 88% of the citizens that have Internet access or computer and and apart from the elderly people. This is a very big penetration. So this is a very good starting point. I would say for for self service on the Internet another another starting point.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Is that to say what? What is actually the attitude to serve yourself on the Internet? And we have asked the payroll and 83% actually positive about self-service? And specific. The question was about egovernment services and I would say that this is a very good starting point as well, because if the attitude doesn't support self service then we have no way to go. So this is actually a good result also. Anne.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Then we of course, had to ask the citizens if they would find it relevant to serve themselves on the Internet, and 75% of the population said that they find it relevant. So that's also very important. Some statistics about the population and there.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And actually behavior on the Internet because this is one thing is what they say they will and what they're attitude is. Another thing is what do they actually do? And some figures here says that. Browsing on a web page at Public Web page and finding information 74% of the population does that. Compared to using Internet bank, it is 70%, so this is also interesting that the population find public web pages as a source of information. And if we talk, if we are asking them, do you send information from the website from the public website through the public sector and 60% has says that they have sent information from the website to the public authority, so they have actually done it. And this. To summarize this.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
We can say that that trend as we see here is actually our friend, because the download of application forms and all these kind of things dramatically increasing these years. So I don't expect that they can still be increasing forever and ever. But at least this is this is a good trend, so the readiness in the population for. Key services from the public sector is very high. So and why are we doing this? Is it just because we can do it or is it just because we think it is fun? Or is it just because the IT guys rule?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Bring the world. What is the reason for that? The reason is actually an I'm not an IT guy. I'm an economist and I'm from the Ministry of Finance so I have to say and I am delighted to say that we also have an extremely good business case here and good business case is what counts in this space, with the public deficits and things like that so. And if you compare these transaction cost from different kind of channels then you can see very clearly that that receiving a male or or emails is very expensive and personal service is also expensive compared to E services sub service. That's a huge potential for savings here and our goal is that the annual savings for the whole public sector in. In Denmark, the annual Savings, 2020 would reach about 400 million euros, so it is a big big savings because it is annual savings and it is a good way of saving money. But it requires that 80% of the population move from from personal service to to this Internet services. We have some challenge through.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Where to address? We have some something we have to cope with through and make it as success and to realize the benefit. For instance, we have a paradox here. A paradox that says that the young people are very good at doing Internet. They have high capabilities in it. And the elder people don't have high capabilities. 90 but on the other hand, they understanding of the public sector, the content in the public sector, they don't understand what you could call it. They are not very capable about of the understanding the public sector, on the other hand, the elderly people know the public sector. They have a lot of experience with the public sector. There have been. They had teaching at school, so this is the very paradox that says that I teach have ability isn't sufficient to make people do the Internet service. You have to be very carefully careful about the communication and the way you and the language. The way you address peoples need. So this is a. I think 2 for us to overcome in, especially in designing and in filling in understandable content in the self-service solutions. Another way of.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Looking at it is that you have a certain part of the population that do the Internet and they are happy to do it and they can't think of anything else. So this is the can can they can and they will. Then we have a part of the population. It is not a big part of the population but still about 10% that actually can do the Internet and do it for private purpose but. They will not do it when we provide things from the public sector. They expect simply to have personal services when we're talking about the public sector, it's only 10%, but still it is there and they have to be moved to the will and Ken category. And then we have a category that says, OK, I would like to do it myself. I think it's flexible. I think it's interesting, but I can't do it because I'm not capable. Obviously I haven't done it before, so can you please help me give me some education and we do that. Actually in cooperation with. In several organization, the elderly movement and all this kind of organization, we have concepts of learning and teaching people to to do things with it, and this is the category we have here, and it's 80% of the population that actually have a positive attitude. But they can't do it because they didn't don't have the skills. And then we have a 7. Percent here that is out of reach it is. Some of them don't have Internet, some of them don't have skills and don't can't get their skills because they don't have their their brains to do it. So then we this part of of the population we have to deal with in the ordinary way and give them a good personal service and help them. But it is still only 7%, so we have a huge potential here and we have some different kind of means to cope with this group of people that isn't. That that needs for actually a segmentation. An interesting part of it is also that also the interleave people have all these categories, because some of the elderly people is very capable and some of them are not very capable in it, so so this is a way to make a have a more differentiated approach to the to the. To the case. So given the the.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Readiness and their population, given their good business case, we have formulated an IT strategy covering the whole public sector, the municipality, the regions, and the the, the central government, and the Digitals ready. And it has three pillars. The one pillow is about digital communication, an it is actually the pillar about. Self service, the other party's new digital welfare technology and it is about robots and all these kind of frontier stuff and the third pillar is about a close Corporation about the digitalization because it is part of the Danish model. I would say to have this close Corporation, we are a small country and a lot of things. I easier when we cooperate very closely and this is what we actually do. If we take the national strategy then.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
We can say that we have a portal called Citizen portal called Board DK and it is the main entrance for these social services and. And this is very important here, because this is the very basic infrastructure for providing self services and the second part is that by law we make it mandatory to use our services. That says that if you are capable of using Internet then you have to do the self service. You can't get things done in other. Ways, and this is very interesting because this is, I would say the first country in Europe that says that enforces the citizens to do self-service BI lo. So this is a crucial decision backed up by the former government and the present government, and so it is a broad political support. This idea of there making it mandatory. So and the goal is that 80% of the of the citizens communication. Also, the company is communication with the public sector is is by using Internet. Anne. And we have A at decision at Noah transition plan for four.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
For this same services, starting with the easy one so far, of course, because these ones we have over here, this is the ones with high presentation penetration already. And then we're moving in waves from 2012 to 2015 where we include more and more services, and this is the wave plan for all the mandatory services. So, so it's going to be a great thing when we come to 2050 I think. Enter a make it happen. We have this citizen.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Portal and I will give you a small introduction to this and I have 5 minutes, so that's very good. A small introduction to what is this citizen portal? And what can it do for leveraging leverage of the sub service? First of all we have this.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
San entrance through this to the to self service by the Citizen portal. You can go by Google. You can go by the portal. You can go by their websites from a municipality if you want and then we gather information or give information by this page here about.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Pension. So when you go, you're looking at in Google at pension. And then you go right into the citizen portal here and then you go further to the transaction part of it. And here we have this action site where where you press the button and then you are actually doing yourself service and after that you. Collect the data and get a receipt for the transaction and that you can have as a documentation for for the everything went went right. So this is actually.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
The the model for our portal and it is a very simple model. The portal is going through next week. We are going to. Launch a new version of the portal and. What you can experience there is that we have only maximum three steps to or self service. And you can go right through the Portal 2 self service in one step if you want. But maximum three steps and then you are you are doing some service, so this is a very supporting sub service. End.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
The way we have developed it is this what we call a display window because the portal it doesn't contain all the data it displayed the data. As you can see here from the authorities here ABC and D they have their self service solutions. They have the data but we display it on the portal in the portal. As portal services transforming some other things in this what we call common components. For instance, digital signature on the security handling is up here as common components, and then we display the result on the in the display window as we call it, which actually is a collection of components. So when we do a transaction here in this portal, we only gather data for a split second. And then it is sent to the local authority and it is retrieved the other way around also. So this is the basic principle of the of the portal. Ants.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Why do we have a portal? Our idea is that. Some of you may say it is very old fashioned, but I still think that it is important for people to know where to go. And it is also important to people to be sure that their place will go to as certain security level has certain standards of quality and we have experienced that. A lot of people I have. We're going to have gun control. Use the portal and they have experienced that it was a good good. Anne, Good way of doing it so they come back and our experience for the visits here in in two years is that we have increased the number of visitors almost or more than 70% in the last two years and we have a goal that says that we will increase it. About 100% for the next year, so we are very ambitious, but on the on the other side of the owner, on the other hand, we can see that also here the trend is our friend, so so this is the state of of art here. And then we have a lot of time.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Answer questions. And hopefully answers as well. Tell us some things I'd like to talk about later, but just picking up on one thing on your section of the population that you're not able to reach. I wonder whether the use of mobile, and particularly the web on TV, might be a way to help bridge that gap. What about using the web on TV today? Yes, actually we haven't thought about it, but it could be a way forward an. And some of the people in this group is in prison an honest I Catterick hospital, homeless and you name it and some of them could be reached by, especially the TV I suppose. So that's a good idea to bring home. Yeah, coming back. Service is available on mobile phones or this is just important, not yet. We have a security issue when we're talking about the mobile access, but we're working on it and we have a plan that says that he should be available on mobile mobile devices, also tablets and things like that. Yes. So obviously when you're looking at a mobile when you're looking at other other sections of the community may be purchasing it. People with Accessibility issues. And also just understanding one of the critical things quickly for information is if you open data making available as open data. You didn't mention Overdate. Presentation does not form part of the work. No, it is not a part of the work. We have some. Han considerations about where are the boundaries for open data? Because a lot of the data we have are there in the area we are in in in. An then you have a sensibility data center. A sensitive data. Sorry you have sensitive data and you have privacy aspects as well, so so we have to to find the boundaries about how to make data open here. Generate sure. Where things are, how to get them? You know boundaries? Yeah, officials companies, yeah. I want to say miss you. That's right. And then this data I actually open some of them. If you talk about the statistics we have, it is quite open if you talk about even source codes out in new development things. But talking about all our information, articles and things like that, we export them actually too for the time being to other authorities, but it could. Be open as well, so just pick up. On getting your Ministry of Finance, the Belgian government last week, opinions ask requesting analysis is going to make it possible to make the Belgian Company Register open data, will there? Spanish government, but then things refinements also make IT company West Open data and it is a. To to explain that it is not in the domain of the Ministry of Finance is actually Ministry of Trade and. And companies so so, so I don't know what their policy is in this area, but it I think I would suggest yeah, I think they will see it as an inspiration. You correctly. From most citizens will have to use this services that you provide. And some won't. So how would you decide which ones will not get this additional customer service and which ones will have to learn to use your form through and deal with services? Yes. Introducing payment models to discourage people to use them altogether instead of forbidding it. Yeah, we could have done so, but now we enforce them by law. It is the local authority to make a decision about if the people attending a public service center. No, it would. They would have to meet up in person so to say that they are not able to use it and they're not able to use these things. And then they local authority can permit them to 20 it. To not do it. So this is the way the law is written. Pull off. I actually I was complex when you said that you would actually be enforcing this bylaw because from the data you presented, you seem to be getting very good numbers in citizens using the portal. So why go through this whole trouble of enforcing it by Logan? You're already getting something that's under 74% of people actually using this service altogether. It is so that. And if you look at the statistics in some area, for instance talking about moving, we have now about 50 or 60% talking about getting pension we have in some municipality, about 70%, but in other municipalities we have 5%. So we have a big big divide across the services across the. Areas in the country, and it is a matter of making it a fast, fast, faster print penetration because we have some services that is low low where there is a low penetration in certain areas and it is a matter of how effectively the local authorities work with the channel strategy because some of the local authorities. Don't care about the channel strategy and some of the local authorities. Very keen on on moving citizens to two digital channels so so that's a variety that we can cope with it by enforcing it by law. Demographics understand that maybe if you're talking about variations across services, maybe that is the design and the usability of the specific service that you should also look that's and that's another interesting part, and it is also a question about usability and we're working on this aspect as well, because in some services the usability isn't very good. It is written in a terrible language that is quite. And difficult to understand, so that can explain why we haven't got a very high uptake at in this specific service.
