It is well known that it has been criticised that the English Word Net offers an English bias conceptualization of our world. And the sense of granularity in general is an important point, and we will see all this a little bit later. So this is a good example where the basic data model for English Word Net would have to be improved or changed. Our thought is hints for the human word. And it is not meant as a dictionary as a dictionary. What we may say for sure, it is that it is more complete and more accurate than the information found in many dictionaries. One is the glass in the glass of water and then the other one is. Snow is precipitation and snow is a layer of snowflakes. Officer police officer glossed is a member of the police force. This is the glass I was talking about in English, burn it and then we have a different synset which is. And then the qualitative evaluation is do I want this? I got out of the open multilingual word net to appear in my dictionary entry as an equivalent. Then I rate it OK. Is it an acceptable equivalent? 83% precision means that 83% of the translation equivalents where assist is OK. Now we want them to appear as they are in our dictionary entry. In a word, net in and more advanced word, net data model now feared and goal or horse and Meg are lexical items that may appear in the same since it because they don't know the same thing. Proposes this model with consists of four different attributes, so to say we have contrast in conceptual equivalence and there we may have for values pragmatic contrasts two different values, contrasts and degree of lexicalization. We will speak about language related issues, the famous famous English bias of Wordnet Datamodel. Data models in general and how to use word net data in lexicographical workflows. Conditions it identity in grammatical category identity a number identity and sends identity enregistre identity in countability. Does it work in both translation directions? I didn't find followups on them which is the word net sense clustering using translation similarity. An the language Academy and the Language Institute University. And it makes sense in the case of task to start not only with word net, but also with other NLP lexical resources to draft new bilingual dictionaries. A synthetic lamppost entity in the DBL but not in the Basque Word net. This was the case for example, here in the case of Ardito objective, the part of speech tagger resource told me there is an objective but this was not in Word net so I have to go manually to the English word net and find this objective and. That we that we do for a whole new series of. Treatment of homogamy in Word net. I already pointed out to you that we want to set up this bootstrapping loop for bilingual dictionary production. And as concluding summary, this short list of open questions, yeah. Equivalence is shown before. But if we can of course we have to use the concept. I have been working with Calexico with lexical resources for the Basque language and for Basque. Nowadays we have a lack of bilingual dictionaries. What about all the other lexicographical item types? It links sends us to senses. Ended links senses to lexical items inside the language and across languages. In lemma oriented lexical resources, we have a lemma and word senses. We may link it to other resources we may use. Electrical unit. We may use an entity we call Lympus entity, which is electrical unit with which is a lemma with a part of speech value assigned to it. For linking data.