[0.0s - 29.0s]
I will give now an introductory speech a good morning Seaman. About use and evaluation of word Nets is lexicographical resources.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
This is what I want to speak about. First of all, some basic facts about Wordnet. We don't need too much here because we all know we all know that. And then word net data from a lexicographers POV, yes, various issues will pop up and later in the discussion we may take them or leave them. And give them all less importance. We will speak about language related issues, the famous famous English bias of Wordnet Datamodel. Wordnet glasses is LEXIS dictionary definitions. Lexical semantic relations, represented in Word. Net for the use in dictionaries. Translation equivalents of course. The granularity of senses. Data models in general and how to use word net data in lexicographical workflows. And as a summary, I will provide a short list of open questions.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So as lexicographers, why should we be interested in verdant? First of all, of course, because word Nets exist for many languages. And they are more or less in different extent aligned to the original 1 to the English Word net built in Princeton. Then it is affected that many lexicographical. Portals, projects, platforms use word net data. This is just an incomplete list of dictionary projects that do so, so we may wonder what do we actually find there. Now they use multilingual aligned word net data. And give present this data is dictionary. So what do we find? Yeah, how can we evaluate the quality or the. Yeah, the recall and precision of this lexical data. I think all of you know Babel net, which is a project where Wordnet concepts and Wikipedia concepts are merged. And Martin Benjamin later will present Kamoze project and there are some others that. Whose basic grid of content content grid is based on word NET.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
I have been working with Calexico with lexical resources for the Basque language and for Basque. We liver, somehow paradox situation, but maybe it's not that paradox. Nowadays we have a lack of bilingual dictionaries. We have good bilingual dictionaries only for Spanish, French, English and Russian and all the other ones don't exist or they are just a pocket, something something with pocket thing for tourists, something really small. But on the other hand, we have a quite a nice word net. So why not start with Word net Data's basic grid for drafting content of new bilingual dictionaries? This is the first research question we are working about. The second second one is. What about all the other lexicographical item types? Some of them are linked to limit. Are some of them are linked to word senses. How can we include them in our word net based dictionary draft? And then the third question is. If we manage to have lexicographers working on these Wordnet based dictionary drafts and produce new bilingual dictionaries, how can we get this new lexical knowledge back into the Basque Word net?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So why should we use Wordnet? What is the good thing about it? It's a concept based research resource. It links sends us to senses. Inside the same language and across languages. Ended links senses to lexical items inside the language and across languages. Yeah, I think we all know this. This is a concept equals ugliness and animal. Which is represented by synonyms in different languages, and this is all aligned to each other. So the concept of synonymy we use here is. Alternative lexicalization's for the same concept. They denote the same thing, and by that they are synonyms. Then these concepts are. Are linked to the lexical semantic relations represented in Word net like. For example, the donkey is linked to a hypernym, which is a Queen, and then have to mammal and so on. In Lema or.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
What's what's happening here? In lemma oriented lexical resources, we have a lemma and word senses. And in a concept oriented resource we have concepts and lexicalization. So it's just the other way around.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
This also works with translation equivalents. Now we may say that electrical isation in a different language is synonym, but in another language. So this is the translation equivalent we find. If we use the aligned word net for the dictionary drafting process, this works for all concepts. Represented in wordnet.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So what's the good thing about Wordnet? We may link it to other resources we may use. Electrical unit. We may use an entity we call Lympus entity, which is electrical unit with which is a lemma with a part of speech value assigned to it. Or we even may use the concept, which is a word sense. And link it outside, link it to another object in another resource or whatever we want. So we have 3 levels for linking. Data. For linking data. Very interesting is what the Danish people have already managed to do. They link a whole family of lexical resources, not by lemma, not by a string, but by. Since ID numbers by concepts, so we have this language resource family aligned on concept level and this is what we want for Basque for example.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So what do we find if we use word net data for building dictionaries? He is extraordinary list of drawbacks and pitfalls. It is well known that it has been criticised that the English Word Net offers an English bias conceptualization of our world. Now, if something if a concept has no lexicalization in English, it doesn't appear in Princeton Wordnet. And since the other word Nets or most of them are built from using the English concept grid as starting point. That concept won't exist in the new word net of the other language either. Then the data model of Princeton has some problems for representing linguistic facts of other languages. Then in Word net we have some glasses that describe. Concepts which may use more or less as definition that can be used as definitions in dictionaries. We can use the lexical semantic relations we find there and but we have to ask ourselves whether these relations are precise enough or too precise for further use in dictionaries. The same for translation equivalences. And the sense of granularity in general is an important point, and we will see all this a little bit later. First of all, the English biased data model.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
For example, for Slavic languages, we have no chance. To include to represent the aspect. In the. Standard data model of word net. So for example, in Slovene Word net we find an impact imperfect, if a verb together with the perfect verb in the same sense, it becausw the content of this inset is a translation of the content of the English since it. So this is a good example where the basic data model for English Word Net would have to be improved or changed. For being able to represent. Linguistic data of languages other than English. This is just an example.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The glasses in Wordnet. Our thought is hints for the human word. Net user for disambiguating the census. This is the only purpose. And it is not meant as a dictionary as a dictionary. Definition in the paper of Martin Benjamin. You find some thoughts about that and we will not go in detail about this in this in this moment, but it is an interesting thing to. Yeah, to have research on.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Here we have three word senses of the English horse is represented in the English Word net. It is 3 concepts that are lexicalized with horse. It's the ungulate vertebrate animal which is just men and the gymnastic apparatus. So. If we give together with these word senses of horse in our dictionary, this hyper onomy Hyponymy relationship list. Is it too fine grained or not for human readable dictionaries? What we may say for sure, it is that it is more complete and more accurate than the information found in many dictionaries. The second question would be if it is suitable for the human dictionary user. So maybe we want to adapt this in a way. But as Peterson, the Danish word net developer points out, we find a very fine grained information. The same.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Is true form otonomy. Yeah, here we have two cases. One is the glass in the glass of water and then the other one is. Snow is precipitation and snow is a layer of snowflakes. Both of them are represented explicitly in Word net in most dictionaries you won't find that or if if you find it, it's often. It's not done in a systematical way. in Word. Net it is or it should be represented in a systematical way. Anne. And this so I think, the, uh, what pay doesn't says about the hyper enemy Hyponymy relations is also true form otonomy.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
If we go in detail about synonymy, we have to say that it is not always the same policy. The English word net is following. For example, we have the policeman. Officer police officer glossed is a member of the police force. This is the glass I was talking about in English, burn it and then we have a different synset which is. Uncomplimentary terms for a policeman. This is violate. Somehow they lie was as I was talking about before that it is it's denoting the same thing. Now that the notation is the same. So it should be the same since it. But it does not cause yeah some people at Princeton decided to have two. Since it's now and here we are talking about pragmatic contrasts. Now about register. So in some cases, like policemen register, motivated by register contrasts. Pragmatic contrasts. Since I just split and in other cases it is not look at the other one, which is this methamphetamine thing. There you have synonyms of all kinds of registers in the same sense it. So here for this now, for this pragmatic contrasts of synonyms we have no string, and no, no policy that would be the same overall now. And this is the same concepts in German Open Third Thesaurus where we have register and indicators. Now next to each synonym we have some indicators. For pragmatics that we miss in burden it now if we have them then we have them in the class. So this is somehow messy. Sometimes we find. Pragmatic contrasts inside the same, since I'd since it, and sometimes we won't.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
In Danish, the Danish example is to show that we have. The policeman in all registers inside the same since set and this inset is linked to two English since it's now, so it's in the end. It is messy. This issue is a problem. About the translation equivalents, we can say we can speak a lot. We all know open multilingual Wordnet by Bond and others. Where they use Princeton Wordnet. Synsets is basic grid now, whereas pivot sense grid. This is being developed further towards an English independent sense repository, which is the global Wordnet grid. I think later we will hear something about that which is the basic difference is that the new sense grid allows allows the existence of concepts that have no lexicalization in English. So if I have in my language 20 different hyponym ease of snow, I can represent them in my. In read word, net or whatever I want, I don't have to wait until in Princeton. Somebody allows it. If we use the existing open multilingual word net, we can easily produce dictionary drafts for non existent. Bilingual dictionaries. Technically, this is very easy. We have done some quantitative and qualitative evaluation of these dictionary drafts. So the quantitative evaluation is that we compare this dictionary draft to an initial lemma list. We have a working language. We have done this for Basque, German and English. And then the qualitative evaluation is do I want this? This translation equivalent? I got out of the open multilingual word net to appear in my dictionary entry as an equivalent. Then I rate it OK. Is it an acceptable equivalent? But does it need some manual editing? Then I rated fuzzy and is it just noise or inadequate from my dictionary, project venerated files this we have done for.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Several combinations. And we measured yeah, this with quite encouraging results. I would say for German bus where we use this gamonet which is not in the open multilingual Wordnet but is the best word net for German. 83% precision means that 83% of the translation equivalents where assist is OK. Now we want them to appear as they are in our dictionary entry. And for Basque English we did the same with 89% precision. And then there's some students at her design. Rated Some SS, some other combinations, and here we see quite a difference is now. For example, this French word. Net. This Wolf is automatically built, so it contains more noise now. It's no surprise, but of course if we want to produce dictionaries, we have to be aware that there is this noise now and how much noise. And if we would go back to the list. Of dictionary platforms that use open multilingual Wordnet data where we also find this noise. So this is this is a effect to have in mind.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
But we want to go a step further. We don't don't want just to assess the quality of the translation equivalence. We want something more fine grained. Yeah, here we see that it is not the same. Yeah, we want this pragmatic contrast to be part of the evaluation and then we want also want to be able to represent it. In a word, net in and more advanced word, net data model now feared and goal or horse and Meg are lexical items that may appear in the same since it because they don't know the same thing. But there is this pragmatic contrast neck. For example, I find in sentence in phrases like a lame old nag now. So it is marked. Nick is more close to goal than the Fiat of course, but in horses is. Absolutely equivalent to fair and horses. Yeah, more acceptable to translate with Goulon more context. I will find translation Cole then feared and neck. So how do how do I evaluate this and how do I represent this in a word? Net data model we will look at three different approaches for approaches of typology's of translation equivalents. Which are these three? Max 2007 Adams car and rudeness car.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
End of us. First of all, Max 2007 for the Amby project. Proposes this model with consists of four different attributes, so to say we have contrast in conceptual equivalence and there we may have for values pragmatic contrasts two different values, contrasts and degree of lexicalization. Is it an established lexical unit? Is it an explanatory equivalent? This is what we often find in Word, and it's to know if the lexicographer in charge of translate content office in set. Doesn't find something. Something with this doesn't find an established lexical unit of their language. They may put in this. Put in an Explorer Explanitory equivalent, and then the status of the variety. This is like terminology now. Is it a preferred term or is it just a varient? So Max proposes these four attributes and values?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Adams car proposes something similar. Yeah, we have type C equivalents. We have type E equivalents. Explanatory type T translational and type F functional. This would be also interesting to try to represent. Yeah is description of a translation link now.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And maybe the most yeah usable is this proposal by Route Niska and Piasecki 2, which is the so called super strong equivalence. What is this super strong equivalent? It is an item that is linked to another item and fulfills these 10. Conditions it identity in grammatical category identity a number identity and sends identity enregistre identity in countability. Identity in contact compatibility, compatibility in semantic gender. Is it a first choice equivalent? Does it work in both translation directions? Then the 9th criterion is high translation probability at does it appear in parallel corpora and then the 10th is? Is it the unique translation for a single lexical unit? So do I have monogamist items on both sides of the language border? So this I think is very straightforward and can be represented by neroli. Now I have translation link between item one and two and then 10 criteria and I mark. Fulfilled does not fulfill now so. This could be a good approach for for an advanced data model that includes. This translation equivalent fuzziness now and describes it in 10 different. Layers.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Then we have to talk about sense granularity. This is an example from the password net, which is a translation of the English word net. In the English word net we have fine grained sensors. Now this is what we hear off very often and it is true. For example there are 123455 different hypernyms of reveille, revalee, noisy partying, which is hypernym of merrymaking boisterous celebration. Well you'll see it's very fine grained right? And the past translator. Didn't know. To put something different so they just translated the same way, with the hypernym. Now, so this is called the auto hyponymy problem. And in the building process of password net, this was something usual. Now that people didn't find something that fine grained in their language. So this is one problem, the auto hyponymy problem, But the other one is do we actually want to show in our dictionary a dictionary we built out of word net sensors that are that fine grained? Or don't we want to? Do we want to merge them in a way? Do we want to have candidates for sense merging?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And there are some approaches that are a bit. Yeah, that like 15 years old or something. I didn't find followups on them which is the word net sense clustering using translation similarity. So if I find I go back items translated the same way. Maybe not only in one language, but in more languages like here, then they are candidates for cluster for a sense cluster and this is I think this is not only interesting for dictionary building purposes but also for computational tasks. But here you see how this works now, if the financial Institute and the bank building and the supply and reserve banks translated the same way across languages. Then this will be a candidate for a sense cluster and it can be for example, in data presentation of a dictionary. Be a first first level sense distinction off sends one. I have all these. And they have substances or something you know, so I can group census in clusters using translation similarity across word Nets is very interesting, I think.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
I will come back to the past language now. As I've said, we have very, very good word net. We have also other lexical resources that are machine readable and meant for NLP purposes for busk and on the other hand, we have lexicography, which is this traditional lexicography, which is done in the Faculty of Arts, and nobody knows the people from the informatics faculty now, so it's two is the landscape is divided. I think this is the situation we find. Still find in many languages. An the language Academy and the Language Institute University. They do lexicography and then the other two places they do NLP only at Albury are the two worlds come together well. What I want to say is that. And it makes sense in the case of task to start not only with word net, but also with other NLP lexical resources to draft new bilingual dictionaries. And for that first we have a build bask lemma list. A corpus based frequency lemma list and we have checked where these items appear. Now these are the major bus from for Basque major dictionaries. The grey part is the part of the lemma list that appears there, and this upper part is limited in the dictionary that don't appear in the corpora, so this is the historical dictionary and this is password net and this EBL is the. Bask lexical resource that is used for the part of speech tagger in the Spell checker and all this yeah, so this is what we use.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
As for the bus dictionary draft on Homograph level, as we call it, yeah we have this lemma sign or homograph at the two forty 42,000 times in the corpus. Anne.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And then on the next level.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
We paste into this the limpos entities we have in the DBL which is. A verb, a noun and an adjective. With that correspond to the lemma sign at the two. Yeah, in English I usually have this too. Now in many cases I have sound, noun, verb, adjective. So in baskets to the same. On the next level.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
I paste the word net senses into the right place there. So I have now. Sense sense ID's. For all the limpos entities that corresponds to a D2, right? So this is my basic dictionary buffer, Basque, and of course I have. I always have the Princeton word net link because the password and it is built out of the Princeton.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Converting it. So this basic dictionary draft is quite OK. I think, no, it's a lot of items. So if I don't have anything for a new language combination, let's say Basque Slovene, why not? I have quite a lot of data. I would have a look at what is the intersection of this with the with the Slovene Word net, but it's something like 25,000, so it's quite big.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
What do I do if I have? A synthetic lamppost entity in the DBL but not in the Basque Word net. This was the case for example, here in the case of Ardito objective, the part of speech tagger resource told me there is an objective but this was not in Word net so I have to go manually to the English word net and find this objective and. Paste it in here so this is the first step of post processing my botnet based dictionary draft by hand.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
The second step is. If for a limpos entity in the past dictionaries I have a sense that is not in the Basque Word net, I have to fill that gap too, As for example in this this Aadhar is in English horn I have a seventh sense of this item which is the shoe horn that was not in the Basque word net. Well actually it was there but not with this lexicalization. So I have to fill this gap manually. Yeah. And this is what I'm proposing.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
That we that we do for a whole new series of. Bilingual dictionaries with Basque We would have the basic the basic dictionary draft and here have something working on Basque Italian here. Have something working on Basque Slovene and then find a way to get all this data back into the password net. No, if so, if somebody finds it fills a gap splits, ascends, merges a sense, does something. This has to be sent back. To the basket to the original resources used for the graphic drafting process. So we call this the bootstrapping loop. This the idea we have in mind.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Yeah, I told you we had some some experiments with Basque Slovene. We have measured the intersection so. We have 20% coverage of our bus Clima list, which is not a lot, but we have done another measurement. Another test with using paper net which is bigger than word net and we have more coverage. We have 31% and what we found is that the precision doesn't significantly fall down, so we have good results for labor net.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
And then briefly, we can point out how we want to. Yeah, follow the Danish example and link pass Calexico resources together. Now the best option is to use the concept. Of course this is the world today. Now we have existing bars, dictionaries we have lemma signs and we have Olympus entities that we may use for linking. But we don't link anything at the moment and then we have the password net which is linked to this. Semantically annotated corpus in Basque and to the open, multilingual word, net, of course.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
And then we would like. To link the Busca dictionaries. By lexical unit is always possible now, but it would be better to use the concept of course to use I mean by Limpos entity is always possible, but it is better to use the the word sense ID is our Danish colleagues have done.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
So this is again the three levels we may link data to invert, and it is. The concept is the lexical units that represent the concept. And it's the Olympus entity which is in the case of polysemy linked to two different lexical units. Now electric unit is a unique word sense now, so at least.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
3 levels we may link other lexicographical item types. Two, this is what we want. Now. This is the list from vegan to lexicographical item types. Now it's a lot. It's a lot of item types. We want to link. To these three levels now in each case it will be a different level. But this would be like, yeah, the best scenario not to have all these item types linked. To the basic birdnet data model. Then there is a problem.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And we have to be aware of.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Treatment of homogamy in Word net. Now in the English word net. Tia and tear, which are items that in all English dictionaries, will be treated as a monomer homonyms not as polygamous items of the same lemma are treated. As if it is, if it were polysemy, yeah, they appear. If you look for tier they appear they appear both. If you look for, you don't know if you look for Tia or if you look for terror because you look for TAR, right? And there's no distinction. So if we want to have something like like there, like on the right side where this homonymy distinction is set, we would have to duplicate. The Olympus entity. Now we would have to have two lympus entities of this error 2. Two entities with the same lemma sign in with the same part of speech. Under this, under the Homograph which is something we don't have today. Another question is, do we want that? Do we need that? But As for today dictionaries want that as we see there for English, usually it's phonetics. Now as a criterion. But in other languages, other criteria. In Basque we have 5% homonyms, so it's a big big issue.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Yeah, this is this always. I already pointed out to you that we want to set up this bootstrapping loop for bilingual dictionary production. And as concluding summary, this short list of open questions, yeah. How do we get to an advanced data model where we can represent types of translation? Equivalence is shown before. How can we include more lexicographic item types? At what level do we link them and how do we? How do we represent that? What yeah, how do we do it? I think later we will hear interesting approaches to that. Then we have the Honami problem. And yeah. We always can link lexical resources of different shape using lemmata. But if we can of course we have to use the concept. When is the next point? How can we improve evaluation process is of Wordnet based dictionary drafts. This basic approach I have presented, but we want to go further with it. And how can we somehow standardize lexicographic workflows that? Start with word net based. Dictionary drafts this workshop has, yeah, the aim of this workshop is to create.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Some training material just for that. Yeah, and this is what all what I wanted to say is introduction and thanks for your. Attention. And yeah, I don't know if you want to comment something.
