What I'm going to present is the outcomes of a European Union funded research project that is called also Kiwi Kiwi was standing for knowledge in a wiki, but we changed the focus of it and it's now a platform for building semantic social media applications. But it's also like an empty piece of paper, so it's well suited for creative tasks. It's just like having an empty piece of paper and then you start writing on it and no one would actually feel his tax return on an empty piece of paper. And the reason was to support the user. Here for the rescue comes the semantic web because it adds former in machine readable meaning to the web. And since the wiki is a small web, it also can add forming machine readable semantics to a wiki on a first glance, it really looks like which it structures. Have machine readable linking of content. We can adapt the presentation of the input to personal preferences to the context to different kinds of content. So you're going to build the next semantic Web killer application. Why not build it on top of killing? It has unified access to content and meta data. It has semantic tagging, which is also very powerful feature. It goes much beyond ordinary tagging. It has information extraction. Application areas that we envision enterprise knowledge management is one that I had demonstrated. You can also build public social media applications if you want to. So knowledge management knowledge management is at least from a technical point of view, you have a lot of different kinds of resources which content you have media content. There's a lot of user in domain specific workflows, so every company has different workflows. Every domain, especially his different workflows, and it's about sharing of content in color. So thanks to the key team, it's a lot of people behind it. You can even get the demo and if you're interested in collaboration and you happen to be located in Austria, there's also the opportunity to join Salzburg new Media Lab. And traditionally, knowledge management is something that is considered to be knowledge acquisition systems. But it's meant to make people replaceable. Make it easy because the more people know your idea, the more powerful it becomes. They are already successful in sharing now in companies also, especially in the technology domain. While wikis wikis are simple to use, there's a low technological barrier. You can even write a book in a wiki. So you can see a wiki essentially like a piece of paper, so you can write on it. So there's only workflows by social convention. No define know defined workflows by the system, but there are rules, but it's possible to deviate if you think it's necessary.