The course design of the program focused on authentic active learning experiences. Content was organized in the form of activities, activities that facilitated community interaction. Emphasis was on creating, discussing and reflecting built in discussion forum was there on every page and block pages were used to feature work and encourage collaboration and peer feedback. This is the first page of module one, so it started with. My project is titled it is on Training Program on use of O ER in teaching and learning. My mentors are professor, Doctor Sudha, Comet member, national Education Policy Committee and former vice Chancellor SND T Mumbai University Women's University, Mumbai. Doctor Jayshree, Xindi director, Department of Educational Technology, SND T Women's University, Mumbai. This is the course creation available. The learning management system it unabled situating learning experiences in an application problem or scenario. The learning experience within this situation with inoperable provided an opportunity for experimentation and it encouraged reflection on these experiences and guiding these reflections into meaningful concepts and promoting the use of this new knowledge to make decisions or to solve problems in meaningful ways. Two dropped out because of personal reasons, 13 students. 13 participants completed the program and 10 could not complete it because we were having that term and examination. The starting point for the project was it all started as an idea which took shape with the help of the ER for a better word program. I was very much confused about it about the elements to be used. The main driving force behind this project was obviously are for a bit of a better word mentoring program. Discussions with the mentors helped in clearing all my doubts, suggestions and feedback help in correcting errors, advice and counsel helped in development and implementation of the proposed program. Now open educational resources are the most promising development for enhancing access to educational opportunities. It aims to make the quality content available for free use. However, it is often found that there is a lack of awareness about open educational resources among the faculty and also there is a lack of awareness about use of Creative Commons licenses. So as far as my future plans school, I want to take this project further. And I know other plan is to offer programs to educators in all open universities in India, develop an advanced level course or program and we are using developer for educators. Since this is only a beginner level program. Bring all projects at one place and this will give a starting point to all the participants. Better coordination with the participants and their mentors, and create a community of practitioners and developers with engagement opportunities offline and online, so this is all from my side. The main objectives of the online training program were to create awareness about the use of. Promote the use of we are in designing new courses in the universities and unable the faculty members of higher education institutions to use an integrate VR into their teaching practices. Learning outcomes to explain the basics of open education and open educational resources discuss various aspects of various issues related to Copyright. Distinguish between different types of Creative Commons licenses. The target group of the program included teachers, trainers, training managers, instructional designers, anchos developers in schools, colleges and universities. The course was initially in the first stage, was offered to all teachers and Akademik Savignon. There was sequential progression from one module to another. Progress in the module was on the basis of completion. Posting messages commence in discussion forum, feedback on peer comments. Support was provided through phone, email, WhatsApp and inbuilt chat. The course had six modules, an introduction to open education and O ER module two was an over licensing and Copyright Module 3 on Creative Commons licensing model for user.