[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello everyone. I'll be presenting on my project under the Open Education for a better work, better Word Mentoring program.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
First of all, an overview of the presentation. I'll be starting with a brief introduction about the project motivation goals of the project, learning outcomes, Target audience, course content, materials used, course design, course delivery, statistiques how the program was developed, role of O ER for better word and mentors, future plans and suggestions.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
My project is titled it is on Training Program on use of O ER in teaching and learning. My mentors are professor, Doctor Sudha, Comet member, national Education Policy Committee and former vice Chancellor SND T Mumbai University Women's University, Mumbai. Doctor Jayshree, Xindi director, Department of Educational Technology, SND T Women's University, Mumbai. There is this link to the course.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The mean? Now open educational resources are the most promising development for enhancing access to educational opportunities. And it makes quality. It aims to make the quality content available for free use. However, it is often found that there is a lack of awareness about open educational resources among the faculty and also there is a lack of awareness about use of Creative Commons licenses. So need was felt for promoting the use of O ER among the educators.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The main objectives of the online training program were to create awareness about the use of. We are in teaching learning. Promote the use of we are in designing new courses in the universities and unable the faculty members of higher education institutions to use an integrate VR into their teaching practices.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Learning outcomes to explain the basics of open education and open educational resources discuss various aspects of various issues related to Copyright. Distinguish between different types of Creative Commons licenses. Identify different types of OE are available to meet the varied learning requirements. Consider various aspects of use of. We are in teaching, learning, search and locate. We are an user to an instructional material attribute or CC licensed. We are.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The target group of the program included teachers, trainers, training managers, instructional designers, anchos developers in schools, colleges and universities. The course was initially in the first stage, was offered to all teachers and Akademik Savignon. Our total of 20 to 25 participants were taken in the first batch, the participants were supposed to have a reasonable expertise in using ICT tools as the course was based on online tasks as the course involved use of. Online tasks and activities.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Some of the details of regarding the course class size was 2225 participants. It was a one credit program. Equaling equal to 30 hours of study session was planned for seven to 10 days. There was sequential progression from one module to another. Progress in the module was on the basis of completion. Of all the activities on the page and other things other features were watching of videos. Posting messages commence in discussion forum, feedback on peer comments. All these counted towards progression assessment in the form of quiz. Two quiz components were there. Support was provided through phone, email, WhatsApp and inbuilt chat.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The course had six modules, an introduction to open education and O ER module two was an over licensing and Copyright Module 3 on Creative Commons licensing model for user. For your instruction modifies searching and locating ovr an module 6 attributing a CC license to ER. This is.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
How the modules appeared on the LMS?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
This is a detail about content outline module. One had five components. Module two had four components, an module, three had two components and after that we had a quiz.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Module four had five components. Module Five had 66 components.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And in total we had 29 components to be completed.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
The materials which were used included text documents in PDF format, videos from YouTube and most of these videos were CC licensed video images and graphics quizzes survey.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
The course design of the program focused on authentic active learning experiences. Content was organized in the form of activities, activities that facilitated community interaction. Emphasis was on creating, discussing and reflecting built in discussion forum was there on every page and block pages were used to feature work and encourage collaboration and peer feedback.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
This is the main of course page.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
This is the main page of the module 1.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
This is the first page of module one, so it started with. What is your conception of open education resources. So just to give them an initiation of what is to follow and make them reflect.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
The course was offered on an online learning platform open learning. The main focus of program delivery was an active learning connectedness, student engagement and collaborative learning.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
The main features of online learning platform work, course creation, student progress Tracking assessment certification. Mobile learning is synchronous, self paced, learning, discussion forums and blogs.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
This is the main course page of other auto. Put it as administrative page for course creation.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
This is the course creation available. You can have. There was a visit you have general how to set up the appearance and content. You can form groups and also a community and decide roles for the facilitator and the students.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
The student progress is our tracking. Had like you could invite students, set a timeline for the modules and have a look at the progress of the students.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
This is the discussion forum.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
The block which was miss mostly used for announcements, an interaction.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The quiz component.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
The learning management system it unabled situating learning experiences in an application problem or scenario. The learning experience within this situation with inoperable provided an opportunity for experimentation and it encouraged reflection on these experiences and guiding these reflections into meaningful concepts and promoting the use of this new knowledge to make decisions or to solve problems in meaningful ways. Because there was no lectures included in the course.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
There were 25 students who registered for the program. Two dropped out because of personal reasons, 13 students. 13 participants completed the program and 10 could not complete it because we were having that term and examination. Which goes on for one month. So because of the exam related duties, they could not complete it, though they were very much interested.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
The starting point for the project was it all started as an idea which took shape with the help of the ER for a better word program. I got a opportunity to complete it to work on it and the main challenges which were there was the hosting of the course website. I was not very sure about it. I was very much confused about it about the elements to be used. Offering the program accreditation and time constraints.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
The main driving force behind this project was obviously are for a bit of a better word mentoring program. I got direction for the proposed program and course and the mentors they their guidance and support helped me in giving final shape to my idea. Discussions with the mentors helped in clearing all my doubts, suggestions and feedback help in correcting errors, advice and counsel helped in development and implementation of the proposed program. Inputs from the mentors helped in planning and achieving the. Targets.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So as far as my future plans school, I want to take this project further. The next batch is scheduled for July because when we made a call for the registrations we had mentioned that will be taking 25 participants only, but we received 50 interests. So we'll be giving chance to the others also. And I know other plan is to offer programs to educators in all open universities in India, develop an advanced level course or program and we are using developer for educators. Since this is only a beginner level program. And develop a basic program for students.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Some of the suggestions are, if possible, please develop a pro portal for offering programs. Bring all projects at one place and this will give a starting point to all the participants. Better coordination with the participants and their mentors, and create a community of practitioners and developers with engagement opportunities offline and online, so this is all from my side. Thank you so much.
