And of course visions and strategies on national levels, so I would like to. Integrate your policies and integrate our task forces to build task force for the integral going Slovenia and I'm offering the opportunity to all of you to continue our discussion with Professor Lesson. Practical examples of the green economy of the integral economy and some text. Uh, the that already to certain extent integral, it was their strategy for the transition of Slovenia to allow to a low carbon society by. Integrating this concept we can see in the Slovenians development strategy that we have this elements already means green knowledge inclusive society intrapreneurship effective public sector and the rule of law. Implemented by 2014 two 1015 something like that. We spoke about Slovenian industrial policy. We have corporate social responsibility as one of the 10 elements for improving the business environment. Here so I have put this coping courage in corporate social responsibility in the center. If we compare this model with the model of strategy, we can see that this is already operational. OK, we we Slovenian industrial policy. Innovation policy, but it is based on challenges that environmental energy challenge and efficient use of natural resources based on sustainable production and consumption, sustainable mobility, food, health and aging, population and potential of key enabling technologies and then superiority technology areas. Analyzing it is so child score with emphasis on sustainable tourism. Building on cultural and natural heritage, which is of course very rich protected areas. My integral pass is closely connected to this holistic vision of a low carbon future for Slovenia. As many of you know already, so several opportunities for green green economy with integrated policy areas. These are values of sustainable development. Although we don't act always sustainably, and then I found in a book by Violeta Bulls about this conscious, enlightened, holistic individuals and organizations, this is vision for 2050. That only spoke about this unleashing of Slovenia's own moral economic call and.