[0.0s - 29.0s]
I'm very happy to be today with you. I believe this is a historic moment for Slovenia. And I had this in case I got approximately 2 years ago this incredible opportunity to cooperate directly with Professor Lesson and Doctor Shiva. In this start, working on ideas for Integral Pass for Slovenia there. Many project that are going on I believe they are integral. Project already. And of course visions and strategies on national levels, so I would like to. Support the invitation of Professor lesson to start building our own economic integral economic model. To show that we have so many elements so many networks that are already working in the integral directions and that we can build on. EU policies we can be smart. Integrate your policies and integrate our task forces to build task force for the integral going Slovenia and I'm offering the opportunity to all of you to continue our discussion with Professor Lesson. Also, after lunch in the afternoon. Although I don't have at the moment the meeting in the conference room available, so we should look for it. So we can start building Taskforce start. Preparing operational projects. Plans for studies also on international level and we can start today in the afternoon so. I. Could speak for another hour about my own integral pass. Of course we don't have time for that. You can find many information on my own website that I started approximately one year ago to promote this integral theory integral words approach. And you can also find on this website list of useful links to study. Practical examples of the green economy of the integral economy and some text. Shorter texts on integral economics. And. Some of my presentations and papers that he would have been published during last year or year and a half.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
As I said, I'm proposing. To start with the documents we already have. Uh, the that already to certain extent integral, it was their strategy for the transition of Slovenia to allow to a low carbon society by. 1050 we have to start with Slovenia's industrial policy that has already been adopted by the government in February this year, and we have several drafts for Slovenia's development strategy and operational Focus Program folder 2014 for 2020. We can work on the concepts that are approved, adopted also by by the European Union green economy. Social entrepreneurship and social responsibility. To start with, the model code of our model.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
As I said. My integral pass is closely connected to this holistic vision of a low carbon future for Slovenia. You can find the paper on this on my website and I presented it on the invitation of Professor Mulay and the Air Door confidence in March last year. This was the first public presentation of.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Ideas to build integral? Slovenia integrating Slovenia here. You can see some. Some elements of their strategy, local bone dust strategy with the vision and SWAT. Incorporating several integral elements, the concept of sustainable development and of course. Always director, Mr. Yellowness treaty, who I am happy to say he's really integral single in practitioner for sustainable development.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
These are elements approaches of our strategy. I will continue becausw.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
As many of you know already, so several opportunities for green green economy with integrated policy areas. So we have started this integration already through this. Local burn strategy. With in a with a broader framework of sustainable development.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And I would like to show you also how was help with the help of Lonely and Alexander I. Analyzed this elements of. Integral elements after a low carbon strategy with nature community. Emphasis culture. And International Development. Sustainable food and energy. Chance, and so on, of course, knowledge. And and finance an end up I see. In August 2011, I got the opportunity to. Work on common strategy, common vision and sword for draft local bond strategy and I already tried to give equal emphasis to all these words, as we can say. Which came out of the several workshops for building this strategy with more than with approximately 300 experts, stakeholders and so on. But I had some problems with the model Core. We never spoke about that until then, only an Alexander started and I had some problems. What to put in the middle so?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This was my proposal and you can find it in this draft local man strategy. These are values of sustainable development. We believe that Slovenia's value sustainable very high. Although we don't act always sustainably, and then I found in a book by Violeta Bulls about this conscious, enlightened, holistic individuals and organizations, this is vision for 2050.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
OK, and this was feedback by only an Alexander. A very, very optimistic vision. That only spoke about this unleashing of Slovenia's own moral economic call and. Becoming a model for. For for the rest of the world, actually. So I started to work on that. This was in autumn 2011 I. Spoke personally to several experts, scientists, experts in other fields. But we couldn't move on.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Until.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
I started to think about these concepts. Social enter preneurship, social responsibility and green economy. Integrating this concept we can see in the Slovenians development strategy that we have this elements already means green knowledge inclusive society intrapreneurship effective public sector and the rule of law. And we have also the model code. I. Like condition pre condition. They set up a conditions at the bottom that have to be. Implemented by 2014 two 1015 something like that. For the strategy to be successful to be successfully implement and we have one of the four preconditions, ethics, an active, responsible citizens, and the state. So we have this already in our policy.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Payments. We spoke about Slovenian industrial policy. In this policy. We have corporate social responsibility as one of the 10 elements for improving the business environment. The 10 key areas for measures for instruments.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Here so I have put this coping courage in corporate social responsibility in the center. And different. Um guidelines around according to this forward approach. So this is only initial idea which we have to discuss, but. If we compare this model with the model of strategy, we can see that this is already operational. We have very well defined measures, instruments that are working EU policies behind and I believe this industrial Slovenian industrial policy then. Become very important building block for Integral Queen Slovenia. In addition also to the sustainable strategy for the development of sustainable tourism, which is all which has been adopted in 2011. So. This is.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
My idea? OK, we we Slovenian industrial policy. Actually elaborated this. Innovation policy, but it is based on challenges that environmental energy challenge and efficient use of natural resources based on sustainable production and consumption, sustainable mobility, food, health and aging, population and potential of key enabling technologies and then superiority technology areas. We come to key industrial sectors with of course several measures. The sector strategies actions plans that are already in that already in action, operational and others. Other dog.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Humans as well.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
We have several good practices. One of the good practice examples that would like to propose to Professor Lesson 4. Analyzing it is so child score with emphasis on sustainable tourism. Building on cultural and natural heritage, which is of course very rich protected areas. They established certain institutions in the local community. They are internationally connected about it European.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Destination of excellence and also promoting production change. The Multi Sexual, multi functional approach with synergies and of course, planning good participatory planning and action at the.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Level this would be all for today and I invite you to the to the events during the rest of the week which will be also very interesting and I believe rewarding for all of us. Thank you very much.
