Message passing in graphical models. The nodes in a graphical model correspond to random variables ABCD in this case, and the edges represent statistical dependencies between your variables. So for example, consider the following simple model. I have a set of N data points generated ID from a Gaussian with mean mu and standard deviation Sigma. Considering consider the following graph. What is inference inference corresponds to evaluating the probability distribution over some set of variables given the values of another set of variables. For example, what is the probability of a given that we know the value of C? And that ends up being about 8 terms depending on how you compute it. The first operation is 4 terms. So that's all I needed to have in this. What we really want is general purpose algorithms, where you write down the graph in some way on the computer, and the computer automatically figures out how to apply the sum and product rule efficiently with the conditional independence relationships that are encoded in your graph. Let's focus on particular example of factor graph propagation. And we're going to focus on what are called singly connected factor graphs. OK, so this is an example of a multiply connected factor graph or not, simply connected factor graph and I can tell you. The joint probability is written as a product of factors, so the joint probability here is one over some normalizing constant of the product. Over these J factors, where each factor depends on sub some subset of the vector of all the variables. OK, if the arguments are discrete, for example if they're binary, then we can think of the factors as tables with non negative entries in them, OK? Let N of X denote the set of factor nodes that are connected to variable X. Well, why do we need graphical models where graphical models so prominent in the machine learning Community these days? Well, first of all, they're very intuitive. And of course, a lot of other fields use diagrams or graphs to represent relationships between things. And similarly, let's say N of F denotes the set of variable nodes that are connected to factor F, so it's a bit of overload of this neighborhood notation OK? If you want to that, then you can just keep track of the normalization constants. The message from factor F to variable X. Is given by the following equation. The message from F to X is also a function of the variable. X is the sum over all variables, not including X. If a variable has only one factor as a neighbor, it can initiate this message propagation. For example, if I take a hidden Markov model. That's just factor graph propagation, and it shouldn't be surprising. Now there is a lot of nice software for graphical models. For singly connected graphs, we have these things called belief propagation and factor graph propagation. Now what do we do for multiply connected graphs OK? Becomes computationally very useful, so graphical models because of this conditional independence allow us to define message passing algorithms that implement probabilistic inference efficiently. So for example, we can ask we can answer queries like what is the probability of the variable a given that we know the variable C takes on some value. By passing messages on this graph without having to enumerate all the variables and integrate everything out OK. Now directed graphs, sometimes called Bayesian networks, but they don't necessarily as a footnote here, in that, for example, Bayesian networks, they don't have to be learned using Bayesian methods, it's just. There's sometimes also called belief networks. These directed graphs correspond to a particular factorization of the joint probability distribution over the variables.