Given by Gene Carletta and is Co authored by a whole host of people from the AMI project and it's a pre announcement of the AMI Corpus. Some things really are just timestamps against signal. In the corpus. We have of course orthographic transcription with word level timing struck by force alignment, and then we have discourse structure that will help us get it, meaning that's over the top of the orthography. Biology that's intended to support human interaction in meetings, and we tend to think of this at the moment is meeting browsers were also interested in on line meeting assistance for multimodal meeting recorders. And valuation specialists for the technology organizational psychologists who can tell us how groups work in in work environments in the wider workplace have groups within an organization serve the goals of that organization and about workgroup effectiveness and team working and how people make decisions and and the like. We need data that's been absolutely perfectly recorded on all modalities and captures everything about what the group is doing. And we don't just need the signal data, we need the data to have been annotated for all kinds of things that get us from that signal to the higher level. Analyst Invitation allows us to to have that sort of group in it and also to limit the task to understand everything about the task that the group is trying to perform so that we can both limit the domain and the primary purpose of that is to just to be able to understand what's going on in the group, and it also makes it possible to build ontologies for the task that people are performing, which is quite difficult for things like. And another point about dialogue elicitation is that you can control the knowledge that the people have going into the task, and they all have roughly the same level of motivation because they're not performing the task for some larger organization where you know there might be expecting promotion and or, they might be disgruntled by what's happened to them in the past and and behave accordingly in the group. The most stuff on in the army in the Army Project we have roughly 60% of it arising from a carefully designed designed elicitation task, which I'll describe in a minute. We bring together for people who have the task of designing a remote control in and around for meetings using a normal working office environment. What you have to know to to play these roles in making a remote control at the beginning of the day.