[0.0s - 29.0s]
Given by Gene Carletta and is Co authored by a whole host of people from the AMI project and it's a pre announcement of the AMI Corpus. Right, so I've only put my name on the 1st slide and I've noticed you don't have papers to see just how many people are involved in producing this corpus, and we had so many we had to have people sign up for authorship on a wiki. You know, with consent for the paper to be printed and everything 'cause it was just too difficult to handle any other way so. Pretend it's not me up here speaking. I'm not quite sure why I got the honor. And that the individuals who are authors in the paper drawn from the Army partners. So I'll just.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Remind you of love. What sort of institutions are involved in that? Right so. Family Project is developing tech.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Biology that's intended to support human interaction in meetings, and we tend to think of this at the moment is meeting browsers were also interested in on line meeting assistance for multimodal meeting recorders. Recording is in a lot of the. Kinds of issues that were interested in John summed up very nicely in the first talk. I think there's there's quite a bit of overlap in in the kinds of issues, if not the approaches with the cable project, and one of the key things about the only project is that it's very multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary in the way that the disciplines interact with each other, and the project involves requirements. And valuation specialists for the technology organizational psychologists who can tell us how groups work in in work environments in the wider workplace have groups within an organization serve the goals of that organization and about workgroup effectiveness and team working and how people make decisions and and the like. And then linguists who study groups who know about how people take turns in in groups and how they pass the floor to each other. And about things like how questions get answered in groups and and what backchannels mean in groups, that sort of thing. Then the signal processing people who can deal with these these multimodal signals as they come in and produce something out of that. You know that gradually builds up high semantic concepts to the kinds of things that people might actually want out of a meeting browser and computational linguists to do sort of a high of that scale and. Know about things like question answering and dialogue modeling so you know. I mean all these different kinds of specialists come together to address this problem of meeting browsing. Are you catching me on microphone OK? Right, OK, I need my glasses changed if I'm going to stand here. Right so. Did the motivation.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
For collecting I'm only here to talk about the corpus and. I perhaps with this credit goes without saying why you want to corpus at all, but it's important when you're when you're designing a collection to remember what the motivations are, and the idea is that this technological advancement has to be driven by the actual kind of data that you're going to run it on, and in particular for the corpus, we need the data to be plentiful, we need it to admit effectiveness measurement. Now that means we need to be able to tell how effectively people did. The task when they were trying to do in a meeting, and for instance, whether when they have access to a meeting browser they can do it more effectively than they could before they had the browser, and it you can't evaluate browsers well without that kind of effectiveness measurement, and effectiveness is an interesting issue for groups in its own right. We need data that's been absolutely perfectly recorded on all modalities and captures everything about what the group is doing. And we don't just need the signal data, we need the data to have been annotated for all kinds of things that get us from that signal to the higher level. Things like like, question, answers and let what decisions were made. And I key through all this is we need the data to be realistic. So like what you would want to apply real meeting browsers too. So these are.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
All key parts of the data design that we have. So those. Those key design issues for the data actually want us to make slightly different decisions then I think. Perhaps some of you will be used to because we've chosen for part of the data that we have not to record real meetings that are out there in the world and are happening anyway, but to specifically elicit. Meetings in groups that don't have any history with each other. You know they haven't been feuding for 20 years, you don't know what decisions they've made in previous meetings because they. We know that they haven't made any decisions in previous meetings. That's what is meant by Zero History Group in organizational psychology and. Analyst Invitation allows us to to have that sort of group in it and also to limit the task to understand everything about the task that the group is trying to perform so that we can both limit the domain and the primary purpose of that is to just to be able to understand what's going on in the group, and it also makes it possible to build ontologies for the task that people are performing, which is quite difficult for things like. So the next meeting corpus but you know you don't want to have ontologies built into all of your end technology, because then you can't port your technology to other domains, but the ontologies are very useful as your Azure understanding the one domain and working towards these domain independent implementations. And another point about dialogue elicitation is that you can control the knowledge that the people have going into the task, and they all have roughly the same level of motivation because they're not performing the task for some larger organization where you know there might be expecting promotion and or, they might be disgruntled by what's happened to them in the past and and behave accordingly in the group. And the other point about dialogue elicitation is you can build in outcome measures and be able to measure their work group effectiveness that I mentioned is important to browser evaluation. So in the the Army hub corpus.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Which is the 100 hours or so or 4% meetings that we are doing. The most stuff on in the army in the Army Project we have roughly 60% of it arising from a carefully designed designed elicitation task, which I'll describe in a minute. And then the remaining 40% from other genres of elicitations and some real meetings and basically data that's designed to tell us where our methods designed on the elicitation task will generalize, and where they won't. And to let us push out the boundaries of what we design in this more controlled setting. So having defended why we have an elicitation to test it out.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
I can tell you what the elicitation task is. We bring together for people who have the task of designing a remote control in and around for meetings using a normal working office environment. So they've got laptops with. Software audit that includes email and web browsers and. You know, text editors and all the things that people are ordinarily used to seeing when they work. They've got things to do in meetings. Things to do to prepare for meetings and. The things that they do to prepare at the very beginning. Give them some idea about different rules that there to play during the day. So one of them will be project manager for the Group One of them is given enough experience, enough understanding of marketing to play the role of marketing expert, there will be an interface, user interface Designer and an industrial designer who understands about the materials and the components that go into making a remote control. So we're going to crash course in. What you have to know to to play these roles in making a remote control at the beginning of the day. And that throughout the day they'll get different feedback from the organization. So for instance, at one point the project manager will be told that the budget has been cut and they have to readjust their ideas for the design. And at another point the marketing expert might be told what kinds of things are hot for the target demographics for the remote control. So within this general setting, there are four meetings that are collected. Their project kickoff, which the project manager tells them what the project is about and they just introduced themselves and get used to the meeting room. Functional design of the remote control conceptual design and then bringing these two things together in a detailed design in the last meeting and throughout the day, as well as doing this task, they are given questionnaires that allow us to measure the effectiveness and how other team working together, whether anybody is under particular workload strain and things like that.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So how do we collect this kind of data? We have three different rooms that are designed for complete capture. What's going on? One at each? Should three partner sites? And what you can see in the rooms. These are just these are actually not pictures taken, at least for the Edinburgh not pictures taken with the room equipment. There are like photographs of people using the room, so you'll see actual data later on, but you can see. From the bottom door, picture in the middle. I'm little stock that there is microphone array that picks up the farm fields. It's fabulous recording of the room with full video cameras underneath this thing that looks like a cheese board and they're pointing at each of the four separate people, so you get close up views of each person individually in the rooms. Far Field recordings, headset microphones lapel microphones. And along with that, there's recording for all the different kinds of devices that they're using, so again, the Adam board picture is clear, so you can see that the white board that the man is writing on has a little device in the corner. It's an electronic whiteboard, so it records what's written on it. They each have pen pads with logic tech pens, so we know what they've written. And we can work capturing the slides that they put up on the screen and all of this data is synchronized together, so we know how they all go together at the same time.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Bum so. This is the bit you have to put these slides up, because the technical people really like them, but. And I think Mike made me to give this type actually ask. My Clinton gives us and I think he wanted to watch Mr through this bit. This is just to convince you if your technical person that yes, the stuff is synchronized and. If you, if you know what prospective equipment are then it'll look lovely to you. Right and.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
15 apiece. So right again, the word is synchronized just by inserting the same time code on each of the different video signals from from one piece of kit that generates a time code for everything. But one thing that doesn't work this way is the depends so that the pens keep their own local time because we have no way of synchronizing with everything else. And then we have to write a script to try and get them roughly on at the end.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Right, so here is this is not all the cameras, but here's some sample camera views from the Edinburgh Room so you can see two of the close up cameras there slightly at an angle. Because of the way that she's bored, is is located and then a rule view at the top taken from the corner and then something which is unique to the Edinburgh Room is an overhead camera, so each of the rooms are set up slightly different for what the room views are. But the acoustics of the rooms are all slightly different as well, which make sure that we're not overtraining on one room, but it provides a nice capture and some nice variation in the data set while still having enough. Enough coherent sending entire set that that you can treat it as one one hole for most purposes. And then. Only other thing to notice. We had a lot of people who complain about the funny little strip at the top of the videos. That's the time code, so that's what's doing the magic of giving you the synchronization. But the annotators always have to to know that first, because they just think something is going wrong. OK, so I said it's not just to capture these signals, you also need to have a human make sense of them in all different kinds of ways, and I think Amy is quite ambitious in the annotations that they've decided.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
To mark up on the data so we we have a wide range of them covering the different modalities there are. You know things to do with head and hand gestures and things to do with language, and it's actually quite tricky putting together these kinds of annotations into one working database. Because some of them will be over some of the annotations will be over orthographically transcribed words and they're really not just time spans, but their structures that go over the top of of the words. Some things really are just timestamps against signal. Like you know somebody moved their their head is shaking motion from this time to that time, and all of these things need to go together. In in the data set, in a way that you can query and you know you have to be able to produce the meditation. Some of them at one site and summon another and still work them together, and so this is. This is a big deal. I mean I think producing an annotated corpus of this size is going to be of real value. So I'll just talk briefly. I think about some of these annotations in case you want to know what kinds of things are going to be in the corpus, there's going to be a motion coding, which is based on if you want a diagram that. I was put up for the Humane talk with the space of different emotions and. And dimensions like active and passive. And that's the style of motion coding that we have. Also in this project, it's it's. It's based very much on on writing how is work. Perhaps gestures work. We're concentrating on. The kinds of gestures that get used for turn taking in a corpus, and for conveying simple semantic things like yes and no so. But head gesture codes are things like emphasis and signaling agreement signaling disagreement. The expected that functional level met at a firm level so they aren't expressed at the level of they move their head up and down between a certain with this certain angular displacement, you know a certain number of times you know these are all of the annotations are designed so that they bear relationships to form, but it's the function that we're after because we're trying to to be able to understand what happens in. In the corpus. OK, and then hand gestures are things like pointing at the other individuals or manipulating some object. But Matt, if you know the hand gesture literature, the more expensive kinds of things like figurative gestures, and certainly not dividing things into the typical preparation stroke, retract phases that more detailed coding would use. Location of the room. Just you know where all this sitting at those places where they open the whiteboard. That's quite simple. And then you know who or what are they looking at. Just gross distinctions there. We have of course orthographic transcription with word level timing struck by force alignment, and then we have discourse structure that will help us get it, meaning that's over the top of the orthography. So some simple dialogue acts not like for instance the mrda scheme with lots and lots of tags, more like a dozen chosen to be in the kind of design meetings that we have named entities focusing on people and. And the bits in the room like. Like a play DoH version of the remote control that they make at one point. Topic segments decision phases. Participants write summaries of the meetings as they go through. They have to report on what happened in the meetings to their superiors, and so we have extractive summaries that link these participants. That link dialogue acts to these participants summaries, and this is all under production at the moment, but we expect to have the entire 100 hours annotated with this. Most of it shortly, but you know it takes a while to do these things.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So. To end with. I wanted to just play a very brief excerpt from one of the recorded meetings. I just happened to put it up in the named Entity Tool. Because that's an easy way to show it. If you want to know about this kind of tool, then you have to go to the NXT demo rather than watch it here. But I'll just play a wee bit. Except the sound isn't working so well. Actually, I think what I'll do is I'm moving forward from the beginning, which is always a bit strange. Starting with international scale and. No more than 12:50 or so, 50% of the selling price. I can just go with that again, sure. So this. Alright. So cost like correction, Constance. Selling prices is that wholesale retail. Like on the shelf. I've got. So that's quite a cool part of meeting. You know they get more into it later. But that gives you a flavor for for what kind of fingers up? Any questions? It's one of the front, Oh yeah. Could you talk a little bit more about the place of topical medications? So the topic segmentation sure. So what we have for it is. A shallow hierarchical decomposition of topic segments and they so they never go more than. I think two or three levels deep, and we're. We're not just segmenting the data, we're producing a labeling for it, which is going to be. We started by having one person go through and find a bunch of likely topic labels. I mean, it helps that we've got this remote control scenario for the bulk of our data. That's that's a bit more concentrating on annotating at the moment, and so you know we know what they've told them to talk about in the different meetings, so we know roughly what kinds of things are going to come up, and there's about. 10 general labels that they have which which cover. Cover sort of top level discussions that they have, and then there's actually another set of smaller, more precise labels they have for sub discussions within that. So a top level label might be something I can't remember exactly what they are, but it might be something like discussing the. The user interface of the remote control and then underneath that might be deciding on the button positions, right? Yes, so I'll be annotations that we have. We are requiring Inter annotator agreement studies to be done and it's of course quite tricky with topic segmentation. To know what the best way of reporting that is so. We the way we did it was by. I'm trying to remember looking at segment boundaries and looking at whether or not a topic boundary was placed at each segment boundary and then for greed topics whether the labeling was the same, and I imagine I could slip you a report on that, it's only on the wikis, but we haven't released it 'cause we haven't released the annotation yet. Yeah, yeah. Questions and then. I was wondering. How many different kinds of groups we have? One career tracking overtime. We have different people. Right, so we have roughly 30 or 40 groups doing this task in a series of four short meetings during the day that 60% of the data, the other 40% is stuff that pushes out towards other genres from that's obviously a key part of what we're doing is that it's design. Design meetings are quite different from other kinds of meetings, and so we're trying to collect other design meetings. Well, to some extent, and we also have some other things in there that push out further than that. But if you can sort of see it as concentric circles right? The remote controls the core and then other design meetings, some of which are elicitations in some which are real or outside that, and then we have a few more other things just to give us ideas about what's going to happen next, and you can see using those to see, well, you know does what we've designed apply to, you know, not a design meeting, but a you know some kind of board meeting. So, so there isn't a bunch of stuff that's fairly, you know, these are just work meetings and. You also may. Pacific like assessing effectiveness. A few more words about the interest in performance and what you what people are interested in doing with that information, right? So how is being assessed and right so the kind of information that we're collecting is questionnaire based, and it's the typical. I mean, you may have seen the team climate inventory, which is a quite common way of collecting this, so you know, I feel questions like you know, I feel that everyone pulls together too. Get the job done in this team. Or, you know people aren't sharing their information. Typically a whole range of questions that people answer from which you can construct a score for how well people are team working. And you can imagine similar ways of assessing how much work somebody has at each point in the meeting. That's what we're using to assess. Assess the team feel in the workload for effectiveness. It's designed with remote control design. It's designed in that there are some solutions that are better than others. Given the spec that you have, I mean you know, coming up on budget is important there. Also, given the idea at one point that it would be quite good if the remote control were in the company colours. And the marketing guy finds out that fruits trendy at one point. And so since the company colors are blue and yellow, you kind of expect a banana with blue buttons. So this is this is the way what we're doing is measuring how well they get the point of what they're doing. Off this, I mean we haven't tried this yet. This is the way it's designed in, and we're hoping that will produce us with good effectiveness measures for whether or not they shared the data well. And that's why we've got the role differentiation in the meeting. People work. We've had some people look at the meetings to say so. Designers. I think we've done a good job on this. You know they say yeah, teams that people coming in to have much more experience in design than ours do. But they're actually in a poor life. I used to go around recording meetings and industry. That's how I got into this project and. They don't behave that differently. You would affect this would be very amateurish, but it's a standard technique that's used in organizational psychology, and it does work. Courtyard pointing gesture. He scares the heck. Is that exactly everything when something is. It's really a planet. Not every point. Existing, cheap and. That's something. In fact, I had a discussion with with just last week with Big Slap hitting a little snag about this, and one commenter caper is everything is starting. Compliment. And what would you get? It indicated that when something is is allotted, taking weird appointment for lots of different very. Very pleasant. Right well. We're being quite restrictive in what counts. We're not, we're not. We're not restricting what we code based on form, so we're not saying it has to be a G or anything like that, but we have been being quite restrictive in how prominent the gesture has to be in what the person is doing in order to code it, because what we're interested in. So. We we aren't. They have very specific instructions about how to do this apart from the bear indicating say, another speaker or that they are touching. Object not, you know. Not. To communicate. And. This is one of our slightly less mature annotations at the moment, because it's just getting underway in the Czech Republic in the moment, but so we may encounter troubles when we piloted it in Edinburgh. We didn't find people had trouble as long as we as long as it had to be clear that it was relating to what the people were talking about at the time. But you know, maybe maybe I missed judging this. And when I get back into the office I'm going to discover this is a problem. No, we're restricting by what gets indicated, right? So we're not interested in indicating locations. It's only physical objects in the room and other participants. That helps, right? Yeah. If you end up with mental spaces later. People would do a pair. Exactly what one is one of the indexes you do is to not see people, but the thing that was just said so so you Russian ship. Which is something we wouldn't be choosing to annotate, and so yeah. OK, so thanks very much. We have a break now.
