[0.0s - 29.0s]
That in this case will be about much in translation. I will say this will be just a short introduction, 'cause I think that. The research in the last year. Or much integration has evolved alot and. A lot of techniques have been proposed, so I will just to introduce the main concepts. The main ideas that are currently being used for tackling much in translation. OK, so. If you're interested in this in this. Topic I think I recommend you this book. This is a. A book that has appeared recently. It's a book. That has appeared recently. Just few months ago. And. Is a book that go not too much in depth? In specific topic and covers. In a nice way, the mind. The main concepts of the current. Systems that are based in statistics that used the statistical approach OK. I have no Commission, of course. The authorities Philip Coyne. And Filecoin currently is one of the. Major contribution contribution to the match in translation. Field. And this is the author of Moschus. That is currently more than most. Used much international system that you can download. Is free. You can download the uninstalling your own machines and motions will be the system that we will. Use in the lab sessions Moses. If you write moschus in Google, the 1st first entry entry is. Is there is there web page where you can download the motion system OK? OK, so. I will now go into my death depth in. In this introduction, 'cause there are a lot of ideas and tell a fault of developments and and the approach all the approaches has behind a lot of mathematics and statistics and. I have avoided at most. I have to go in depth in details, so if you are interested please try to follow this book. And in this book you can follow this specific papers in Wichita. The witch. Every day is just plain OK. I would think of this book also is that is a good review of the most of the reference that has appear in recent years, OK? So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
This is the index that I will follow in this talk. I will introduce. The minor some important issues related to match in translation. What is the objective approach? Is the most important approaches. That are currently used for much interpolation. Given that. We are considering in this talk inductive methods for much interpolation. One of the problems is to have available. Enough data, Fortunately, currently we have. We are able to. To get to obtain the data free data for a lot of languages, not all of them, of course, but I think obtaining data is always a problem. And I will also explain. One important issue related to much interaction that is how to measure the goodness of a model. The output provided by a model and I will then I will explain some concepts about. Alignment about alignment between sentences. That is an important concept. And then I will explain more about set alignment models. And in this, in this point I will show I will describe the main ideas that are currently behind. On a behind the the systems that. Currently are being used for much interpolation. The most important like Moses. Google. Is using currently? One of these approaches, the Alignment template approach. And at the end of this talk I will explain some other approaches. Too much in translation. The syntax approach, syntax based approach that. For some pages of languages currently are obtaining the best results because you must take into account that. Given that we are trying to relating tales of languages, sometimes the structure of the of the languages. Can be very different and a good approach for one pay. Could not be good for another pair of languages because you need to change the order or some part of the other sentence. So for example, syntax based pricing models translation models have provide very good results for pace of languages in which the structure is very different. For example, we're trying to translate between English and Chinese. OK. OK, please don't hesitate to ask me any question in any moment.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, so let's just start with the 1st.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Giving some ideas about the problem of machine translation so. Obviously the the main goal in a much integration is to develop techniques. On systems that can be translated from one input language to another output language, this is the main idea. OK, so there are some. Erroneous conceptions about. What much interpolation can do and? What happened and? How much interpolation can affect to a given year to some issues? OK, so. One erroneous conception is thinking that. Is that much international will? And maybe in the future to translate difficult text that are very rich text like for example some book. From this author. It is, it is incorrect thinking that maybe in the near future, in the near future we will be able to translate. In in appropriate way I book which can have a lot of vocabulary. Translate into a perfect translate perfectly to another language. OK. So. Sometimes it is thought that the quality of the output provided by a much interaction system is not very good, but it's not really true becausw. Much in translation currently provides appropriate output. Good with quality translation for specific, very specific fields, so one of the one of the main consideration for obtaining a good match in translation system is to have enough data to train the model so. And this is related also with the in some sense with the vocabulary that we want to translate. For large vocabulary it is difficult to translate from one language to another language. It is not realistic to think now that we can develop after much international system that can translate any sentence from any from any. From in general, from one for one language to another language, so that kind of system currently currently. Do not exist. So the idea is to develop a specific systems for some specific context. For example, translating into the translating the. The text collected from I don't know. For example, for tourist, for, for, for doctors, and very specific, very specific fields. OK, if we limit 8 limit the field so we could be more successful. OK. Another is continuously is thinking that much integration threatens the job of translator. That is not true. Maybe cause more and more there is more need of authorizations, so we're increasing the market. Not we're not trying to substitute translators, in fact. We should take into account that are little are also necessary in order to provide. For example, good quality translations. For example, we are trying to translate a manual from language to another language. In this situation, we need a translator. A professional OK. So. And it is also currently never honest conception to think that. We will be able in the near future to translate. What I spent what Japanese is saying in its own in his own language to another language. In real time and imperfect and perfect translation, that is not realistic currently. OK. Some facts about much in relation that we.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Should take into account. Are the following. There are some. Some situations, some some some concrete tasks for which we can obtain not perfect translation but useful translation. Sometimes when we are reading for example a newspaper from another country, we need, we are only interested in the main ideas. Knowing the perfect translation. OK. And currently we are able to obtain that kind of information at a high speed, cause we must think we must take into account that in a lot of lot of times we need translation in the moment immediately. So there is a compromise between complexity of the models that are behind this kind of models and the time that in that the system needs to provide a good. An appropriate and attestation OK. So in some especially tax, how much interpolation can produce very good quality results? For example, we started to our research group. They started to work. I don't know, maybe. 50 years ago or much integration, and in that moment we defined a specific task related to tourists. Arrive to the desk of the hotel and the question that he has asked for so and the results for that concrete scenario. Very few words. Not too much. Works 101 at most. The results were good between us. OK. So obviously much interaction doesn't does not threaten translator job cause more and more there is more demand of translation. So we must take into account that currently speech to speech much interaction is still a research topic. There has been very important advance in this in this area, but we need more more and more research and for example. The main advances in this topic is between pace of languages. For there is a lot of data. In order to train the models. For example, most of the European languages cause in Europe, for example, there is a context in which these ideas can be applied on this. In the in the European Parliament, because alteration speeches are all. Translated to all languages, and in this way we are able to have enough data. OK. So of course. Currently, the results that we are obtaining for much intervention are not very good. Depending on the size of the vocabulary. So there is also a lot of work to be carried out OK. We must take into account that building a translation machine at additional much information system in a way in which professional provides rules to translate is very time consuming job and the much the currently the usual approach is is a are based in inductive approach in which we learn from the data. And. Even for this kind of models. The amount of effort that our person that knows how to use the system needs also. A lot of effort in order to customizing the much integration system cause is not immediately is not, is not immediate to take a much interaction system the data and provide good results. That's not true. There is a lot of we must adapt the models. To the there are a lot of tuning job behind that behind that process OK? OK, so in fact, when developing a much international system by using the software that are currently available, for example motions, if you want to. To prepare a much information system, there are a lot of work regarding 2 preprocessing, postprocessing, ways of showing adequately information, so the behind all the processed there also and other things not related directly to much installation OK. So.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So we need up upgrade editing process and then we need a post editing process in order to provide good with the translation OK and sometimes sometimes this this preprocessing and postprocessing can help a lot to the machine translation system. OK.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
OK, so the minor scheme of a much international system can be seen in this way. We have a source sentence. We need to pray edit in the sentence usually usually. For a simple for simple one thing that we can do is when we try and a model, sometimes the amount of parameters is very large and a way of decreasing the amount of parameters is to, for example, to capitalize the sentence, then translate and then capitalize adequately the sentence so. This process. Process is also a very interesting research topic. OK for example. Removing the date. From a sentence and then then put again the date in the target sentence. But in the format that the people that use that language are used to see that information. For example, the date in English are not usually presented in the same way in us in Spanish. OK. So the main technologies that have been considered. For much integration, the minor approaches other this linguistic knowledge based methods. This is not the currently these kind of techniques are not currently very used. Other approach that had been using in the last. Maybe? 20 years has been. May memory example based methods, in which professional translate one sentence to another sentence, and then that information is kept for another sentence. And. After a lot of time you have, you are able to have a lot of segments. And their systems that using that information and some rules can provide adaquate equated translation but it takes a lot of time. OK. This technique is also known as translation memories. List.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
It is also known as translation Memories. So the mine currently the mine approach. The main approaches are this alignment models syntax based models and finite state models. And sometimes, in some systems, their combination of this kind of models. So the main idea.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And OK, so the statistical machine translation is too. Given a source sentence to provide, attach a sentence and we here we need the model, the system that are fed with models. And the idea behind the approach is very similar to the approach that had been used for a lot of time in speech. Recognition is the same idea. Currently there have been other approaches, but are very similar in some sense OK? So the idea is to use what is now the notion channel in which the goal is to obtain the best translation for a given sentence. And this problem can be stated in this way and. We insert manipulation. We arrive to this other way of. Of saying something similar in which this is again the language model and this is the translation model so. The idea behind this, this way of seeing the translation is in order to translate this sentence to this sentence, the idea is. Provide a target sentence and then compute how how well this target sentence accounts for the input. 'cause you must provide an output sentence and then compute how well that sentence account for the input sentence. So this is the main idea. Currently there are the. Is this approach is currently also being used? For example, most you should use this approach. But the idea is in some sense in some sense very similar, OK? I will discuss later. I will discuss later the kind of model that are behind this. Maximum entropy models.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
OK, so. The.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
In a statistical machine translation, this is the approaches that currently be considered. And they.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
There is something like this I will describe later in more in depth. The idea the idea is in Word alignment approaches. The idea is to define an alignment between an input sentence and an output sentence to discover some kind of relation between the words, define alignments that correlate one word with another word from the input to the output, and from these alignments. Then we can able to obtain some kind of information, for example emotions. Currently the information that is being used. The information is being used are the main information is segments. Some segments, some phrases, but no, but not in the linguistic. I'm a linguistic POV. OK. In this that in the syntactical syntactic approach, the idea is to use. Syntactic syntax in order to correlate different parts of the of the sentences. Behind this approach we have some. Language formal formal language theory. SYNTAX based syntax based. I don't remember. Yeah, I teach. It is a formal grammar with some information. That are able to translate from one language to another language. I will discuss later and in the finite state approach. Idea is to use information from language theory from finite state models OK? I will focus the talk just in these two approach industry approaches, but it is also important to think that they are also very interesting approaches like this. For example, calling told me that currently. There are some developments in this in this in this approach, OK? Questions.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So an important thing. In much interpolation, like in other fields of machine learning, is to have available enough resources. That in this case the mind resources are dictionaries, ways of translating from one word to another word. This is very important. This is one of the most important things in not just in much interaction, but in other fields. Like it's bigger recognition or for example in a specific research field that we're working currently. That is, for example, for handwriting text you need vocabularies. Because sometimes an important thing that I not commented yesterday and is very also very important. Imagine translation is to model adequately. Not seen events is a very important problem. How to smooth the model in order to take into account events that not have been seen in the training data. OK. So we also we can if we have high available some some information about the grammar, the model of the language, we can use, it. Obviously corpora becausw in all cases in all approaches that we are considering. The idea is to learn from data and for some languages this is a very difficult problem and you must take into account that is not realistic to think that in the future we will have a paid, we will have data. Tutor late. One language to another language. Having from one language to another language. And to have parallel data it is not realistic because the number of the number of languages is too large and this for example it's not not realistic to think that for example, maybe in the future we will have. Apparel data for the lighting, for example, from Catalan to local language, from over here. OK, so in fact, in fact, very interesting research topic is how to translate from one language to another language by using an intermediate language about language. Currently this is a very interesting approach in and. For example, maybe some systems. I don't know if Google Translate use this approach for translating from for two different languages is using up this kind of approach using an intermediate language. So. We need not only we need not only parallel data, but also. More rich information in this case. We need paragraph aligned alignment information or. Sentence alignment alignment information. This is a very interesting question, so we need not only a text in English, a text in French, at what text in Spanish and then we can translate from this language to another language we need in order to train our models, we need a text and a text and a relation between the sentence. Obviously we can't. We can learn from not aligning aligning alignment text, but it is more difficult of course. Important important thing in the approaches that we will see later is that there is no need to write specifically how each word is related to each work cause. Fortunately we have tools for learning that information. For learning that information, OK.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
OK, so and another thing to weigh into account imagination very important thing is how to evaluate. They'll put provided by a much international system is a very important question. In fact, evaluation of much intelligence systems is currently a very interesting research topic. The reason is clear. Be cause, for example when you are when you are developing a system, for example for speech recognition, the output is clear becausw. There's no ambiguities. There are no ambiguities because you are translating. You know the output because you are able to listen, but in modulation this is not the case because given sentence can be translated in different ways with the same meaning. So. There can be more than one good translation. OK, so there is a need of defining other quad ways of evaluating the output of a much international system. OK, most of the there are some. The most usual approaches are based. In like by computing editing distance between the strings. But this is this is a very pessimistic way of measuring machine translation system. 'cause you oh, if you have this is the. This is your input and this is your output. If the output provided by the system. Doesn't match equally with the correct output. You penalize the much information system and sometimes that makes no sense OK? So currently one of the most used. One of the most used evaluation techniques are what is now blue blue, the blue technique. You yeah. No, no, we should go like this. Blue nice, it's correct, it's correct. Lately I'm not sure. OK, what is the idea in this score that is simple there is? Is this compute are metric mean of the amount of N grams that appear between the two sentence? This is the idea ladies to look for. N grams consecutive consecutive sequences of words that appear in both in the in the output of the system in the system output and in the reference in the reference sentence. And this is a geometric mean geometric mean that takes into account. Engrams of length 123 etc. Usually until until four or five. OK. And there is a metric that is between is adequately defined. Penalize source sentences becausw. You don't penalize short sentences. So since this is a more more liquid, but it is a way of measuring that is the most current. Measure that this is the currently most the most used measure, OK.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK. So questions until here. No questions. OK, so we will now see. The main concepts about alignment models. I'll let me model. We are introduced. In the in the in the in the thinking. 1990 think maybe? By research group from IBM. And that was the moment in which matters much. Integration became a very fruitful research field. OK. The mind if you see for example alignment models and IBM models, immediately you obtain the key references that are there two references from Bro Merced Della Pietra and Jelinek. That's the main difference about this issue. Statistical models are not currently the state of the art in much installation, but these models. Introduced the main concepts that are behind the current systems. One of the most important concepts is the concept of alignment, OK? So that seminar works. Introduced. Several kinds of models from more simple model, simpler models to more sophisticated models and so. You are increasing the complexity, the kind of relation that you are trying to model in the complex. You are able to obtain better results, but the price is to increase the time in order to train that kind of models and the time to translate OK? And also, although this kind of models. Are not currently there is state of the art image interpolation. They are currently used for for supporting the best ideas that are behind from behind. Of much integration system of current modulation system. For example, the concept of alignment and how to do you obtain how you how you obtain the phrases that are needed to fill up the systems so that information is obtained from. The first development that we represented in the work OK, IBM model 123456 are used to obtaining phrases. That is the core concept in the current systems. OK, so.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The idea we must take into account that in all cases we are considering a statistical approach is OK. So the idea is suppose that we have. A language that is to obtain for a given input the best possible output. By using in this case. Is that any statistical framework? OK, so the idea is to define adequate models that penalize incorrect translation and. Are able to provide good translations. Ladies two to give to penalize. Not very good translation. For example translation like this should be low integration like this should be high, for example here. You can read keto now we just yawn. EE convinced actual matter. That means I want a room, a double room with fighting to the sea. OK, and this is the translation that could be provided by a system that is clearly incorrect. The semantic is incorrect, not just that relation, but the semantic. OK, and the idea is to define models that are able to provide good translation, for example. That is good translation, but that sentence. OK.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So. We will use statistical approaches to solve this problem. To define this problem, and the idea is to obtain the best translation given an input. And I have been commended clearly we can use a direct approach. Use an inverse approach that is based in the channel model that I will describe in the following slides and we can follow a direct approach that are based on maximum entropy models. For example, Moschus uses this approach.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK, this is how I have explained previously to solve the problem in this way. In order to obtain their installation, we provide an open sentence and then compute how the how the how the provided how the target sentence accounts for the for the source sentence. OK, so this is the language model. And this is the. And iteration model you must take into account obviously that when we are using a language model. We are not providing. Sent it is exhaustively. This is not the system doesn't run in this way. The idea is to provide output sentence in a very intelligent way. So I highlight this because it is important to take into account that in much interaction, like in a speech recognition, very important problem is the problem of searching. You have a. You have a. A space of possible hypothesis, and you must define adequately adequate ways of of searching in that space. And these are very important problem in much interpolation. OK, so the system runs in this way. OK, we need.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Language model a good language model. Currently the usual model RN gram models again, ngram models. OK. And not only getting not only gram models, but. Woo. Good ways of smoothing the model in anger. In language modeling, one important problem is how to model events that not have been seen in the training data. So this is very interesting works. About how to handle events that have no appear in the data. OK, discounting methods, interpolation methods etc. OK. And this is the translation model and the search procedure is carried out in this way. I will not go into into much depth in this topic because it will need a lot of time, OK? That's that's probably.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So this is a minor scheme for a much integration system. We need this is the input. We process the input and we carry out the search process and provide an output. By post processing that equally, the output provided initially by the system. Here we have the language model that is. The language model that is. Trying it, trying it from target, training data. Target training data. OK, and we need billing well data in order to train that relation models.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
For this problem. For this problem for language modeling. That

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Actual approaches are these. This is the usual approach. For example, this is the part that is used. In more shares. Under Google Translate and in most of the match installation system. OK, in fact, in some systems, in order to reduce the amount of parameters sometimes. The system used not. Word ngram models, but world in grams of categories. And then expand each category in. The appropriate word. OK, but we could also consider context. Other approaches, as I commented yesterday, OK, this kind of models are trained in very well. No way that you can see in the literature. OK. OK, you have available. Adequate shoulder to train this kind of models free software. For example. No. Sr. ILM.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
This is our wedding now we will now. Sure that you can download for free. You might register, but it's free. And another one is from very useful. So what is this one for language modeling of CMU? OK, for example, I think that Moses. Usually use uses this this. This or recommends that's over OK. OK, so the learning of the language learning of the language models can be carried out. There are several approaches. The most usual approach is this, but other projects can be considered OK. And an important problem as I have commented, is the smoothing problem smoothing problem and there have been other approaches for language modeling. That you can see in the literature, and this is the show that I have been commented. And you can download from this webpage. K.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
OK, so this is regarding to this part of the system. Now we will take a look to this part. Of the of the system OK. So you don't mind now we take a rest of five minutes, OK?
