Sean comes from the University of Manchester School of Computer Science, where he has been working on a different kinds of research issues on infrastructure, design and semantic technologies. Potentially some issues that are kind of associated with it, so the title of the talk is scores past, present and future, and I've included little subtitle here, which is a little bit of history, architecture and engineering, so this will be somewhat lightweight on the history, architecture and engineering and not not historian, architect, or engineer. Here we have this notion of controlled vocabularies. OK, so some collection of terms that we can use for classifying or indexing documents and retreiving them in a controlled vocabulary kind of ensures that we're we're kind of controlling this space. But we have the notion that some of these terms kind of equivalent interchangeable. So here with a thesaurus we have K vocabulary, we have concepts they have terms representing them particular preferred terms. So this was early work on describing the source data which came up with representation, discussed core along with some usage guides. The semantic Web best practices deployment working group OK, which was there for to provide hands-on support for developers of the semantic Web applications, then produce the UH, score score vocabulary specifications. King Group OK, which was intended to provide guidance in terms of technical reports for publication of vocabularies and the use of integrating RDF with HTML document, so in effect the SWD was doing two things, was producing scores and producing our DFA, so there was one group. So the reference kind of describing the language. OK, access to image collections. Scribing product lifecycles, building metadata registries and so on from a number of different domains. So this is bridge 77 on the Macclesfield Canal. So the goals that Scott has were to provide a simple, machine readable machine, understandable representation for knowledge organization system, something that's flexible and extensible and that works kind of within within a web setting. Anne Scott, adopt what we might call a concept based as opposed to a term based approach. OK, so the kind of the key thing that we're modeling or were describing within the Knowledge Organization scheme is a concept. OK, and this is this is the approach that's taken in things like the kind of the ISO standards and the British standards for describing thesauri so that a turn based approach you have relationships between terms. So here on the on the left we've got the kind of supposedly the term based approach, so I have animals and narrower term cat and capped the so here these abbreviations are kind of standardized terms used for sore eyes, so cats used for domestic cats. This label extension Scott Sex also provides some additional support for the description of labels and links between them, so this is kind of an essentially treating labels. Number of properties, their documentation properties, and again it's these aren't. Hierarchical and associative relationships OK broader narrower. OK, it's not a set of the hours guidelines. But there's no formal enforcement of this. I have cow milk, goat milk and Buffalo milk and I want to kind of collect and group these things by milk by source animal, but milk by source animal is not a concept that I want to represent in my knowledge organization scheme, so I can represent this using a collection. OK which which gives me hints about how I might kind of display or render this particular collection of terms. What's not in there, so there are no subject indexing properties in scores. There's no real support for rich linguistic structures. So this is this is Stockport Viaduct. It's triples all the way. OK, and this is so this is so Scott is is semantic web technology from the ground up. This is the kind of standardization piece of what I'm kind of coming from, so there's a use of common infrastructure you can use off the shelf tooling for delivery, storage and query of these things. So there. OK, Scott itself is defined as an AL ontology. OK, there are some issues about this which will will will return to but a particular source vocabulary is then an instantiation of that ontology. It means we can define some of the properties of scores, so there are some over. So it's a common data model for sharing and linking knowledge organization systems via the web. Ashness Bridge is a kind of an example of something, so this is. We're kind of quite early adopters of Scots. OK, so they were kind of word lists presented in these specifications. Now score sent allows us to do some explicit representation of that information. Fairly obvious bankruptcy, but but one of the key things that requirements that was going on here is that the use of Scots to help find the data, not to describe it. This was about describing something to help find the data or find something to help find the data, not necessarily describe it is this is. So this is these are terms that were observed or collected from surveys of datasets. And there's also perhaps little usage of this. The keyword list for papers on web pages? This Journal keywords in their scraped from the papers or from the PDF's and so on. Communities want to continue to use their own vocabularies and want to be able to kind of crosswalk, so the use of Scots mapping properties here is kind of important, and this is an. OK, they're kind of resistant to change that. They've got very long term view. You know, vocabulary construction is not their core business, but it's useful. The current metadata needs of this community, you know. So this is talking about Scotts Ification of sources. OK so the use of Scots here is a common format supporting integration mapping and alignment between the technologies, so there's some kind of demo sites that we can look at doing things like auto completion on the searchings of across the multiple vocabularies that screenshots public kind of a little bit small to see, But here's some autocompletion sort pop going on here. And again in the in the European are in the in the White paper. So Thesaurus for bibliographic records. So Ed Summers, who is one of the participants of the working Group who works for the Library of Congress. I think it was represented in in Marc XML and there were some mappings of the features. The functions and labels and storm that were in that data set in that data into scores, properties and many built some infrastructure delivered. So what happened was it was taken down. You know that this had to kind of come down now why so? So management, we're kind of confused about what was going on. There were worries about licensing issues in terms of whether this data could be explored, and there was perhaps just kind of reluctance or or being scared to step out. Decatur, however, there's a happy ending, which is that this is now available as a as a kind of sanctioned Library of Congress. Service OK, so it's now up there. This authorities there redirects from the original UI, so kind of things will hopefully not not break and this is exposed using RDF A, as are many Scots vocabularies. Embedding structured data in markup. OK, so in our HTML pages and it's another example of some of some kind of enabling technology which will help to bring people into the semantic work world. The concept is a nice small piece of information that's going to Nestle, appear on the page, and really we have got these kind of parallel streams of human and machine readable information and aspects of the data that kind of served well by having the the the, the. The Scott allows us to do publication of knowledge organization systems. OK, so then the focus here is on publication OK rather than supporting guidelines for the construction of these things and we will talk about that a bit as we go on, and I think it provides a kind of a low cost entry to participation in the kind of semantic web data where there are many knowledge organization sources that are out there already. Some some vocabularies are kind of skip through this very quickly, so this is again this is the use of controlled vocabulary for doing local authority service classification in the UK. In terms of web based presentation, allowing preferred terms integration in other environments links to other datasets. So this is delivering cross vocabularies and services and the inclusion of things like widgets for user interaction, concept selection, that kind of be easily made, use of in other web pages to allow kind of searching over these vocabularies. Is this the kind of exposure of of information from Drupal OK and in Drupal 7 the use of our DFA and what's happening here as well is that this is a use of Scott for the representation and exposure of taxonomic information. Another bridge which potentially bringing users in and hear the score symbol is used for representing the kind of taxonomic information that might be there in a blog. And so this is the Union chain bridge. Link data we've got our standardized guidelines for publishing data. You arise for identification, useful information in the reference link to other ur eyes. We can see Scott's some. It's going to affect some inferences, but they may be closer to some interpretations of same as that we might use so. OK that that then kind of begs the question, what about domain and range restrictions? There's this strong metafora bridging the gap. This cost will enable us to bridge between different communities of practice, so I like this notion is kind of bridging the gap. It's a. So this is this is the Mancunian way OK? OK, because there are there are a number of issues going on here and if in effect that well, the final decision was that we kept the original namespace in the question here. Was that some of the vocabulary inside that namespace? OK, but that kind of innocence negates the benefit of maintaining the namespace 'cause you're still stuck. On that question, so the transitivity of semantic relationships so broader and narrower. So we can still query across transitive closures of these relationships, but but they're not transitive in in the. Application, but there's a. It was the roller coaster, published vocabularies and not indicate how they should be used and there is support from existing metadata vocabularies to handle links between. So we've got Scotts kind of inside our innocence costs as an Alpha ontology, so it steps outside the bounds of such TL DL. For Alto, can represent some of it, but not all of it. Lt. Then there are intended for different purposes. It's really about describing the way in which the domain fits together. OK, so painting the Forth Rail Bridge is is the phrase that describes something. There there's a certain question of you know, are we done yet? Yeah, so AW3C working Group is a constrained exercise. Lots of things that will might have wanted to do but couldn't because of the lack of kind of the existing recommendations to make you stop. Things like lack of time, lack of implementation, experience kind. There was a kind of a lack of time and lack of kind of implementation experience. Things like links between descriptors and non descriptors. So some of my personal history. Kinda back in the early 2000s and this was about trying to provide. We didn't have the kind of owl activity at that point. There was an existing infrastructure and tooling that we could use. What we kind of discovered kind of having when trying to kind of go through these things was that things like Al and Amal oil can reply.