[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you, thank you very much. It's been a pleasure and honor for me to be here tonight. Ann, you have any problems understanding me? Please raise your hand and ask the question. Bicol. I have several messages for the students respond this afternoon, actually. 1st and most important this. Don't be afraid of getting older. Because if you're afraid of getting older. Then you have to stop working and it's terrible thing to happen to you. Which scientist? You can go on working because nowadays technology is very powerful. I would use myself. His degenerative disease. Brainly but they've been lucky enough to have any dementia out of it. And you you will not avail them answer either, because then she will be defeated. Bye bye bye people. Before I was ten years Max alone. I know already. If I. Novak so back in. Who works everywhere in your profession, Germany presently? Any other vaccine? Therapeutic for assignment. Very powerful. The molecule is going to figure out timing properly. Very big news is waiting for part. Very generous of it. I wrote to him asking a little bit of that molecule, driving myself. Because it is. The molecule is due to. Take protein Tau. She also is involved in the family since a few years. A timer was believed to be only. Amyloids groups. But then people are not present at Cliffs dominated stable. And if you take the present output, you defeat the timer. That I can use the same stuff to try to fit my sickness is you'll see the moment, but so far it's doing and set. He knows you're a big thing, is sent to preserve it for his maximum. He can't because. Anybody who finds a cure for timer probably find this is way to Stockholm. If security is is clear, definitely. So don't be afraid of old age. Technical things. I my my own degeneration in the brain. Brings a fornia and my lungs to speak about. But then I have my microphone here. I've. I switch closed down. Because it is a praxilla, every movement in my body is slow down. Impeded any periodic movement on the brain is slow down, and then I Scroll down. But then I can hear it was totally new. To open it up. Tonight alive are still still open if you see me in a moment closing my eyes I'm not sleeping. I'm just every part of my sickness. But if you ever. Cure for that and you take it will be fine. So I'm 84 years old. Yes, I did a few years ago to take care of my own my own earth because nobody was doing it. It's very rare sickness mine. One person in a million. That's why then, cannot be cured by the doctors that was interested know whether serum sickness with me.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
It's very important to get the correct diagnosis when it is. 726 small micrographics called. Symptom come onto to Parkinson, it's my problem. I was misdiagnosed as a parkinsonian. For awhile, then you can quite apparent that I did not respond to level DOPA. Everybody knows that parking so responsibly with open. Yeah, tremors in the body and so on had no tremors, nothing. Then reply did not any parking soon. So I was called Parkinson's. Pakistan is a war that should be forbidden use of which which should be forbidden. Because this is misleading. Because it mean anything. In some there is. Page reflecting your motion. But then anything affect your motion. And they're not all. Unfortunately. Posting you mismanaged Alpha Synuclein, but can be Tau. Can be, I mean always can be many things. Shop. I. I will use that for 10 years almost. But I don't blame my doctor. With great guy. Professional pizza lost interest. A very great human being. An E. Media knows, maybe we'll never see the sick person like me never ever. And probably now after me not seen one either. Our frequencies running half a million minimum 1 million more likely. And this is 45 quarter million, so not likely to find another person like me. Shop.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
I think most committed either form of parkinsonism falling seem to focus. Her voice should be forbidden, complete lack of response level DOPA. Everybody attended those parking soon. No time with whoever. He wasn't in apartments and I was concentrating on the gate. It is common to partner. When you have practice on, you will swear. Play the door. You freeze there. Typically. You're going to elevator. You freeze my car for you, get in, but not not in a corridor when you're walking or for the freezing. That's not Parkinson. Happened to me many times. And I fell down. And I also broke shoulders several times. People love being attention to this freezing. You know I had it. I did warn me. As soon as I learn my expenses, three operation and shoulders that I had raising the gate, I pay attention. Twitter never fell anymore. But six year before. I found two paper. This this symptoms. Where question to defend business? Put everything on the gate. Importantly, people attention. Experience with doubling wasn't sensor packed with diagnosis. Since I speak poorly, I like to read my slides. You get more information or reading the slides. Listen to me, but. I will do my best.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Delete. When two plates are actually told him, what about if I have freezing of the gate? Pure canasia, which means basically like a woman. Not only in. In more emotion. Writing speaking everything slows down. And it will be no. Ever seen a person like you? So. Get Parkinsonism OK fine. Chicken tender. A paper of two or two H found myself. About this the conditional. Back in Asia. It means lack of motion. Worse. Such that. Adventure with nobody. Double din. If I don't let me already molecular signature. Diagnostic much easier. Later on. Screen above market study. Management bank.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So how would I notice in a difficult case by me get on these days? Let's consider it carefully. Good condition has all the symptoms very carefully and time where time when they come in.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Just one yesterday, seen at least a dozen patients like myself. I feel that there is a movement disorder clinic. Where all difficult people go there. New York yeah. And if it was Mayo Clinic in Arizona? At 40 patientslikeme. Well, that's where we place where I would go. Had nothing to do. Back down. That definitely know that they know they write about sensible things about my sickness. At 10:12, is enough to weather pattern after diagnostics. And there is covering a good Irish young man. I don't just insufficiency. On PSP Progressive supranuclear party. Basic tapati Yep. He Bagley. Don't mean it died. PSP or the other type type it don't give you dementia. Knocking is doing. 865 six months is factored PSB kids in 8th year precisely. Important factor. This made the sign. Specially opera, nudity, urologist that I don't have this fee. You're not ever seen anybody body like me. He had multiple. Scales of some sort, which I did not understand because it was easy to determine by anymore than the end but insisted on it. You understand, Nation with brands and presumptions. Eventually elect. Formula he was promoted went to Milan. Anna, did you say goodbye to me? Disappeared from the scene. Message out doctor. That one decided to go to Philadelphia. I have an apartment. At least in this. Movement centers movement problems with movement center Dr Coffee not met him. In the anime, she says I had PSP. PAGF is one way that Gnostics. I believe it because it was very reason very calmly reasoned. Very isolated from the rest.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And how do we know that it out with? I do not dislike PSP. Utility. One Castle, England. In ago, maniacs that they preserve everything. Everything in the brains of people. Queens Square brain bank. Where cylinder 50 brains and in clinical care. How did this App Store? And you can pick up your story, can be confronted with all these people. And I was. Can I be understood when I speak? Morris do my best. Then what? Saying atlantica the sickness of Iran. The 750 people. Or discussed in compare with mine. And is it Windows characteristic feature like response to hold over? Notre Dame or so and so forth. And very carefully. 607 cases on 7 clinical description. 15 is description. 70607 where alberty Seven was average snow clean back from disease. Another practice is easy. This case. Maybe you can use partitioning properly. At. This case. Stop talking about this. Stein the tissues, taken from postmortem tissues, autopsies. These people. And if they find particular stadium in 88. I did not know that the time I learned only recently 88 antibody anti Tau 8. Antibody then they discovered this apathy. Tell Patrick this is. Means there is too much production of Southwest protein and you're in trouble because of that. OK. Therefore. Postmortem investigation.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
I don't get paid for last 66 pattern by patients and after smoking in the 7th through the balance of these approx remember center and the PSV Richardson confident of that. 1% of that is 1. Getting half a million population. 1 million platform demolition. Of course. You can do statistics anymore that level scarcity of information. Have one person per million population. I think it is in their own West Coast, United States. Looking to rival statistics. Look what you can do best. You hope for the best. And I don't know that this best visitor had faulty cases like us. Establish the sickness. With more confidence.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
But the fact that they were found dead after eight years? Spending six months was indecisive. Part of my diagnostics. SBSB knowing that I had. Aperam Etowah party, but you don't. I'm eight years so I could not have written syndrome. Associates so phenotype is this. Eco movement. Get freezing electrifying decided to ever. So stormy. And it was fine.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Nowadays a timer came into the scene Becausw. When you have to party. He also tell misbehavior timer. He kind of clips clipping the beta amyloids. Collections is adventure. Clip steady thank you from there. If I feel liberated, I mean eyes from there now. You may sorry about ow. At the diagnostics. That that. Vaccine therapeutic vaccine was I was referring to Mr. Novak recently. And follow the detector. He should have gone public at the end of September. Public will be there or strawberry. He will go public. Be a major discovery. But there's not gonna face retrial. Discussing how do you know? Double blind. Recibo run. Very useful. I just talking about. His desire right now as we speak. It's not that I work too much. Becausw he asked the person I want more amount of data sense. You see, while the application as we have quite a think. The following. You make stem cells. Outlandish over sick person. Then on the stem cells. Differentiate into neurons. Then try antibodies. And if you have a signal and then you have a sick person and you have desire, Gnostics. That's what we need. The news is sadly when she was working for me. Not sign any other papers. No regret it, but. Being generated at time. I will let you know how the hospital said that I'm broken shoulder. Poisoning of antibodies. Of an. Bodies. Opening off. Over. Small issues. Your clan. Department head was. Which one is yours? Not antibodies. Anne. This morning you take it out. You take it also for your cough. Yes. Boy come back to me in a moment. Send it to my fax, send it to me. Equals. Alaska Coast government journey. , don't hear you. I don't hear you. Antibiotics OK? Antibiotics? And their terrible stuff. A cure. You kill the flora in your belly. But if you take too many they kill you totally. He was about to be killed with them because the surgeon told me to take them until there. My sign analysis work better. Check there for seven weeks, which is crazy totally crazy. Direct seven weeks is possible. But I told them they could also said so. Taught me a lesson to have my own opinion, but grantmaking? That moment on. Show antibiotics. And. Show we need now to to have signature which is molecular for the sickness. Follow this outpost in. Not when it gets out of the center. Said that in your own Valley. But I guess in the blood will be sticky both in. Ballistics, everywhere it was only on the veins everywhere and disappears. Is Cheryl and silvers. Spider 7 also very very little. Here we analyze it properly. .5 Phantom or concentrations if you want to decide it, your tacos in your blood. Nobody can do that, and I only. Therefore. Think it over. Think about the nearest Sally work on Niemann pick. How is your day? Be different genetic disease disease. My doctor jerseys again. Helper T is a sporadic disease. Decided to go after it say where she did directed Jesus, so let's first see what she did. Or didn't Jesus easy but diagnostics Ray is. You know what you have, you always come out. Come out eventually and I. Early to late, but. He did that prediction or disease. Be safe. There nothing is easy. Sense, however useful, because I'm sure this sounds weird, is using it. Not in the brain on a bench. You went through the South. He says become better English song or they lose. Discover cursor on stuff like this then. You can try this same stuff later on on a human being. So let's see what she did. She talk.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Even picky. Summer sale in Fascinator now reason. Studies are there. Chloe alarm function. NBC One MPC 2%. Have to pretend misbehave there. I figured out what in this case is. NC 2 and 601.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
She took fresh skin samples. Make him regress to stem cells. Eventually they won't do neurons. Thank you, found the new is the person was sick. And the new ones were also single course becausw, digesting it is your DNA is seriously there. Escape.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
It had no avail yourself with the egg. Stem cell. New Mail, even tables here. You know? Protocol looks very simple, but very difficult to find. The red headed people try and error. Knowledge about stem cell, how they talk to each other, how you develop. Also, the information within City cycle stinks. Then you can graduate.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
In the under control will be. The skin skin example Lt version. You can see the Niemann pick on the right control on the left, very different neurons. Impede disease. You have very sick.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
If you want to see from the morphology initially already there, they misbehaviors neurons. When you look at them with atomic force microscope. Microscope, is there a solution or service that you can have him? And it will work off. Of radical. Parma, I need to Parma. And she looked at them. And their bowl. R. Controls even picking middle.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Look at the first major difference. Many more new rights. Developing neurons. An the linear shape typical nuances was lossed. OK, great indication in the vessel sink. And you can treat them and see if the neurons come back through. Norma. And then you can learn about mechanism of disease. Anything you can do. You can look into this sense that Jesus methods. We are looking at them in my case. You look very Russian. Across movie. And then you see if it says the person dies in the new clothes outside of it. Wait, wait, stall. Then you can learn a few things about. Bad things here. Make a new right is called. Is effective new right? Engine effective. Understand decided to make him mad.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Very good thank you. Develop and even be patient. Maybe what directions have normally pizza combination cholesterol? Underside of project changes. Indigenous

[493.0s - 522.0s]
This personalized computer model can be used to understand the medical badges for him, even pick disease. Will it impact with different mutations with logical phenotype? Home Depot schedule Saturday. #3 is really important. How to take like this event? It is basically PSP. If it's the trial going on, especially in Japan. Every month. Yes, over there. Hewlett Spire preparation. Who's out? I have just got done. And in marathon. A. Artist bomber jacket robot battle. No good diagnostics. And. Therefore. He offered to meet a bipartisan study. I refused. Because Mr. War did not differentiate within normal PSP and Mike type of PSP. Otherwise, two persons participating in this study. Will be freezing on the gate. Any fuses? Anita did fine. Moreover, or a chance it will take place Ebo. Therefore. That way it will end the study to learn something about it. I say wait wait lender study. Same. The information shop. It is very important to screen for Gragas using these sets. He says are sick. You can make them good with treatment. Then you can go. Never your face entirely much more confidence. Analogies have not interested days. Their skin gas from a patient, even with the stem cells. Defendant renewals see the neurons as news become good. Then you can do it. Screening of drugs Artesia. I wrote that to Mr. Nova telling. If you give me your substance myself. Probably not. Yeah, it's me, but. I think he misses the boat because he could not. To learn English classes are much more confidence. He said. He says if used medicine appointed his desires. Visitor. Airport. You know people are. Authorities crash about.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Then just check it. Accept my proposal to do it myself. I should sooner. It's not my business, not my belly. I never had pants with this type of pockets. My wife there with this is not my belly. Is somebody is waiting to have anymore suction done on his belly? And indeed, she introduced me to a surgeon. Aesthetic surgery Mr Paradis junior. They need a soccer. Three security CM. Extremely tomato into her diet, actually. I lost £10 on my own. I am though. 10 kilograms to 10 pounds, 20 pounds. So, but I was shame to see what people were doing to lose weight. I found the strength for losing weight this way. But that's not my belly there. Never little pockets like this one. Show consideration mean for Essent Organisee multiple. They make New Orleans store let me put in violence and get it.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
You tell me when it's time for me to clot. It's OK. A number to lean is the person who is. Later I'm going to show it to you in a moment. She's very income for growing cells. She sees herself as a technician. Not a scientist. That would mean certain best technicians and scientists. We are not successful. Environment in Italy is still very old fashion. Technicians that look so down. As not scientists. But at least I've had these files and concern if they want to be like this. So I ask. Lady to continue working for me. Share your event reaction. Stop it permanent position. Actually no. Stop working on developing self. So far. Till the researchers. Where is innocent little body. I want quite a senior researcher. At Squadron minus William Pizza. Not succeed yet. But in pizza. But news from. Christina the premium. Is there? Santana school. She said she had evidence. Later can be repeated. Her microscope or low performing the day she wanted to show me the images. Lynn Barry learning the ropes. Make sure, see mistakes first. She told me. How to cure? Oh yeah, probably catch up with reality. Going to be OK, but. This lady or a God sent for me. Established that the tablet in my body could be cool. Bye. Immoral, immoral. Well, Marty goes. Ann, now I'm waiting to find the right molecule to do it. I will show you the results.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
H&M 21. So you have your old woman. Actually 1:30. He's your man. Both healthy faces myself. 84 years old.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
No, no you hear you. The wall. Not exactly in this. Maybe one radiations? No final days. But basically

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Seriously? It is. Looking over toys toys. Read this case. Can you see the rental tower around? As the person.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Is actually 50 year old.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Is myself. Scared you the same. See if it's anomaly. Sensor bloaters in reading about driving for too much time. Will you blow up, baby? Perfect.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
You know all antibodies. Man 1000. Edge follow up. Talented membranes. I understand, but none of them is is indicative of the disease. As you show you immediately as it is short.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Echo. 88 Saint Monica people users. In the Broadway bank in London to study. And as you can see, healthy person doesn't have any. Is it is that red dots in the nuclei? At the end of the story. So easy lady.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Man. I need mine. He does sinusitus owner. Your camper. Off teleport in. Basically finishes here. You can find out. I assume antibody users in the town Rd Brain Bank. That I said so sick. Therefore you get eventually hoping to make some good too. And how did Marco? Here, here. Yes. Are you? If you want to be a friend of mine. Looking for an antibody. It washes makes sense. You will do fine. I just said this could be centimeters. Oh adipose tissue again. Mr Paradis. On the millions of cells still there still there. You find a way to wash this setup. Bite albertine I'm going to buy you a dinner minimum or once at all. Because I waited. Or Mr over public. How to find work alone? How about your chance for passing the blood brain barrier? While , antibody is not. Horse in this case I was able barrier going to the cells with her on the bench there. But we can start. It is a nobody. We find it we can go. Animal your mother already is. And then did you wanna be? Finish. I don't believe she really think it will be able to do it before. Dying about a year or so. But the hope is it has to say anything as they say. I don't put them on. Only shoulder all the responsibility of finding cure for me, but if he does. Activated base will be nice. Finish. Thank you. Questions from the audience. Yes. So thank you for that nice presentation and. Have a question that is related to the number of passions there that is. Normal problem in rare diseases, so if you try to just cure with the same drug. People that are have a bad diagnostic. Yeah, can you hear me? What other things have you very well? Repeat your question. Yeah, so if we just use one single name for. Pulling people with different but similar diseases they have. Finally we don't get a drug that is good for all of them, so most of them will be not treated. Yeah, but then the problem is that if we do correct diagnosis then we have groups of people with rare diseases. They are too small. For yeah, useful research is very difficult. Yeah, because exactly the number are low. So in this case, or in the case of this kind of neurodegenerative, the narrative and diseases. Is there any animal model that develop spontaneous similar diseases that can be used also for integrating the number of passion? I do not understand your question. Commentary for NIA. So. For instance, in the case of of other rare diseases, like some kind of cancers, we can use different animals that developed exactly the same kind of cancer, but no more frequent than humans. And so because of this we have. 5 cases on a million humans but 5000 in another animals. Is there any animal that could serve? As alternative to humans that have the same kind of spontaneous disease, kind of spontaneous, not induced. Same kind of what? In your case, neurodegenerative disease but with the same characteristic that have plenty plenty of cases. For the so difficult case like mine or in the medium. 10,000. Where were you? 4 cases in Barry? Storing their cells. And we're going to treat it. The stem cells and neurons and find out what the opposing doing there. Yeah, but in the in vivo system that can also support the research. Yes, animals, but it's very difficult in this case. So big from animals to humans. Very difficult because for instance. It is always higher in talking to you, not being demented, because the brains sense in my brain stem cells. Everybody. We should give me advantage anyway. Who's Mike your marker into aspire to go out? Passing from there may be sitting properly in my brain, but it's just a guess. I'm making a present. So. It is. He is difficult. As soon as she goes to you, once it baby you don't want to touch it. If I use this at first. And you know how much money Big Pharma spends for testing drugs, screening drugs, huge amounts of monies? You are sexy. You did them, you see them. Then you. You save a lot of money. I convinced that if I was young man who could hold energies in this system. And then try to sell it to big farmers. Making lots of money. Monitor to motivate me. But members with other people. Any? If not, let's thank the speaker again.
