And I've I've called it anti academic research. If you if you ask questions, I'll just repeat it for the camera, but don't don't hesitate to interrupt anytime really. So when you work with contaminated samples, when you think about the rental genomes etc. Because BWA, for example, spends six times more time on reeds that in the end get mapping quality zero. So what is the problem now? So here I wrote what is the chance that we have at least 17 correct nucleotides in a row on that? In 2009 they wrote a book here which was called Analytic Combinatorics. What is the scientific process? Is this one is that you have a problem here, which is a combinatorics problem. So you translate your problem into generating functions. When you have a question like this, what is the chance that I read has a set of size 17 option number one is you do the math here, but who likes that? So I was very happy that someone that caliber would read my blog and. OK, so that's where we are. There was made copies of each other, so these sequences here are not independent, statistically speaking, and so we need to find a model. Yeah, it's time to wrap up anyway, so just wanted to present you that, but you understand it's an example of the way we work that we connect information and so the most important, let's say piece of information I wanted to give you today is that this is 1 example of the research which is entirely in the academic underworld started on my blog. With the conversation I had with the with the Gov Blast. It was mostly through the non academic channels. I'll put it here in bigger than where you could use a rapid heuristic, but estimating with confidence your chances of missing something and he made a point very, very clear in his email correspondence with me that I did not really make a lot of big fuss about it in the blog post, but he said there is nothing new wind blast. There's a like a mini algorithm to compute this mapping quality and the score tells you the probability that the location is wrong. So if you have a score of 10, it means that. This mapping quality is just not correct here, but you cannot see is so the claim mapping quality years in the X axis.