[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you very much for this nice introduction 1. One of the one of the reasons I gave is because we have these limited constructs. I was telling German, you know, I'm not even sure I'll be able to be there. Until the end of your PhD, turns out that actually he's leaving before me, so there was a bit of miss planning here. Anyway, thank you very much for this great introduction in the back. If I speak like that, is that OK? Can you hear me OK? Thanks for the feedback. Well, welcome everybody and welcome to this. A little bit of an experiment of a talk I've got not a clear idea of how I'm going to deliver the talk and what I'm going to talk about. But I hope it's going to be fun anyway. So like I said, it's an experiment I've seen already since yesterday and from today a little bit the conditions of giving the talk. So it's pretty clear that from the 3rd row behind nobody can see the screens. Also, it's pretty clear that I'm just before dinner that you've had a lot of information, so you're probably very tired and you don't feel like seeing a lot of equations, solving problems, etc. So I wanted to give you something useful. Also give you something you could understand if possible. And so I've decided to make the talk this way. So what I would like to talk about is not how amazing I am, but how amazing I'm trying to be. Alright, so the idea of this talk is not to show you what we do, but how we're trying to do what we do. This is something that we never talk about, so at least I never talked about so far and that's why I'm very happy to do this experiment today with you, just to tell you how I try to do research. I'm going to take an example of the kind of research I like, of course, and something in which we have the impression we're making progress on, but with the talk is not about this. If you like what I'm going to show, that's great, but I don't care really. I just would like you to be able to follow a little bit the logic. And kind of, you know, look inside the process of doing research so that we can share a little bit on that topic, not on the amazing findings that we have, but more on the way we're going to try and make these findings at the scientific level, the academic level. And I've I've called it anti academic research. You'll see why in a moment, becausw the research I'm going to talk about is done a little bit in a non conventional way. And of course, I'd like it to be interactive, so I understand that you guys are not recorded on the microphones or for the purpose of the camera. If you if you ask questions, I'll just repeat it for the camera, but don't don't hesitate to interrupt anytime really. It's made to be an experiment. I don't want to be alone to practice anytime disagree with me or anything or you want to comment, just interrupt me and we'll solve it. And if we don't have time to finish the talk, it doesn't matter at all really. We're not here for that. OK so? Very good.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The first thing I'd like to talk about is that when we do research, part of it is really puzzle solving. So we are given a problem and we are given some time to solve it and then this is your task to do whatever you can to solve the problem. That is usually given to you by your supervisor by someone who is a little bit higher up in the hierarchy, but that's not really what academic research is about. OK, Demik research is about finding the problem, funding the question, so one of the things that we never talk about. At least in the discussions that we have, even in schools and even less in, you know, typical PowerPoint presentations in the Congress is is that we need to decide what is a good question and we need to learn how to attack a problem to choose a problem in the proper way so. One of the things I invite you to do already, whatever is your career level now, is to think a little bit about the question and not about the answer that much. So what I'm going to present today is really oriented on the questions that we have and the answers that we give. We have some answers because they're quite technical as well. I'm not going to present them to you in very much detail, but it's not the point. The point is, I would like you to understand the questions that we ask when we think they're important, and we think that people should spend some time and some brain energy on these questions. So here is just very general slides to invite you to reflect on the questions and to think that in the academia the questions, or at least as important as the answers that we give. Still not working of course.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
OK, so now I'll tell the story pretty much as it happened, but one of the research lines that happens in my lab and so the story starts on my blog. So for those of you who know it, it looks like that it's very famous for being read, and that's pretty much the only thing that people remember about it. But what I tried to make it about this statistic, not just about the red color and some time ago. So that's here in 2014. After discussion I had with some colleagues, I wrote a little blog post about. June Babies and banned for mattix. So the point of this blog post was to explain that there was this June babies effect. It's an article that I found I can't remember where where people were saying that babies were born in June like people were born in June. I've got more chance of being anorexic when they, when they're like teenagers, etc. And this was absolutely not true. It was just mishandling of statistics, and because back then people had kind of made the mistake that. You have to correct for multiple testing, as simple as that. They were looking for an extreme effect and so I was just mentioning that you got many papers or like this that don't realize that on simple problems like this you still have to correct for multiple testing and when you do that there's no effect whatsoever. If you're born in June, don't freak out, you're not going to be anorexic. It's OK, I mean. You may you may not based not related with the fact that you born in June. OK, so don't worry about this. So I made this blog post and the idea was we need to make people a little bit more aware of the problems of multiple testing and that this can actually lead to problems of this kind and that it was actually an important thing that in the creation of Blast the software to align sequences they actually solve that problem. They solve the June baby problem. The fact that they needed to find the statistics for some kind of extreme score. And this is what made blast fast. So that's the way it started. Very simply like that. And the conclusion was. Last is awesome because they solved the June babies problem. And then it could've mindset. Oh, this is so cool. Let me send that to the creator of Blast, with David Lipman. So the creator of Blast read my my blog and said, well, you didn't get it quite right actually. So then you explain to me exactly how they how the blast and then we had a couple of email exchange. So I was very happy that someone that caliber would read my blog and.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
In the end, I was kind of forced to make a follow up story about this, where I would explain really what he told me. That email exchange, so I'm in another blog post by explained how Blast works and so here this is this particular part. I of course put some quotes from him because he explains it much better than me at least understands it much better than me. And this is this particular quote that really grabbed my attention. Kind of the way that you know you think about it. You say this thing must be. I don't know why, but this thing must be important and I'd like to be able to understand that you really understand the wisdom of it. So it's a long quote. I'll be just the part that matters. So one day, while doing the dishes, it sort of occurred to me that what Cardinals result would allow you to do was to put the seed based juristic methods on the sound statistical framework. Whatever that's not the important part now comes the important part. That way you could use a rapid heuristic, but estimate with confidence your chances of missing something. So that's the one sentence that really keep me intrigued for a very long time. This is 2014 still. OK, so.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
This is a quote from the guy who created blasts. I'll put it here in bigger than where you could use a rapid heuristic, but estimating with confidence your chances of missing something and he made a point very, very clear in his email correspondence with me that I did not really make a lot of big fuss about it in the blog post, but he said there is nothing new wind blast. Blast is not in you algorithm. People thought that blast was fast because there was a new algorithm. It's not true. He says it's true. It's fast because of that. OK, just because they did the stats right. What the problem they had before is that you need to kind of find some homology between your sequence in the database and the card in the dimensions in the in the sentence before is the statistician who solved the problem. But as this decision, it didn't really quite see much more beyond the statistical problem. So you want the you want the probability. I'll give it to you, but here you go and it was computable in a reasonable time, but it's the genius of Leap Man. Read to see what you can do with that. If you've got a good statistical model for your algorithm, then you can make it better, but also faster, OK. And so why is that? We're going to see a little bit more on the theme of this study, but that's the essential idea that I got from David Lipman. The other essential idea that I got from him is that people did not quite get that when you read the way people present blasts. They say it works like that. Works like that and you get this score, and that's awesome. So it was really only the creative blast himself telling me. Everybody got it wrong. You know, they think it's a new algorithm and it was just getting the statistics, writes an using algorithms that existed before and I thought, well of course the guys are genius. You know it's pretty good, but this is kind of sad in the sense that the main idea of his of his old karere has been completely missed. Everybody uses blast, and that's great good for him. They use blast because it's fast, but they don't know why it's fast and it's been kind of a little bit because too complex people get get the point that this is the main the main idea. I got me thinking that maybe we know we should use a little bit this approach a bit more in what we do. So by now you've understood that my talk is not going to be about deep learning. It's going to be about anti deep learning, but so the idea is maybe to use another strategy then just did love deep learning. Really I'm not against it at all. I use it a lot. I think it's great, but it's not the only way to solve problem. Another way is to think of the problems in kind of radical ways and this is one of them. And I've realized that this idea it should. We should all be doing that. Right now all the problems that we have absolutely all of them are heuristics. We never solve problems with exact methods anymore because. They all solve these ones. You don't have them anymore like starting stuff. That's OK. We're done with that. What remains to be done or problems on huge datasets and we need to use approximations, heuristics and it makes sense to understand how this touristics work makes that.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Physical model thread and then try to improve the things so. The my way of thinking was. The problem where is the problem now is not in the realm of sequence alignment of protein blast orbit quite nicely. The problem now is in the realm of the mappers. So the big data is really at the DNA sequencing level, not very much at the protein databases anymore. So we've got this huge amounts of data that go through the mappers everyday and pretty much what happens to almost every read at the end of the day is to be mapped OK, so starts with whatever you have to do goes to a sequencer and at the end of the day. You can do several things with it, but I think that about 80% of the time the read ends up being mapped, so this is something that we need to make as efficiently as possible. OK, there's a lot of computational power and resources that go in that process, and there's one particular step that is very dear to me that I'd like to talk a little bit more in detail today.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So when you when you look at the sequencing output, if you do, it's usually this complicated. There there are set here. This is called the same format or the band format when it's compressed. You don't really need to know if you know where it is. That's great you understand what I'm talking about. If you don't know where it is, it's OK. Relax, just doesn't matter at all. The point is that you got plenty of fields of interest, and there's one in particular here, which is the mapping quality OK, and so the mapping qualities is supposed to tell you. How confident the mapper is in giving the particular location for reads. They have a genome takes the reads it goes there I think and my confidence in my own call is like I'm very confident or I am not sure OK. And so the way it's supposed to work is that there's a. There's a like a mini algorithm to compute this mapping quality and the score tells you the probability that the location is wrong. So if you have a score of 10, it means that. You have one error in 10 reads the score of 21 Area 100 reads is this course 30s. Whenever in 1000 reason. So it goes logarithmic. So you gotta score 40. Just wondering 10,000 weeks. Probability for each rate? Is it the probability for each feed the answer is yes. Yeah, I'm not sure I understand your question. It's supposed to represent the probability just encoded in log space, that's all. So that's a bit confusing, but you quickly get used to it. Quality 61 error in a million you've got. Typically I don't know 200 million reads nowadays on the sequencing Lane, so if they all had quality 60 you'd get 200 errors and all the rest would be fine. OK, so that's the more less what it means. This mapping quality. That's the one that's there. Doesn't matter very much. I'm pretty sure that nobody can see anywhere from the from the back, but it doesn't matter.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Much OK, so also it's something that people complain a lot. If you read the blogs and if you read what people say about mapping quality to see all sorts of complaints about it. So there is this guy Keith Bradnam who has these two flame flame posts about mapping quality so this one is called understanding mapping quality map Q scores in some file does 37 = 42. So of course that's not a real question. That's a rhetorical question. And then the follow up post a more madness with mapping quality scores. Also known as why Ben for magicians hate poor and incomplete software documentation, so his main point was that you tell us that this is mapping quality, but you don't tell us how you compute this and what this means and why. One mapper gives 37 as the Max or the ones 42, and then there's this guy here. Who says? How does Booth die to assign mapping quality scores so he has to reverse? Engineer is a lot of work to just reverse engineer what booty to actually does because they don't tell you. They just said this is the mapping quality and when you read the papers that they will be computed this way when you read the code. If you do then you see that this has nothing to do with the paper, so the diverse super fast. So obviously they got you know something weird is happening here. Why? Why do people did different things? Why is it the case that people cannot even explain what they do? We'll see about this in a minute. So many people are quite unhappy with the way mapping parties treated because it's a standard. OK, it should. It should be that probability, and if you think about it, if one of them is a maximum of 37 and the other one is maximum 42, they cannot be both correct. OK, so obviously there's something a little bit here.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And when you do the test yourself, you realize that it's also completely wrong. OK, so as simple as that. This mapping quality is just not correct here, but you cannot see is so the claim mapping quality years in the X axis. What you measure when you do experiments just in city code you take the reads and then you generate them at random. And if things were fine. They should. The points should just fall exactly on the straight line and I hope that you can see even if you're in the back that the points are absolutely not in this trade liners. As soon as you go to quality 20 and up and that's for BWA. That's my favorite map are both. iTunes is also a great mapper, and it also doesn't fall very much on the line, so the point is that whatever mapping polity they say they don't explain how they got there and they are not what they claim they are. And so you'd say, yeah, here goes bad fanatics again. Or just like you know, the usual stuff not explaining what happens very well, etc. But we'll see exactly whether this is. You know who is to blame for that, basically.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So at that point, because I invite you to reflect on the questions and on whether questions are interesting or not. So one could say is mapping quality useful at all? Like, do we actually need mapping quality for anything? After all, you just want to be as right as often as possible, but why would you need to know exactly mapping quality perception so far anyway? The scores are wrong, and so people seem to be able to do math mattix anyway. We do diagnosis that right it works, we can. We can do pretty much everything we want nowadays so. Is that really important? And I'd say in many cases it's not. It doesn't matter at all whether you have a good mapping quality, I mean an accurate mapping quality or not, but in some cases email, so these are examples of cases that I can think of. Invite you to think about this as well, like like is mapping quality important for you problems? If you work with with any reads or or any reads, so one of them is sequencing mutations. Permutation calling so you have to be you have to be kind of a little bit aware of the problem that's in cancers. The mutations typically have low frequency and that's what makes the problem kind of difficult because you have the frequency of the mutation, which is kind of low and at some point it can be quite close to the error rate of the sequence of themselves. Nowadays error rates of the sequences are getting lower as well. So now we start to have a bigger differential than it was a couple of years ago, but still the way these things are called in general is that you map the read and you say it goes there and this is a different nucleotide. And therefore then this is a mutation or what it could be? Is that no, that was not mapping there in the 1st place was mapping there. But you just miss mapped it and you're very confident that it goes there and then there is a mutation. But what you missed is that it actually goes there and there is no mutation. So this mapping quality here is read, write drives your confidence whether there is a mutation or whether there isn't a mutation. So at least for that problem you have to keep an eye on the mapping quality. And if something says mapping quality 60 then you're going to trust it. That means one Justin Miller. It doesn't go there. But what about this mapping? Quality 60 was? Actually.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
A mapping quality less than 30 like it actually is unbeatable. You OK, so like your chance that you estimated 1 million, it's only one in 1000. Ah.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And that makes the call. Maybe not as confident as it used to be. Alright, so that's just one thing. Another thing is denovo assembly. That's also something that you need to do at some point. There's a mapping step in which you put the ends of 1 read on the beginning of another, and here is the same. You need to have some sort of confidence whether this is right or wrong. If you make one error, then you gotta complete Miss assembly, and so that's pretty bad. So you need to know whether you are going to map these ads like that, or you're not going to map designs like this and that depends. Indirectly, on the mapping quality at some point. So these are examples from additions and others are examples more biologists. So when you work with contaminated samples, when you think about the rental genomes etc. So you have human like modern human DNA in the sample as well, like this is impossible to not have human denero, so they do whatever they can, but you always have these things and you have to tell whether you 100% sure or whatever person sure that this goes in the nerd Ertel genome on the human genome. So indirectly they benefit from very good mapping quality here like. I don't know exactly how they do this, but these are questions when you know that your samples can come from one or another genome, you need to wear that confidence whether it's really coming from the right genome, especially when they're very close like that. Another thing would be to have universal sequencing so these are projects that are very difficult, but that happens in some projects of large scale. With this sequence, absolutely everything, it's it's what a colleague of mine does in in Sweden, so they have this air filters where they have recorded whatever was in the air since 40. 50 years and the sequencing the hell out of it, but they get viruses. They get birds, they get bacteria, everything and they still get a lot of pigs actually. So you get one here of a pig that gives in the filter so well. Anyway, there's a lot of pigs in the filter, but you need to be able to to map the whole thing in the whole tree of life. Basically, and for example you take well, read it says that coming from a human or from a chimpanzee is not completely clear or from another related mammal etc so. Again, for this kind of problems, you need to be able to develop good confidence scores. To say I'm sure it goes in that genome or in that genome, but we're very far at the moment for being able to do universal sequencing very, very far, so you need to use tricks and still things are kind of only at the very grass level, so this is one problem that belongs to tomorrow's mathematics, not to two days. And of course, the other reasons. So these are like the reasons to make better biology, but the other one is the one that David Lippman was saying. So here I put the code again. I'm not going to read it again. Is that it's also a matter of efficiency. If you have a good understanding of this mapping quality, you can actually save time. How is that possible? Because BWA, for example, spends six times more time on reeds that in the end get mapping quality zero. OK, so like you spend, let's say something like 16 to 20% of the time on the reeds that were going to be mapped with quality, good quality and you spent. Almost all the time, like almost the entire time of the run, is dedicated to things that you will say anyway. I don't know where they go, so this doesn't look very, very optimal. If you could actually workout a little bit. The method to say if you knew that you won't be able to tell before that you would not even have to do the work from the beginning, which is basically the idea of blast. OK, so try to get an idea first whether you're going to be able to tell something about this particular reader through right away because you spent almost all the time on this thing and in the end you throw them away. OK, so these are the ideas that make me think that maybe this is an interesting problem.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So what is the problem now? So there's the one, maybe the one technical slide in the whole talk. So why is it the case that it's such a mess? Basically it's 'cause the way the mappers work is that they use a heuristic which is called seeding and fundamentally is quite quite simple to understand, so you have a read here and somewhere you have an error which is represented with this black square. So it means that the sequencer just it missed. It didn't sequence the right the right nucleotide, so this nucleotide is just not the right one. But of course you don't know this. OK, you don't have a black black thing here that says nucleotides miss sequence for you. It looks white, but there is a black thing somewhere and you will be able to map the reads if you have enough nucleotides in a row that are sequenced perfectly. So here you have all this stretch that here before the error goes here and the way the map is work is that they try to find perfect alignments in the genome. So you need to have these perfect nucleotides there and the longer is that stretch here, the more you'll be able to find where the read actually goes. But if the stretch is too short, the way this touristics work is that you won't be able to find the right place. So the question boils down. So here I wrote what is the chance that we have at least 17 correct nucleotides in a row on that? 17 is the user parameter OK, so the mappers disid 17 or whatever based on their wisdom? And so here you have a read of size whatever, and the chances. The sorry the question is what is the probability that there is 17 nucleotides without error in that read and that question my friends is really hard. I thought it would be super simple that you would be a binomial distribution etc. And it's surprisingly painful to answer such a simple question like that and it's so painful that none of the smart people who develop BW and bow tie. Had the answer and This is why it's a mess. It's just because such a stupid question as this one. Is much much more challenging than people. Imagine that first, so everybody a little bit like me, thought come on an afternoon pen and paper. We're going to work on it, and surprisingly, it's not the case. It's like very, very surprisingly, hard question. Given the simplicity of the statements. OK, so that's essentially the main reason why mapping quality is bad nowadays is because that extremely simple problem doesn't really have a good solution. Believe it or not, impact formatics. Of course, some people out there who are smarter than us and they have solved it in other contexts, but in mathematics. This hasn't really percolated, so you can always do simulations. You can record the things, etc. But still like how to solve that very simple problem in simple terms, it's not easy, and then so if you do not have these stretch of perfect nucleotides on the read, it won't be mapped. So you're going to have an unmapped reads. That's the first where things can go wrong. The 2nd way things can go wrong is that the errors here. Will make the Reed look like another place in the genome. OK, so it's possible after all that this particular nucleotide here would actually make it look like that new stretch here, including the wrong black nucleotide, would be a perfect match for another region in the genome. And this is where things can go wrong, and then you get wrongly mapped reads. OK, so these are the ones people want to avoid, like the chance the main question that you try to answer when you make a map projector is. What is the probability of that and that is more difficult? The first problem is surprisingly difficult, but this one is unsurprisingly difficult when you think about it, you realize that now you have a big combinatorics problem, that the chance that this whole thing here, including the black nucleotide, would look like something else in the genome. It's less easy to compute, obviously, but if you can answer that, then you can answer how often the mapper goes wrong, and you can at least give a better guess of. What the mapping quality is alright so far so good. Any questions so far? Maybe it's beneficial to invent some. Metrics between the uniform for different tools, metrics to measure the quality of market. A metric to like a metric to measure the quality of mapping where to some extent the map, the map, Q score, mapping quality is such a metric. OK, so I think it's a good idea to say the probability of being wrong is the best metric that we that we can come up with. The problem though with that metric, is that we don't know how to compute it. Not easily, but the like, let's say the Realm where it applies, just being a probability, I think makes sense. What I would wish is that people, instead of tweaking the parameters of the mapper, would say I want to have that risk. Now there's the risk I'm getting ready to take. Let's say I don't want to have more than one chance in 1000 of being wrong or something like this. Or once in 10,000, because the users can weigh their own. You know, the two costs. But because we're not able to link the parameters to these problems anyway, then we're not really helping them. They have to re calibrate on every problem to measure their costs, but I mean nobody does that, you just use the default parameters. Of course, any other questions while I'm at it. No, get OK.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So now that's the questions I had, but still I'm cheating a little bit because these are questions that took me years and years to think about. So how do you even develop their thinking for the questions? And this is the part of the talk. Now when I'm going to explain how information flows out, how it got gathered, etc. To get the ideas that we have now, about how to answer this problem so it all started with the Golden Golden era of course era, which was the 1st two years. Basically because everything was for free and they were really looking for clients for the future clients because back then it was all for free and they got many very good teachers to present their their courses. ETC and I got truly hooked up on Coursera so I stopped even going to the lab. Was just watching Corsair at home and then just whatever poetry, history, anything I just loved. Loved it and in particular there was this class by Robert Cedric here who was talking about the analysis of algorithms. And I mean it was just in my list of to watch lists in mechanism, things to watch and there was no particular reason why I watched it. But again, when I saw the class, I realized, OK, there's something about this class. I don't know exactly what that is. But it's pretty clear that this maybe can be useful. But then I I went down and then I finished the other classes, but this was about 2012, 2013 that I watched this discourse error class here. I have no particular reason and I just start when I watch the class. It's nice, it's cool. I don't know exactly why this is useful, but I think at some point it may.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And so in this particular class, it presents analytic, torex. So there's something I thought I knew what that was, and I didn't actually. So this is a topic that's a little bit of a fad, something that's in a corner, etc. And I would like to present very briefly for you. The main concepts of analytic community works. And so the history of the field starts from around 1963 here with Donald Commute to Guy who is the writer of the Art of Scientific Computing. So here's the first guy is credited for being the one who introduced the analysis of algorithms by using these big O notations for the speed of algorithms, etc. So I'm not sure he invented all the concepts, but is credited for being widely. The person who pushed for less using proper mathematics to analyze algorithms. And his PhD students Robert Cedric. So the guy who looks much much older now like in 75. Was working under the direction of Donald Coots, so we've got plenty of the ideas from Dundalk Note, and he met up with Phillip Pleasure in 1977 at a conference and the exchange. A couple of words, they realized that they were actually working on the same problem, and they started collaboration ever since. 77 and these two guys, just the two of them, have created the field of analytical Minotaur. Reeks, of course, after after the 70s, some other people have kind of joined the fun. It's at Russo. Let's say even if these two were the starters, other people still, I'm not acknowledging that were contributing quite a lot. In 2009 they wrote a book here which was called Analytic Combinatorics. So that's a textbook. It's it's relatively thick that contains pretty much everything that there is to know about the theory, so you can consider that the theory was kind of matured around 2009, 2010, like the older concepts are there and the book is published and free pleasure. It dies shortly after, so it's been pretty much the work of his life has been, is been doing this, but after 2011 Robert Robert Sedgwick started to make a campaign to advertise a little bit this work and This is why you made the Coursera class from 2012 on this topic. Another they have studied together. So just very brief history of the field, which you realize that this is fairly new. These are not math from the 19th century or something like this. These are math concepts that are very, very recent and that come mostly from the computer world. The thing that I highlight here is that it's less than my check was one or two years ago. It had 3000 citations, so even if in what we do we don't hear about Attica metrics very much, you know the fields. This is extremely popular already. 3000 citations for a book. And I wish I had that, so that's that's still actually what I mean by that is that we're not aware of this research. But this is a research that's very popular in other fields.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK, So what is science? What is the scientific process? So every problem? That we have in science. We don't really solve. We're not really problem solvers. That's not what we do as stinkers. What we do is that we problem translators. So there's the real world here. And so for those of you can see very much this is Alice, like before the mirror and after the mirror. So there's the real world where the problems exist, or it is the, let's say, the world where the problem exists doesn't have to be real. And what we do to solve problems in science is that we translate them in another space in another world where the solution is simple. OK, so like we translate the problem in a way where now the solution is obvious and boom once we've got the solution there the way we have to work again is to translate back into the real world. Whatever that process here has given us, so whatever you work on, I don't know you. Some of you I do, but some most I don't, but that's what you're doing in principle. OK, so your work is just to translate problems into a space where they can be solved. Solve them with trivial ways there, and then translate them back into a world where they matter. OK, so think about it. For example, if you're if you're a mathematician, OK, so this could be a matrix problem, and as you know what the way you solve the eigenvalue's problem is that you just transform. This matrix into a space where it's diagonal and then everything is super easy to solve and then after this is translated back into the initial coordinates of the of the system, you can think about this into as a four year transformation. OK, you have the signal in time, you transform it into frequency. Now the solution is obvious and then you transform it back in time for your particular purpose. But even if you're a biologist, this is what you do. You care about cancer while you work with mouse. OK, because you think like the problem is in the in the cancer world with human people. But then I'm going to translate my problem. You can model system of my cancer in a mouse in a mouse. I can solve it and then hope to get the solution that will matter for for the people. So this is science. That's the way it works. We're not solving problems at all, we just translate them into a space where the solutions will be much, much easier than in the original.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So what, what is the take of analytic, torex on that? Is this one is that you have a problem here, which is a combinatorics problem. So you want to count things, probabilities of things and. You transform them into a space, which is the space of generating functions, and so I'm not going to explain to you very much while generating functions R, but just for you to know like to take notes for check later. Maybe if you're interested is that here every object in your problem of interest is identified with the generating function, so there's a one to one correspondence between these two things, and the idea is that making combinatoric problems with objects that are complicated is really hard. But with generating functions is going to be much easier. So you translate your problem into generating functions. You then combine this generating functions through a special vocabulary that was developed for analytic component ORIX, and then you have a method to get back distribution to original problem. Just looking at that function. OK, that function is going to have some particular property, you just have to solve a simple equation of that function. Actually my function is equal to 0. Any solution of that gives you the solution to your initial. Problem about community torex and that's pretty much all I want to say about. You know the way it works. I don't want to bother you with that. If interested then of course we can talk about about this later or you can look it up for yourself, but just let you know that it's just the scientific method at work. It's just the standard way, except that their take is to use generating functions.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So. Generating because they generate it's very good question. I never I never quite knew why they call it this way. An WHO was the first person to generating functions actually. So they come more from the realm of probabilities. This generating functions, and they're kind of moment generating functions in general. There are called because their derivatives or actually the moments of the distribution. But then I think at some point they just called them generating functions that have moment generating function. But I'm going to look that up. That's a great question. And the answer is not quite sure any other question. Well, I'm stop. Right, very good. So here is just to make things a little bit more concrete because so far it was very evaporate. When you have a question like this, what is the chance that I read has a set of size 17 option number one is you do the math here, but who likes that? No one nobody. Plus it's really hard right now I don't. I don't like it for sure. Option #2 is you play Lego right now who likes this everyone of course. So you're going to construct the reeds with one particular rule and you're just going to try and find the rules. That make the rise of interest, and then the magic will happen, and.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Get the dissolution. So this is just a very high level explanation of how the methods work, but you start with atoms. You say they are nucleotides that are correctly sequenced nuclear test. There are incorrectly sequence. Each of them has a probability that you know that's the error rate of the sequencer. This one would be P times Ed. That is just a variable that's used to make a function. Function must have variable. I call it said, but it could be called anything. So you just define the generating functions of the atoms and then you combine the. Generating functions OK, you could say once I've got my items, I can put them one after the other, so you got 3 correct nucleotides followed by one incorrect nucleotide and so the generating function of that thing here is just this very simple function of the other generating functions. And then you can make more statements by using the plus and then you can make sequence statement by using this a bit more complicated operations that are here. So every combination that you want to do on these objects you have a rule like an alphabet. That tells you what to do with the function on the other side. OK, so this is the left side of Allison. This is the right set of Alice here, and the point is that whatever operation you want to do here, you can do. There you have the alphabet and once you get there, this is the final equation of interest and you can instantly get well almost instantly. Get the solution to the problem that you had initially. What is the chance that you got 17 nucleotides in a row without without error? It's actually contained in that particular. Equation that's here. You just have to find similarities which comes out to having an equation equal to 0.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Alright, so I'm not going to explain much more about this vicious to say that there there is somehow there was in the literature at the point when I started to think about these things. There were a couple of ideas that were already there and they were just for everybody to grab, but they were not really in the kind of articles that that I was reading very much. At the time, but that's not at all the way I started on this thing by just saying what I just said. Now there was just to give you an idea of what analytical metrics is. The way it works is that I was interested in a completely different problem. And then I look for something on Mathoverflow and the question was diagonal asymptotic for integer compositions, completely unrelated, and so I thought that's a great question. Let's see the answer etc. And so like the question is really quite complicated with a lot of math. And then there's this guy here answers. Such problems can be solved routinely using the methods explained in the book by me and Robin Pimento in Analytical metrics in several variable. Variables and so I thought, oh that's funny. The way they they solve it is by using this class from Coursera that I watched couple of years ago. And so I downloaded their book and then I looked at the way they solve these things and I got amazed at the way that it actually works. It solves things that could be quite useful and I didn't connect the dots very, very fast.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Far from that. So I started to write a manuscript on genome assembly, so I'm very famous for not working on the new assembly and I still don't work on General Assembly, so things haven't got very, very far from that manuscript. But the idea was that. So what is the composition? Of integers. It's analogous to having little tiles here. For genome assembly, your sequencing reads of different length, and if they touch each other by at least a million nucleotides OK, then you can reach them together, and so whether you are going to be able to bridge the whole genome with your tells is a composition problem, and so in a sense what they were saying in this little mathoverflow post is that there is a way to know whether you're going to be able to assemble the genome before you actually start. OK, so just by knowing the probabilities. The length of the distribution length of your reads, how much you want them to overlap in the minimum, then you will know the chance that you get a complete coverage here, and I thought this is absolutely great. Let's try this for real and so I started to write a manuscript saying like this is much, much, much better than what was used before, so I'm not sure you can see this in the back, but like there's this line here, which represents the model that people are actually using in the field of of assembly. And so this is the average number of contexts. That you have as a function of the number of reads that you're going to make. So you want to know that because you want to have one contact at the end and for your chromosome, and so you have to know how far you have to go in the number of weeks. So that's going to be quite an important thing to know, and then one of the users completely out of calibration here in that region. But the model of mental and Wilson, which is like extremely simple, much simpler, actually gives exactly the right answer. So the black dots are the experimental ones, so I got very enthusiastic about these things. But then I realized. Yeah, but I don't work with a with somebody anyway, I will never be able to push that. Plus like nowadays these are not so important things to know because you can just simulate it with the graphics card will take to NS and I could careless like this is absolutely not important at all and I'm sure that if you work on the field of genome assembly you've not really care too much to have this this information there.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
But then in the middle of doing that I finally realized. OK, maybe this is useful for the problem that I have, but it really took and hardly long time. It took about a year before I, you know, I've been working on this assembly thing and that damn it. Maybe it's related to what I do. Not just do this stupid assembly thing, it took a full year before I realized the method that they proposed here allows me to solve the problem that we have in not in assembly, but in mapping. So I made this second manuscript, this one. They released, the first is still in preparation. It probably will be forever. This one was at least put on them. UN by archive. It was noted by Roman were also invited me to talk about this on this podcast, and so this one is the first paralyzed. You can encode the problem of. The seeding problem does my read continuous seed with relatively simple graphs here that are taken directly from the theory of analytic combinatoric. So in this one we're solving the first problem, which is am I going to map the read or not? It doesn't tell you whether you're going to be able to map it correctly so that was already quite a lot of work and a lot of fun to do that. And still we're missing the main. The main point here, which is you want to know the property of being wrong, not just the property that you can not going to be able to map the read, because if you don't have the read you know it like the redesign and Maps the real problems, or when you're wrong, not just when you don't let them.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And so it took a kind of a long time. Let's say there's at least another year here on this particular manuscript, which really addresses the problem of. Of really knowing the probability of making errors not just of not being able to map the reeds, and the theory is much more complicated because the kind of reason we have to invent their much more advanced here. So this is very hard to work with in analytic combinatorics and so with that analytical metrics is pretty impossible like there's no way you can compute the math on something like this, But here remember that we're playing Lego. OK, so we're not really trying to solve complicated things which is trying to say. How can I construct reads that have a seat? How can I construct read that don't have a seat? And if you have a construction plan then you are going to be able to get something out of it with that method one way or another, so just using that construction plan gives you one way to have access to the solution always the as simple as the one I showed before, but at least you got a method to make progress on that. So on this we finally could get to compute the probabilities. Of being wrong or using some? Some of the actual.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Techniques that I used in for mapping and so this one is is published. It's on by archive as well, and it's in revision for at least six months and apparently nothing happens yet. But I'm very happy about it. They're taking their time and we're finally preparing the final manuscript of this series where you have to do the real software. And of course I will never trust anyone who comes just with algorithms. Show me the software should be that it can work, and then you can get good things and then I'll talk. And so we're now preparing automatic repair. Finally, we have implemented everything we did in an efficient implementation, etc. Instead, in the making. So I hope that could finish it for today, but it was way without too optimistic, but still working quite close. So hopefully this will be finished very soon. And with these things we can compute where you cannot see anything, but doesn't matter very much. Just to you know to occupy the slides with some pictures, but we can compute the probabilities of being right and being wrong using different strategies and so the faster these curves drop. Batteries the strategy. So this is 1 strategy they want to BWA. Unless they wanna vote either one or both eyes. Actually much much much better, but it's of course wrong. The problem with the strategies that generates way too much work so they have to ditch many of the candidates using dirty or heuristics. So it's a fake impression of performance here. At least we know that at least we know how these strategies work. We know if you use that strategy is going to cost you that much if you use that, it's going to cost you that much. We know these things now. Funny.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And so where we are just right now, the thing I wanted to hope to have solved. So this is a picture from the manuscript where writing now and it was done by a color blind guy in my lab. So This is why it looks a bit funky like this is an orange line and this is great dots and you really thought it was the same color but never mind. I mean, it's a little bit messy as well, so the point is that here we are generating plenty of reeds of different math and different error rates and so on. And the we can compare the claimed mapping quality and the real mapping quality and so in blue. For example this is BW which is this characteristic curve of being too pessimistic in the beginning and too optimistic at the end, and so never quite really along the line it as this this thing here. So the problem is that even at the when. Change quality 60. It's never quality 16. It's never really, really as good as it says. And the problem of both I2 is that it goes up and down. Is that it's more or less on the line, but it varies quite a lot. So in this particular example it's quite bad for a bow tie 2 because it's way too pessimistic. Actually it says quality is 42, but it's right is much higher than that. So like that's the two mappers that I used a lot and there is like there, right? So it's pretty much on the line. So on this one case, which I've chosen, especially because it worked well for us in general, is not that good, but at least on this one case. That's fine, and so we have a problem here. Like we're a bit too pessimistic here and explain to you why in a second, but overall that's the point. So we're not really. It's not a better mapper at all. Is not the idea, but it's just more and more honest. Map arises when we see quality 70. It's pretty quality 70 it's not quality 30 right? So it takes time. We're not super, super fast, we're still a bit faster than be debris and vote on this problem. But as soon as the problems become more complicated than than we much lower of course. Yeah. Oh yeah, well, it's complicated, so he had plenty of ideas of for these things. Sorry bout this is the number of sequences that are in that in that category. So most of the sequences are here and here for BWC, that's by model. So it says either quality zero or quality 60, and then very few points there in between. So 95% of the points are either zero, 60 and so both eye is a little bit more, you know, as a bit more granularity with a good portion of the reads here and a good dear. But again, almost nothing here and ours is a little bit well like the other ones you know, like a lot of points or there, because it's pretty clear whether it goes a lot of points out there, because pretty clear that you'll never know whether it goes and few in the in the middle. Here. The thing that we're quite happy about that we quite proud about is that we can go to qualities that are much, much, much higher than visibility and bow tie. Becausw of this you Ristic. OK, so I want to explain why because it's very technical, but the idea is that because these things are actually known with proper accuracy, we have realized that there are many cases where the quality can be known with extremely high confidence. Let's say when the trees are long you can have qualities of above 100, which means that you never see any error with this type of reading your whole life because it means one error in 10 to 10 reads. They just don't even sequence that machine. OK, so that's where we are. The problem is in that range here. So the thing?

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So we're trying to address right now is just the final final thing for wrapping up this line of research. Is that what happens is that duplicates, so you make you make errors when the sequence is duplicated. You cannot make an error when the sequence is not duplicated and duplicates evolve like that in many copies of each other that transposons or something like this, like they're not really evolving randomly. There was made copies of each other, so these sequences here are not independent, statistically speaking, and so we need to find a model. That would kind of make it not so bad here. So what happens there?

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Where we too pessimistic is because we miss estimates the number of copies of each sequence then in detail.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Just to tell you. The kind of thing that's on our mind and what we're working on that.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
OK, so I'm done I think. Yeah, it's time to wrap up anyway, so just wanted to present you that, but you understand it's an example of the way we work that we connect information and so the most important, let's say piece of information I wanted to give you today is that this is 1 example of the research which is entirely in the academic underworld started on my blog. With the conversation I had with the with the Gov Blast. We use information from Coursera, Stackoverflow, romance, postcast. Also give some ideas on how to how to continue so. None of this is in the papers in nature or these things, or even at conferences. While this is 1 conference work. It's a copy. The hobby absolutely, but that's exactly what I believe. I mean, if you, if you think of science, is something else in the hobby, then there's something wrong with you, really. OK, so I mean what I mean is that you can use the highway like the nature cell science highway and the usual. But that's just one way and you have other ways to do research and this is a completely fine way like this is in the underground world, but the underground world becomes bigger and bigger thanks to the Internet now, so people will give these Coursera classes. There are academic people who write these blog posts there, mostly academic. They just don't use the normal channels and so a lot of things are happening. Little bit at that level, more and more. So I think it's important to. Make people realize that it's OK to do research this way. As a biologist, this is probably unlikely to happen, and this is also shocking you. But as a computer scientist was a band from addition, this is kind of normal. You spend huge amount of time talking to each other directly. No need for editors or you know, etc. Like we're going to go bit more direct in the way information flows, and I think that's a very good thing. So there just to say the information. How does the information go through? It was mostly through the non academic channels. The connections between the ideas was very logical. Things I should have connected. Some of that is much earlier much much earlier, but then I went through a very long loop with genome assembly and then realizing after a year. Oh my God, it's completely useless. And plus, you know I should have seen that much measure before. Why is that? I don't know. I'm not that smart obviously, but I think it's a little bit the same for everyone before you see the connection, you don't see the connection, so it's OK to accept the time that the obvious is not obvious before it's obvious. OK, so I think it's OK. We should not really think that we have to think fast instantly and that everything should be really fast. You know and obvious. Things can be slow or brains work the way they work and sometimes like, yeah, you get lost a bit and then you re connect the dots and you don't know how long you're going to get lossed you never know whether you're lost, actually whether you're not lost at all, but I think it's OK that it takes time to connect the dots. The thing is that the real drive of that project is just that. I like it. You can see that this is not really driven by any particular project or something like this, or you know, or it is not particularly ordered in anyway. Just like. You like something you're going to invest the hours that it takes to discover whatever it takes to discover, and that's really something that we don't emphasize enough is that you will need to be interested in what you do. You're going to be much, much better at solving a problem that you care about. And I solving a problem that you don't care about and the problems that we want to solve their old hard. There's no, there's no easy problems anymore. They're all done. OK, so if you want to make a contribution, you're going to be much better at it. If you're really passionated by that stuff. And it doesn't matter whether the thing fascinates other people, you know. Just fascinates me. I don't know why there's just the way it is, you know, and I don't feel apologetic about this. I just think this is a great opportunity for me to not sleep at night and work on this instead, because there's no other project that will keep me awake that long. But that's what it takes. You want to discover stuff? It takes time. It takes energy, so you will take your enthusiasm to solve the important problems in my opinion, and also that this is about 7 years of research. So many of you, especially if you're juniors, don't even that long experience in research, so you haven't solve your problems yet. And you're thinking, Oh my God, that's horrible like everybody has to have all their problems in one year and they would get Noble prize, cetera. Well, no. OK, so this is the luxury of being in the academia for long enough to have this perspective to realize how long it takes to solve some problems that they have their natural inertia and you can really push on the accelerator the whole time doesn't work that way. Some things you can when it's hard work, but when these are strong to understand what happens, just trying to see where the ideas connect the dots, etc. This takes horribly long and we don't emphasize that enough, but in pieces that are like three or four years, there's so much you can do with this stuff that's just longer than that. And you don't always realize it and you feel kind of bad and depressed because you haven't solved your problems yet. But look, I wouldn't have you know if my PC was that I would be like completely, you know, completely not able to complete that. Some problems take long and that's OK. This because they're hard because you know, they matter. They're hard.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
That's it, that's what I wanted to tell you. So some people need to work a lot of this was done by Edward and a lot of these buttons with the code and without getting the idea that traffic suggestions were really awesome. And so Ruggero now doesn't work in the lab anymore. He works in a company as an analyst and Edward Works in the lab. Now he's a technician, works for me, and thanks very much to all of you for attention. Right, it's 7:30, but maybe we have time for a few questions. If there is any. Otherwise anyway, we can talk about this over over lunch, dinner or beer. Bunch of questions. In the beginning he said that the BWA loses a lot of time on there is. This would never be mad. Yeah, and does your more accurate prediction helping how to shorten the time or you anyway don't know until the end what is there? Nothing. It's a very. It's a very good question. So no, we're not wasting that time. Not that much. So thing is that BWA and boot either very very good mappers. These are excellent people who work on this, and so the mistake they make to some extent or unavoidable little bit. And so we cannot really make much better than than these two mappers, but in many cases, yeah, we can know beforehand that we won't be able to map to map the reeds, so one one is that when you see that you have too many copies of the of the sequence, if you have more than 20, I'll actually use the. OK, the curve that's here the curve that you cannot see here is the probability that you're going to be able to map the read at the end of the day. Depending on the number of copies of the sequence in the genome. So if you start by having an estimate of the number of copies, you know whether you're on that horrible curve here or within on that better curve that's here, and The thing is that we're quite good at knowing that. Wonder horrible curve and giving up instantly. So like we're really good at quitting. So first we do an estimate of what's the number of copies of that sequence. And if the Oh my God more than 100, you know what? I'm not going to spend too much time here because I know that my perspective is that anyway, not likely to find anything. Right or if I find something, my confidence in it will be so low that it's not even worth spending the time on there, OK, and that's why. Here we have that problem that we need to estimate that relatively properly, and if you make a gross error on the number of copies you're going to give up too early or give up too late and waste time. No. Does that answer your question? So what's your next big question? How do you find it? Well, OK, how do you find me questions like? I hope I made it clear that is just it's going to make me enthusiastic like if I can go to bed. An without thinking about something, then it's already not interesting, but if I if at 1:00 o'clock I'm still thinking about something, and at 2:00 o'clock or three o'clock I'm still not. I'm still thinking about it, then, then that's the my next question. So nowadays it's been a lot about deep learning. Actually. Of course, we've been wondering whether we should not just do, depending on this to learn the quality score that image better, maybe will and see that all these things were for nothing. But so yeah, it's to use. We'll talk probably a little bit about this at the discussion after after dinner. But could we use deep learning to answer questions about nature and not about advertisement or or or diagnostics? This sort of you presented it like the question found to you, right? Yeah, exactly, that's exactly the way to phrase the question. Finds me, I hope the question funds you too. But basically, the way it is, yeah, like it would be like inspiration. We don't know where it comes from, just you have to be available for it when it comes. Well, I think it's a great way to finish and then to go for dinner. Thank you very much.
