[0.0s - 29.0s]
Actually. It's been done. But we proposed earlier has been carried out. It took seven years. The pioneer in this area is ochem, the Office of Harmonization of the Internal Market, which is responsible for registering trademarks in all of EU. You can apply.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Binary language. You can research the Community trademark and the national trademarks across in different languages you published in 23 languages. Opposition opposition in any EU language litigation, national even. Align with US, China, Japan and Korea, yes. They are a leader in the trademark on the IP field. Even the US has to admit to the fact that Europe is ahead of them.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
What they achieved was pure cross border interoperability through account. Little bit we refer to as TM class. Today we started with calling aduro class because it belonged to Europe. It was not possible to stay that way after China, Japan, Korea and US giant. There are 30 participating offices and that means 30 different countries. Actually, TM classification is accepted for goods and services and used and deployed for internal purposes as well. External they translate the the team classification is linked to a taxonomy and all of this combines. The existing resource of the Origonal office, combined with all of the EU resources. As well as the international lease classification, our trilateral agreement with USA and Japan and what we call a harmonization.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Effort. It started with a terminology resource, which was a flat file, more or less of 110,000 terms in Excel. Other languages that range from 6000 to 60,000 and there was a huge terminology effort that could only have been achieved if it was held by a decendant of Plato and he is here in the room. Doctor Cranius are my co-founder of his team. Basically. The current operation is around 1.5 million terms and all of the EU language equally represented and all of them at the top level layered and linked into a taxonomy.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
What does this mean? An interoperable registration of something as simple as IP, not for patents, just for trademark. Well. IPR intensive industries provide a lot of money for our GDP. Actually, 39% of it. And of that, translate so sorry trademarks alone. 33.9 Can you imagine 33.9% of our economy is through trademark registrations? Somebody something that somebody owns the name of. This one is becoming more and more important as patents deteriorate because they are not really registered in IT. Trademarks are gaining. It's taught us 4.7 trillion annually. Now, if you think about this. Our project together with Okm. It started to save some issues in translation was what was it? 20 something million that they cost the translation cost was annually. We said something like 20% of that in the first couple of years. Then the next step was to automate or semi automate the registration process, that is to support the examiners. Nobody lost their jobs because they had actually a backlog of more than a year, so it took more than a year to file a trademark in Europe. How much does it cost to wait for one year to get your trademark registration? You can't start to sell your products. Now that went down to 10 weeks. On the basis of this information resource. Now. Think about the fact that if. If IP is 39% of our GDP, how much money was saved by the amount of time that the companies gained to access market that instead of more than a year it was a bit over 2 months and that is what it is at today.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
This is not just about money, it's also about cross border jobs, because the truth of it. But even for a gourmet like trademarks. And I pee because this is a joint. An analysis carried out by EPO and Achim. The cross border within EU, and especially those bordering Germany. Is such a huge part of their labor force. So if you look below at the lower level, you'll see the percentage of the labor deployed. The blue line stands for the EU related IP in other countries. The grey line stands for non EU related IP from not from such countries as the US, So Coca Cola and all the others. And if you look at. Germany, it's down there somewhere in the middle there, but more or less doing their own things. But they are influencing everybody around them like the Czech Republic Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania. Probably in Luxembourg. But this is important guys and this is really something that in triplet ability has to do with. We can't make Europe far more. Powerful. By actually pulling for interoperability, and we can, we are the only ones that can do it. I'm sorry, but that's my conclusion. We are the only ones. So here goes.
