Well, you come across them in number theory, where they're used to. Characterize the distribution of prime numbers and their extension since the graph domains where we replaced the concept of a prime number with the prime cycle and the Zeta function is defined over the length of those prime cycles and can be used as a graph characterization. As I explained earlier, is determined by the distribution of prime cycles on a graph. Edges in the digraph indicating incidence of a common vertex. VSE is defined over prime cycles, so if big peers, the prime cycle set P is little pieces. And we can reorganize this and express the horezu to function in terms of the characteristic polynomial of the orientated line graph. Here we have a sort of normalizing constant and then we multiply this by the inverse determinant of the characteristic polynomial which is given here in terms of a identity matrix. OK, so in that form it turns out to be a little a little bit intractable to manipulate the harazi to function, but it turns out there's a much simpler determinant expression for it in terms of the adjacency matrix 2H of the orientated line graph and I've written it here. Well, trace of T to the K is simply a symmetric polynomial of order K, so expressed in this way. David Adams, Richard Wilson, Simone Severini and myself have shown that if you use the the spectrum. Of the support matrix of discrete time quantum Walk, then that's able to lift problems of Co. Spectrality associated, particularly with strongly regular graphs and trees. So in a paper which appeared in Pam in 2005, Richard Wilson been lower myself, showed how to use how to cluster graphs using symmetric polynomials over the Laplacian matrix, so this representation seems to capture the desirable properties of both of these pieces of previous work. So the problem is, can we analyze the structure of graphs without solving the graph matching problem, and in my group we've made a certain amount of progress over the last years. So a number of cycles of length L are determined by these derivatives of the horezu to function at the origin. So I think I said this earlier hypergraphs requiring interest as a means of representing patterns involving higher order relations. They found a compact means of characterizing hypergraph if we're going to do this, we can require a compact means of characterizing hyper graphs that can be used in pattern recognition. Times I won't touch on that, but one of the approaches is to is to try to extend the concept of a Laplacian from the graph domain to the hypergraph domain. The past few matrix only records adjacency relationships between pairs of nodes and the GLEX cardinality's of the hyperedges. Never course more sophisticated ways, and there's a lot of mileage and using graph spectral methods and very closely linked to graph spectral methods are algebraic methods, and so, whereas the spectral methods use the eigenvalues of an adjacency matrix or in plastic matrix, algebraic methods use the coefficients of a characteristic polynomial. The structure of different graphs and if we tried to characterize the heat kernel trace using a moments representation list, let it lead us to representation of graphs based on Zeta functions. This quantity was linked to the number of spanning trees in the graph and this results be known for a long time and it's it's due to Mackay. Into details, so we've applied this to some of the familiar datasets that we've used previously, particularly modellhaus image sequences. Information, that is to say, the intensity information around a feature point as difference between two points has to be less than a threshold as well, so I won't go into that. So just to conclude what I've done is, I've shown that a higher coefficients provide a flexible tool for both characterizing pairwise structures and higher order structures higher, higher coefficients capable of distinguishing structures were saying why pairwise connectivity with different relational orders, and I've shown efficient means of computing them for hypergraphs. And if one then asks if you could distinguish these these curves, that race is the heat kernel using some sort of parameterization that leads you naturally to computing the moments of the heat, kernel, trace and peace. In fact, it's the moments of the heat kernel trace minus the number of connected components in a graph divided by normalizing gamma function. So the number of questions that we might want to ask, what more can Zita functions tell us about graph structure? How can they be used to probe structure and deepen way and how they linked to graph Spectra?