So thank you everyone now switching slightly topics and I'm going to tell you about distributed indexing for semantic search, which is of course related to ranking. And most map reduce paradigm and dismisses file system is implemented as part of Hadoop, which is an open source software that anyone can install and it runs on commodity hardware. The distributed file system and this computational framework where you can create, map and reduce jobs and apply them to large sets of data. So basically the number of mappers which you see here solely depends on the size of the input. So if you build many, many very very small indices. So? The real time that we measured was was three hours, 4 hours in next time. So in conclusions for now, the horizontal next structure seems to be more more efficient for keyword queries, and field restricts, we want to really verify this under understand more ideal setting very controlled memory, abit bit more than we did for the paper. An inverted index is a map from the terms in the collection to the documents which contain that term. Emerging the resulting document sets now produce is actually the perfect model for building is inverted indices. To take out the terms that you want to index and then create this term document pairs and then in the reduce phase you collect such term document pairs. Data is a much richer structure, and of course we expect to to carry out more sophisticated queries, which again in turn require more sophisticated indices. It is that we would require from our from our query languages. So this paper that will be presented to the main conference by Jeff found on Friday contains some analysis on on what kind of structure we find in keyword queries. So instead of instead of the individual words just bands to divert the name of the property, right? The disadvantage is that your dictionary expands quite rapidly because now you will have not only one vertical depth, but you will have the in every possible property, and typically in RDF data as you know the number of properties is fairly large. So this this really works when you have a small number of of fields or properties to index. So for each position in the in the token index on the same position in the property index, you store the name or identifier of the property for which that word is a value. This works will return to to what it costs an and what the performance is. The dictionary is basically the number of unique terms that you have plus the number of properties, right? The other natural idea would say is is to have only one field their property right one index per property, so that's what you see here at the bottom and in this case your query engine really only is to support multiple indices or fields. Dictionaries is just the number of unique terms, the number of occurrences is really just the number of tokens, and there's less Q since you again divided your index into into sub indices by property. So, so we implemented ourselves and the reality is a bit more complex than the textbooks would like you to believe. In this case your object, you arise. OMG for JS minimal perfect hash functionality. Hundreds 20,000,000 documents or so. This map basically this dysfunction from subject URS the document identifiers and at some point in the future you know we will run out of out of memory and the nodes. One is that the documents need to come in increasing order of document ID. Another limitation is that when we start to write out the posting list, so we start to write out the document identifiers forgiven term, we need to know in advance. The number of documents that we're going to be writing out, and again we solve this and I'll refer the details to the paper. We had problems in the vertical case with the number of indices. So basically for the index rating to be efficient you need to you need to have a cache for each field in memory, and that limits limits the number of fields you can index. Just a reminder, if index subject your eyes are not document URLs and in order to do that we need to collect all the triples by subject UI. And we measured in this experiment indexing cost and query performance. We did not factor in the cost of merging.