[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank Neil and Magnus for inviting me here. Some of you may know I'm actually. I came here, but I'm not going back, so I'm actually starting a position at the one of the. Related with one of these systems, biology center, some very pleased that Manchester is sunny and. At least until I sign my papers. I'm going to be talking about is benchmarking parameter estimation in reverse engineering strategies, and this is essentially a problem that is. I would say quite important in this area because you need to know how good the methods are. And if these methods were theoretical, we could assess them very easily by analysis, but since they are not always approximate solutions, it's very hard to do that other by benchmarking. And there's been a little bit of confusion in this field, so I've. I'd like to try and sort things out for myself, at least for the methods that I tried to develop. I should also say that this work was done by number of people. Mostly by the other people who are not here. Diego Camacho, who's a student in my group and then. Paula Verily, Corner who's a student in my colleagues group run her Lobban backer, who's collaborator of mine is this? OK. Right? So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Also, before I start I will make a shameless plug burn some of my minutes in this to say that my group and also coomers group in Heidelberg have been producing piece of software called capacity, which does quite a lot of parameter estimation and I hope you will find that it has some advanced tools for parameter estimation, But you should tell me that that's not the case and then we will improve it. Some of the work done here is done with this software. It's actually portable as you could see, runs exactly as you expect it to run on whatever system you. You use weather windows, Mac or or various Unixes or Unix like systems. This is a intercontinental collaboration was a 2 cycle operation that became A3 cycle.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Nation. Still, across continents and an island I guess. Also, for those of you who use Coupa, Zyan attempted to site is WWW capacitor dark. Please use the paper. It's out and that's the citation. You can use this citation. We're measured just like everybody else by citations and WWW composite or doesn't work.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
OK, so now let's get on with the important part. We're talking about parameter estimation, and so I thought of using a very old slide that I have that kind of exemplifies what numerical well, what parameter estimation is all about. At least parameters you mentioned based on numerical optimization. There are perhaps other ways, but I think we can probably all frame it this way. How it works is that you start your. You have to start with something and you have a model and the model is encoded in certain set of functions and parameters and values for the parameters of those functions. I wrote here kinetic functions. This is more tailored to the so-called mechanistic models, but the data driven models are exactly the same. There are some equations contain parameters you don't know their values. And you also have a piece of software that will that, given a certain set of parameter values and the functions will calculate. Some things about the model and those things are the ones that you can measure in experiments. And that could be either a steady state, the timecourse, or some other kind of measurable. Quantity. And that's where your experimental data comes in. And now we want to do is you compare. I'm going to use steady State as example, but it could be time course or a combination of the two. You're going to compare these an from that comparison. You need to try and improve your parameter. Your set of parameter values. And the improvement is done by and large by optimizing numerical optimization algorithms. This slide was actually made to show that if you want to do this in a computer with mechanistic models, you actually have to have some software. The software that simulates in the software that does the optimization need to talk to each other because this is a function evaluation for that and this one here doesn't need to know about that one, but they need to be tide up somehow. But this is what all the methods do doesn't matter if they are.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Logical methods based on derivatives, for example steepest descent, or. Newton methods or quasi Newton methods, but it's also the same thing if you use other types of algorithms, such As for example simulated annealing or evolutionary algorithms, or these direct search methods which are more geometric. They were based on geometry, or even if you do just plain random search. Get some parameter values at random. Plug the meaning the question, check what? How good it is? Do another random set and just keep the best one and do these for many gazillion times. All of these methods follow the same structure. So the point here now is to. Try to measure how. Comparatively, how good are these methods? For a given set of problems and the given set of problems we are interested are ones which we hope to be the ones we encounter in the real world. Now you could say why don't you use real world data? Wouldn't use experimental data without using experimental data. I never know if I'm right, 'cause I don't know what's behind it. And I'll make that argument little bit later, and so it's quite important that you use some kind of synthetic data model based. Synthetic data that you can actually check whether what you infer is similar to what you had in the beginning. What generated the data? That is really the acid test, and you cannot do this with experimental data. I know you cannot convince any of our experimental colleagues if you just show them this, But this should be really for our own interest. It's only when it passes a test like this that you should then start using it with experimental data, and then you still don't know if you're right or wrong. OK, so few years back I tried to do this test. Some of these optimization algorithms and so I made.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Little Toy Pathway, which is just a simple linear three step metabolic pathway so it's not very fancy. I hope I'll show you a few more fancy ones, fancier ones. So there are three enzymatic steps. However, the enzymes that catalyze the reactions are also variables of this thing, so they're also synthesized and degraded, and they just catalyze those reactions. And. Their synthesis is also catalyzed by presence of a Messenger RNA and the Messenger RNA itself is also transcribed and degraded. So there are a number of. Variables here, so there's eight variables. The two metabolites in the middle. These two here are held constant and. There's three proteins and 3M RNA's, and there's a little bit of feedback loops to make this a little bit interesting. This end product inhibits. The synthesis of the three M RNA's. Anne. These metabolites activate induce the. Synthesis of the M RNA's of the enzymes that will degrade them. It's not particularly like any system that we know, although it's very much like many systems we know because there are reactions catalyzed by enzymes with M RNA. There's a little circuit with inductions and repressions.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
And then I went on in parameterized all of these things. They actually have full differential equations characterizing each of these steps. And certain set of parameters and I can produce a lot of data for this. For this model, using it as if it was my experimental system. The model itself has 39 parameters. Three of these are equilibrium constants, so I'm assuming that we can obtain them by another means, so we don't need to estimate those three. It's actually not from biological knowledge from chemical knowledge. So we left with 36 adjustable parameters and I'm trying the hard problem. Well, it's not the hardest problem, but it is a very hard problem. We know the form of all the equations, we don't know any value for the parameters or even order of magnitude estimate, and so we're going to allow them to vary within a large set of boundaries. We recognize there are two types of parameters, some of them are Hill coefficients and we know from physics, again from biochemistry that Hill coefficients are not going to be much smaller than .1, and for sure probably not going to be larger than 10 for single enzymes, and so those are really good limits for them. You can vary between .1 and 10. That's actually not a very large search space. The other parameters are more like they have concentration units and we don't know exactly what their values should be, so we're going to try and let them go between 10 to the minus 12 in 10 to the six. In fact, in later exercises or even up this one to 10 to the 12 just to be. I guess symmetric around around 1:00. This is an enormous search space. Remember there are 36 dimensions in this search space, so this is a 36 dimensional space and very large on each one of them. I preceded to use many of those algorithms to try and estimate the parameters just by feeling.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
A single time course. And of course, the first thing I discovered is that the gradient methods, the methods that are that came from. Dynamics from calculus don't work at all. Those are steepest descent. Newton methods, Levenberg Marquardt, quasi Newton methods, they don't, they don't converge at all. In fact most of them don't even move. They have stopping criteria that stops them from moving because they are the gradient is so small that they decide that they're already at the solution when they start, even though they're very far away. Of course, this is a global optimization problem, and we don't expect these algorithms to work. The algorithm at the time when this was done in 2000 that I managed to make. Get me close to the solution. Of course I know the solution because I generated the data was evolutionary programming. Anne. After I've done that, I could then further improve that solution, so I use the result of evolutionary programming as a candidate solution for the next step in the next step, I use one of these geometric algorithms who can Jeeves, which is a very understated algorithm spectrum 1961 and it works like Wonder. I would say it's a. It's a local optimization algorithm, but as local optimization algorithms go is it's quite good. You won't read that in any textbook. I'm sure in fact, very few people probably are using this method. If you use any of these kinds of methods, the popular one is nelder Mead, the one that you see in numerical recipes called Amoeba, and that one is not that good. After that then I could apply Levenberg Marquardt which is a gradient method and then even improve the solution a little bit. Now of course I'm getting close to the solution, so at that point if I'm in the basin of attraction of that solution, then local optimization methods do work. So there is something in. Of utility about these methods, which is to improve your solution when you are really, really close to it. And so I have a final. Model that I inferred from the data, at least the parameters were estimated from the data and they replicate the dynamics very well. I'm going to show you in a moment. Unfortunately, some of the parameters are 10 times the value of their original parameter, and there are many reasons for this. We can discuss this later on, but the fact is this is not the real solution that I started with. It is not the same solution. However, the data looks as good as this.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And. The original data is the red. Diamonds and the simulated data that is data obtained with the parameters. That I estimated is the green crosses and as you'll see, it's pretty good solution if you gave this to your experimental friends as if it will be very pleased. All the trends are here by and large. The deviations are very small. Now. If you do these things for a long time, you'll figure out there are some problems here. For example, there's an overshooting the data here, which my model cannot reproduce, so there's a maximum there, and a little bit of an oscillation. And my model could not reproduce that. Then the same thing here. And to some little extent there, all the other variables are really almost perfectly fit. First danger when you have a good fit, they may not have the solution. That's unfortunately a problem that's going to haunt us forever.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So later on, the collaborator started collaboration with your bank and he said, well, there may be some reasons why you couldn't get the right solution, and one of them is you. Maybe you didn't have enough data, which is of course one of the problems that we normally have. If you don't have enough data, you are not going to be able to fit a model that is too complex, so there there is a relationship between the complexity of the data and the complexity of the model, and they should be about the same. If the model is more complex than the data, then you will have many solutions that fit the data. If the model is less complex than the data, then you are not going to be able to fit it. And in this case, I knew that the model was right because the questions were exactly the same that were used to generate, so the problem must have been we don't have enough data. So we generated a few more trajectories 16 now by different combinations of substrate and product concentrations, and we went on to try and estimate parameters again. And at this time we actually managed to get the solution almost perfectly. The parameter that is the worse off is only 16% different from the original value. So this is really a very good solution. And in fact, we tried several algorithms and compare them and this was published few years back and our results were those. So this is actually the convergence rate. Of the. Different algorithms? And the algorithms that really work well again were evolutionary algorithms, particularly evolution strategies. And there was a particular one that we believe would work best, which was evolution strategy with stochastic ranking. This is also an evolutionary strategy and this is differential evolution, which some people think it's very good, but certainly for this problem was not an that is a different method. I don't remember exact details of it, but you can look them up now. This is exactly what I'm arguing about. You need to compare your methods of parameter estimation with. Problems where you can actually assess how good they are, because we could really, even though we can measure the sum of squares of deviations, we can also go back to the original parameter values and check how good they are with. The corresponding ones that generated the data and that is really a. OK, so this is really parameter summation on.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Mechanistic based models, but now I want to go forward too. Data driven models. I have just a few. Arguments which we probably don't need to go through. The argument is just that now everybody is very excited about doing all these multi parallel experiments, microarrays. All the various omics people measure 10s of thousands of M RNA's at the same time. Hundreds or thousands of proteins at the same time, hundreds of thousands of metabolites at the same time, and they're all happy that they have all these data. They think they think, but I'm sure this audience. I don't need to convince you that they don't have a lot of data. They have a lot of dimensions and they actually have very very, very little data. 'cause as your dimensionality increases, you should have a lot more. Observations and in the end one microarray is just one observation whether it measures two genes or it measures 20,000 genes. Now when you measure 2 genes, probably 2 measurements are actually good. If you have 16,000 genes, 300 measurements are not that great. It's really populating the search space very, very, very sparsely. So we don't have that much data.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
But that's talk for another. To talk for the experimentalists. Now I'm going on the other type of models. The data driven models which I called top down modeling very as you start from the data. You do try to get a mechanism after getting the data so it's a little bit more than just data driven models. So you start with the data driven model and then you try to make it a more mechanistic one. And again the problem is you start with data like this. In fact, that's not what you're going to use your going to use a list of. Variable names and numbers. And you want knowledge, of course. And knowledge may be encoded in this kind of a network. Perhaps you want to infer just the connectivity? What variables are talking to each other? How are they interacting? How do they affect each other on? Dynamically, for example. But that probably is much better encoded. The knowledge itself is much better encoded by this by a set of equations. Now these are differentially questions that could be any kind. Any model that has. Quantification is going to be better than one that just says this activates that. And that's exactly what we're trying to obtain. We're trying to go from there to here.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
There are a lot of algorithms. For reverse engineering gene networks, this is a very sexy topic. Everybody is publishing several groups published many. Algorithms I have to confess my group has already published two algorithms and as I'll show you, none of them are really very good. And unfortunately as I'll show you, none of also know, neither are any of the others. And because this is such a sexy topic, and this is also so important. In the US, although there's also European participation, Andrea Califano at Columbia University and Gustavo Solovetsky at IBM Research. They got together and started a series of workshops which they called Dream the Dream Project Dream. Stands for assessing, or discourse on the reverse engineering. Algorithms and methods? Something like that, but it's essentially now became. So it's becoming a project to try and systematically assess these algorithms, and it's going to be a competition very much like Casper. For those of you who know what cost is. Those of you who don't catch his competition for algorithms for secondary structure prediction, what they do is they get a sequence of a protein and these algorithms have to predict its structure. Now at the same time somebody else in the laboratory did X Ray diffraction. They determine the structure of the protein by the way, which is also an exercise in parameter estimation. I won't get there, but it's just one that has much higher accuracy. It's still a model and then they compare the X Ray the structure from X Ray. With what the algorithms predict and they then come out and say, well, this algorithm is the best one 'cause it got so many structures out of each other. They do this every three years I believe, or every two years and that has really transformed the field of. Structural biology, because in fact these days nobody can claim they have a good algorithm if they don't beat other people at cusp. Just writing a paper saying my algorithm is great here is 1 model that I show as an example, doesn't fit anymore, and that's what we want to do with reverse engineering G networks. Protein signaling networks, metabolic networks, biochemical networks in general. So. One big part of this exercise will be how to assess these things. 'cause in the proteins they have the protein structural data and that's as I said, it's still a model, but it's a very high resolution model. We can probably consider it as the truth as a picture. Here we don't have that. If we're going to use biological data, so I give you a. Data from East population and you're going to say, well, it's a map kinase pathway that's working, but we don't know the map kinase pathway that, well, there's a lot of uncertainty still on the map kinase pathway. So if I give you the data and you deduce the map kinase pathway as we know it, you may have not done your job right. If you come up with something that we don't know, nobody knows. If you're right or wrong, and that's a big problem. Obviously nobody is going to believe us if we just produce synthetic data, so. The. The team is thinking about producing. Three types of data that these algorithms have to deal with. One set would be biological data from real networks, which as I said is convincing to biologists, but it's of course fuzzy at best. To be able to compare how well people did. On the other end, our in silico models, which is what I'm talking about where we have full control and we know exactly how good the solution is. But there will be some skepticism from the biologists. They will look at this and think, well, this is an exercise of geeks and that doesn't. What does that have to do with my work? And in the middle we have compromise which is using synthetic biology. You can engineer some organisms, for example the story coli to include a genetic circuit that they don't have. And so it's all encoded in plasmids. For example an that genetic circuit because they don't have it. It's you know exactly what it is, because you can you construct it to have inductions and repressions the way you want it. And then. We can then obtain biological data so we can then do actual measurements of these produce data and not tell people how the genetic circuit on that plasmid is until they produce solutions. So that's project. I believe this will be announced this year sometime. There has not been any decisions about the exact format of it, but it will be. Coming up this year, so my task in this. Project will actually be to produce data too. Synthetic data, so I will be creating models like the one I showed you before, where I'll produce data, do some experiments, most likely will at some level of noise. Synthetic noise an then people will make predictions and in the end we can show the actual thing and classify the accuracy of the methods. So I'll show you how this works if you want to know about the Dream Project URL. Which is in the National New York Academy of Sciences, has a briefing. It actually has a very nice. Description of the whole. The two previous workshops, which is the preparation for the next steps. This will be in the slide, so I'm going to go forward, otherwise they will show me the 0 minutes and.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
I'll be lost. So the idea is basically this we produce. A network with associated dynamics so that we can actually produce experiments. And then produce. Use some simulation software. In my case capacity to produce data. More than that, there will be some algorithm to simulate experiments, because the model can be run in many ways and what you really want to do is you want to simulate particular types of experiments and I'll show you that in a moment. And then somebody is going to produce a network out of those data. Those simulated experiments. And then you want to really do is compare what you get there. If you're just interested in the network, then the comparison is going to be something like. Checking how many arrows you got right if it's going to be more quantitative than probably we need some other metrics for finding how good it is and. That field is still a little bit open now. Would probably consider that you want to measure the distance in parameter space where you are, but it could also be in variable space. We don't know very well how that should be done. Now the only problem about this again is to convince people that this is relevant to biology, 'cause I can make any model and I can make models that are really particular in some type that. Maybe they're not like real biological networks, so we need to actually try to make these networks as realistic as possible, and that's really what I'm going to show next. And that's really, I think, an important task. Just as a reminder, what I talk about by Chemical Net.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Books are really three can be divided in three levels. Now the cell doesn't know about levels. It's all in there and what has to interact with interacting. An M RNA doesn't know that it's not supposed to talk with proteins, if it. If it has the right confirmation and it has the right environment, it probably will form some hydrogen bonds or whatever electrostatic phones with protein, so you know these things may happen, but we normally see the cell is this. There are metabolic networks where their transformations of the tablets are actually must transfer reactions. There are signaling networks where essentially proteins are interacting with each other there are there modifying other proteins covalently, or they are just binding to other proteins. And then eventually proteins, or more likely, complexes of proteins will bind to DNA. An will promote transcription. Of some gene into Messenger RNA. That Messenger RNA is then what is used to produce proteins etc. There is also going to be. Certain sets of proteins that degrade the M RNA and other proteins and of course, they catalyze the reactions there, so the proteins are kind of in the middle doing everything, but they need the encoding in there to be made, and this is really the phenotype. The stuff that really happens. Now, unfortunately, we normally tend to look at these separately. There are people studying signaling networks. Normally they contain no metabolism. There are people studying G networks. They don't really exist even, but there's kind of a shadow of these two levels down on that level. So I would say that gene two activates Gene 4 because Gene 2. Makes protein, too, that catalyze that reaction that produces this new tablet, which itself then active HT four, and so in a gene network. I will say Gene two activates Gene 4, but all of this stuff is there, it's just implicit. Now if all I do is observe the Messenger RNAs, I have no way to infer this, and I'm not even going to try. So my first step is going to be talking about the network switches again.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Work that I published a few years back. And I wanted exactly this. I wanted to produce data so that we could compare algorithms an I made up a system which created G networks automatically and G networks are not so hard to create automatically, because as I said, they really don't exist there phenomenological things. So because their phenomenological they don't have too many constraints. And that's why I can. Create them artificially very easily. So what the software does is that it first creates some kind of connectivity between genes. These are two examples is to have both of them have 1000 genes and 1000 connections. That just happened to be on different topologies. This one is a random type network where each gene has probability of connecting to any other gene. Equal probability of connecting to any other gene and this one. Here. Each gene has different probabilities of connecting whether the other genes is more connected already or not. So it's a so called barabasi talk network. It was created with the Albert Privacy and Algorithm. So first my software does. This creates a network topology, you tell it. Well, I want a network of this kind, let's say a scale free network or 50 jeans, and I want on average 22 connections for gene or four connections for gene for inputs. And the software will create the network. But that's just the connectivity who talks to whom, and then itself will. Then the connectivity is represented as various genes. Affecting the rate of synthesis of a particular gene, so they will either be inducing or repressing that gene. The degradation is kept constant, but there will be differentially questions representing synthesis and degradation for each single gene and the interactions. Then I also created a number of Perl scripts that essentially automate the whole thing once the model is created, then it can simulate a number of experiments, for example gene knockouts. I can do all the gene knockouts on each of these, or I can do all the heterozygous experiments. I can do perturbation experiments, etc. That's all essentially Perl scripts. Now this is all done with deposit my previous software which is not supposed to work from the command line and with a little clutch it does, but it's really very ugly so I have not made this software available even though I know there are people out there who ask for it. One of the things I want to do very soon is actually to convert all these with capacity, which properly runs on the command line and where we could do a much more professional job at this. This is this piece of software is for by all means a very rough prototype.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So we have to do transcription. I'm not going to go through that, I'm just going to say that I tried to make the transcription. Right as physiological as possible and that.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Is that they need to be saturable. This business of transcription is a constant happening at a constant rate is really not very good because at some point it will. Well, certainly it has to be induced and repressed, and with the amount of inducer it doesn't just go to Infinity. The amount that you can get over the rate of transcription at some point it will saturate as everything in biology. So we need some function that is like that, not just. A linear thing goes to Infinity, something for repression. So we played around with a number of things and came up with this generic equation which looks very much like a very generalized Hill type equation with activators or inhibitors terms. And there are multiplicative. So you just add more products, more terms. Each of these terms. This is the term for an activator, that's a temper inhibitor. And you just add them, and depending on the value of that N, this curve will be more. Cooperative or less cooperative. If the end is smaller. And they.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
We can add noise. There's many types of noise we can now. They could be additive noise. That is, you generate all the data and then you add the noise at the end. That more or less simulates measurement noise. Then you can also have intrinsic noise, which is a little bit tougher, which is every variable has noise on it during the process, so the noise itself is a time dependent process and this actually is better simulated using stochastic. Questions or Monte Carlo type methods, Gillespie algorithm and then you have biological variance in biological variance is translated in the following every time you do an experiment with a similar Organism, you'll get slightly different results and why most likely because in the beginning this Organism has slightly different values of the parameters, even though more or less on the same average. So in that case you generated several times, but changing adding noise to the actual parameter values.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And we tried just as the first Test to do this on methods to identify differential gene expression, which is the most basic thing people do with microarrays. And because of one of these methods is horrendously enormous. This mixed model for the whole experiment, which is a 3 way ANOVA. That has. A few 100 million terms. For a decent experiment. We could not run that with large number of genes. We had to actually use this very small number of genes. I think we only use 20 genes in this case just to show the example because to reduce the number of terms otherwise we couldn't get our two or. Or as to calculate anything. We did just a simple T test ANOVA, fixed model and over mixed model. In this case per gene doing 1 gene at a time. And.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
We looked at write to false positives. How many times did we not? Did we identify something to be significantly expressed when it really wasn't? Given that we know the original data and biological methods are very good at that they don't normally give you false results. These methods for differential expression.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Unfortunately, the false negatives are a different story. There's a lot of stuff they don't see that is there, and. This is increasing amounts of noise, and these are the number of false negatives, so you can see the T test gets really bad with a little bit of noise, it becomes essentially becomes blind with noise. Now the other models are a little better. At least let's do the mixed model for gene and for experiment. Where they seem to saturate at some point, more noise is not going to do much. More degradation so they seem to be robust to some extent, and more importantly, which is the practical result. The mixed model for gene that is, you do and essentially do one over per gene. Does a pretty good job. There is almost the same. Has almost the same characteristics as the mixed model for the whole experiment. The one that would have hundreds of millions of terms and so that means that you can practically. Do ANOVA gene by gene rather than using a term for jeans and therefore interactions of gene by arise, which is where you get the large number of terms. If you.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
360,000 genes, it's 16,000 * 300. There's a lot of terms there. Your our program will probably. Have a hiccup. I'm going to pass this on.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Yep, that's saying that in the previous one I just use kinetics for all the jeans wear the same. In this case I pick the network of 100 genes. Which is this horrendous. And.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
I tweak the kinetics such that genes are differently and I can obtain quite some complicated, very nonlinear dynamics, although this is the same trajectory, but looking at different variables an we just did a perturbation at time zero single point perturbation and the system is now. Relaxing back to the original state so you can see variables that go up and down like that. Others that do this, others that are much more almost switch like. Have some that have a peak but that have a very long lag and things like that, so this is quite hard data to fit. By the way, if you're trying to use this type of data so we can make these models very complex.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
How do we measure things? Well, I propose two ways. One is to use a confusion matrix. Except that this is not a binary confusion matrix. There is not just two states. There are in this case 3 states, so we look at the interactions between genes. So it's a matrix square matrix every gene versus every other team, and they have three possibilities. Either the two genes don't interact at all, which is zero. There either gene A induces gene B just positive, or jeanae represses gene B, which would be negative. So there is actually three states, so false negatives in this case would be. If it's either positive or negative, but you assume that it's 0. True positive is either it's a positive or negative and you get it exactly as positive or negative. An so on, so it's a bit more complicated, but you can still calculate all the rights of. The actual so this usually you do is the. Actual values go along the rows and the predicted ones goal on the columns. And you can calculate all the writes the other one is to use RC curves. RC curves you plot the specificity versus the sensitivity or 1 minus sensitivity. Actually I think. An what you want is something that is a method that sits over here where it has just no false negatives. And it has all the true positives. All the positives are true. All the negatives are true as well and they don't have any faults. And of course, the more they come down here, the worse they are.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So I'm going to show some example using another network which is now much more realistic, so I guess I have very few minutes. This one contains metabolism signaling an. And genetic regulation.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
It's called the clayter networks, 'cause we did it in a little retreat between our groups in like nearby. In Virginia called Clayter, so we call it that. People only know that this is a black box. It's a system has input, which is a substrate M 23. Just a name has a substance we add which is actually toxic, which is M1, and that this black box converts the toxic thing to M2, which is then less toxic. That's all people know. Internally there are 20 jeans, 23 protein forms. So we tell people that we did a microwave in this 20 jeans. In the microarray we did the 2D gel and there's 23 protein forms and we did some much packing their 16 with tablets. I can tell you three of the proteins that transcription factors in two of them are receptors. Each protein is produced by a gene.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
This protein is a receptor to that metabolite, produces the complex, and that complex is going to be transcription factor. Same thing with that protein in that metabolite, so there are signaling receptors.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
This is the metabolic network. It actually contains a real metabolic network or. Metabolic network like if you were by chemists, I could tell you this is a electron transport chain or something like electron transport chain, which is much more constrained than that linear pathway I told I showed in the beginning, which is really. An idealization, there is a substrate source that is used both for redox and for energy. This is an energy compound here, and this yellow part is about synthetic pathway. That is the important guy that is used to detoxify and one and that thing also has an alternative views. So it's actually a fairly small pathway. There's only 20 genes, but it's very complicated in its behavior, and it has a lot of the elements that most primitive organisms will have.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
And then there's some regulatory network. This is a feedforward loop like Yuri alone discovered, these are overrepresented, so we can play around with these things and try to make them as realistic as we can. And then we can produce.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Data we can do some perturbations and see what happens. So here we have the wild type. We change the level of substrate or the level of toxicant with a certain level of substrate, and this is how it. It detoxifies, this is the toxic thing, and that's the product of the toxic thing. Then we do a different level of the toxicant with the same amount of energy, and this is how long it takes. But then we do that amount of toxic input with less energy in the system, and it is slower to the great as we expected. Now it can do knockouts of various genes, and we see we have.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Different phenotypes. Some of them, this previous one is very fast. You could see everything happens very quickly, but it doesn't go all the way.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
This one is indistinguishable from the real one, and now I finished by.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
We use this to.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Compare for algorithms.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Famous algorithms. They are fairly bad, most of them there is one which seems to pass the mustard because I have to stop. I'll tell you it's the entire method from. Tim Gardner and Jim Collins group. Two of these are actually from my group, so I'm not biased. They didn't do very well.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
We use an RC curve just for the effect of noise, and there you actually see the biological bad. This is not really an RC curve like you see. This is really just. How it's like a phase space diagram more than more than an RC curve, but it's certainly the sensitivity, specificity and that's the entire method, so it's always there. Not so bad. The Bayesian network model. This one does pretty bad dynamic Bayesian network. It actually degrades very very very quickly with noise.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So I just end there thinking a number of people that I've already mentioned and so I thank you for your patience and I'm going to yield.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
OK questions. If you don't have questions, I'll talk more so. And then. Yes, so the objective function should be a metric that tells you how different your distance between your estimate and the model. There are many possible ones. You can use maximum likelihood criteria, so you could use functions that are based on that. You can use least squares methods. I normally use least squares methods. In fact, in certain conditions the least squares are also maximum likelihood. Yeah, you mean the experimental data? What do you use? Yeah. Right, so the time window is a big problem and the time window is. I think it goes like this. It's an experimental problem, essentially, but of course here I'm simulating experiments with my problem. Now. Essentially, you'll only going to discover the processes that are on the time scale that you make your measurements. Anything very fast or anything very slow is going to be completely invisible to any of these methods, any of them. So time scale separation is actually a hard problem, and we've had some results were trying to write a paper about that. When you have these time scale separations, you better ignore the variables that are very fast or very slow, and that you should be able to diagnose from the data. So if you have a curve with saturation, you probably want the part of the curve which is curving, not the not the saturable part. Otherwise your methods getting very. I mean you have very severe. Local minima and it will be very very hard to get the actual solution. But that's quite a problem. Got time for maybe one more question. I saw another hand before, but on the synthetic network with thousand 1000 genes or so, any method work on that side. We didn't try that one. No, that was more of an exercise to see a if my software could deal with the system that has 1000 differential equations and produced out of it, and certainly passed that test also with Mel, that was a good test to in very early days. This was one of the first slot. Very largest Mail files. Now I know you actually have a bigger one as well. We haven't tried that one now it's it's still, but I mean if I have to say 1000 is really genomic size now, 'cause I think lactococcus lactis probably has about 2000 genes. That's that order of magnitude, yeah. Problem is the data. How much data you're going to need? How many experiments do you need to do this? OK, let's.
