Summary In Universal Schema, we're going to embrace the diversity and ambiguity of all of our original inputs and not try to force them into predefined boxes or a single. For example, if you want to use Freebase, it's pretty hard because you have to study the Freebase schema and really understand it in order to know how to query it. And Furthermore, we're following this philosophy in a way that we're using the model to predict original expressions or the original data in text or in the observed. So for example, we might be interested in who did Jeff Bezos criticize? For each one of these entity types that looks at. Learn those parameters and then given any particular intervention, use this classifier to predict what the type is and. But here we're making a binary prediction, and so instead will replace this. We can get a gradient from this either by log likelihood or by some ranking based objective, which I'll describe in a minute, and by this gradient some parameters we can then use some stochastic gradient descent optimized with various methods, including if it's like at a grad to nudge all of our parameters in the right direction and train until we get some kind of convergence. We took the full text of 20 years of New York Times news articles, extracted entity mentions, perform density resolution. Got about 350 entity pairs that appeared within close enough proximity to each other that we could claim that there was some textually expressed relation between them. Names of countries tend to cluster together and names of cities clustered together, but even the vector distance between a country and its capital. We built this system which spider the web for research papers and information extraction to get the title of the authors. These word embeddings that we've been talking about, and they've been really useful. And so they've been using low level NLP and we and others have used them to get new state of the art results in named entity extraction. They've been used for machine translation and very exciting ways. Location goals, which is to build a knowledge base of all scientists in the world by extracting and integrating information from papers and patents webpages. Even tweets and blogs and to get not only established scientists but also the newly arrived first year graduate students and to understand their career trajectories and so on. To help people find papers to read and to site to help people find reviewers, collaborators, Hieros and also to understand the trends and landscape of science. And so there's related work as I said by Neil OW, using rules on symbols. With about 25,000 different relation types. Observing the text was born in with the mailing address. Some of these, the majority of these are doing joint inference on what I think of as a budding tasks early in the information extraction pipeline joint part of speech tagging and shallow parsing. Bring to bear that we can integrate together. And how should we use the knowledge base contents to help information extraction? I'm going to have all those documents, but then tomorrow I'm going to receive another 10 million documents and. So how can I? And there's some sense in which the truth discovery happens inside the knowledge base. Natasha said this thing was true and we can reason about that evidence alongside the rest of the evidence and reason simultaneously. Done work in this area as well and you get clusters that look something like this, so we see things like relation 3. This is a certain type of relation and there's some mutual implicature here. There, a professor at a University. But in just about any schema it's it's going to be incomplete. They're going to boundary cases. Kind of generalized principle components analysis that is very similar to the kinds of methods used to win the Netflix Prize. Or maybe the other way around, so maybe we should say that the movie watchers are in the rows and movies are in the columns and you tell Netflix a few examples of movies you like and don't like. We observed that Volvo bought a stake in Scanio, another car company, and we inferred that Volvo owns a percentage of Kenya. We observe that Kevin Boyle is a historian at Ohio State, and we infer that he's a professor at Ohio State. I've been running this on entity types as well, in which we put single entities in the Rose and entity types in the column. So, for example, we observe that Bill Gates is a person, and he's a film subject. We observed that Peter Norton is an entrepreneur, philanthropist, and magnatone be inferred that he's a mogul alright.