My research is really about how the machine learning systems that are currently being deployed and piloted in public sector situations and environments across the across sectors and across the across countries. Coded crime records address registers if they're correct. So an NGO predictive at an NGO analyst working in consortia with the Police Department and a local authority on a predicted program to detect child abuse was very concerned that by doing this by quantifying this and by building these models, you're surely going to find stuff about the current system which is really unpleasant and shocking. An that's what the local government partner was afraid of in terms of opening up the way the system was working and they really wanted to open up and they were doing it. The previous one, external information and advice is really important to govern systems ex ante we talk about analyzing systems of bias and fairness, but this is after they put into place and we often asked to do something like a privacy impact assessment, data protection impact assessment. So whether a child is deaf or disabled is empirically linked to abuse, according to NGO research. But of course local governments are aware they don't want parents singled out as potential abusers simply because they have a disabled child. Former police lead on a national predictive policing project. This is a sort of pred Pol style geospatial risk project. So there he or she presents what they think is going on in this map, and what could be done about it. Now is now the actual police lead said that they ask intelligence officers to, essentially who read the local reports you filed them, who know what's going on in a particular area. 4th Dynamic primary purposes data undermine modeling. And we're just capturing this for administrative purposes, but we really need to be using it for great other reasons. So a model letter at a regional Police Department told me this story said Intelligence Department are different part of the Police Department got a tip off and looked into cases of human trafficking at car washes. Now over became a carwash detector, because the actual the logic of collection of data from the intelligence officers wasn't sampling at random it was selecting something based on a hunch. Ann is one woman who calls in whenever her kid is out after 10:00 PM. He's back. But regardless of politics, and I know things have been changing recently, we usually want the public sector to have many characteristics, and I'm not going to go through them. Last point is that feedback loops often matter in public sector and the private sector that it matters much. Say that the highest probability assessments are on the mark, but actually when you deploy a police officers to replace, it does cause displacement, just dispersion and diffusion and that throws the algorithm into a loop as you deploy resources. This goes through the roof. So race is really predictive of reoffending, but we don't include race in our predictive models because conviction is only a proxy variable for offending and you can get into cycles looking at certain so-called races, which might have a higher chance of being convicted. So if you do this. Transparency brings mixed blessings, so we need to consider and study if and how people gain understand models, we have to look at them in the context of how they used in public administrations in police departments, because we have almost no people doing empirical research on that. If we finished off about this area, how to understand fairness issues where you don't have access to data about say race and gender and so on? Organizational routines can be rich, so how do they emerge and evolve? Or some better than others? And these feedback loops are really largely ignored and potentially invalidates some of the ways that we've been developing today. Sometimes they come in through formal documents. Obviously, privacy impact assessments we have in the UK or something called Backward Book which is about quality assurance in government analytical models and algorithms, and that was published 3 four years ago and at QuickBooks at the government. Can we sell our training model to other government departments? We work at how good or bad it is. Oh don't use neural networks. So these are people who have been involved in piloting and managing systems for prediction, anticipation detection, today, police tax, child Protection, Fire Council services, interior affairs, prison management and even emergency helicopter support. So in compliance models, tax compliance, they don't give many details because they are primarily concerned that if the model weights are public, their usefulness would diminish identifying tax fraud.