[0.0s - 29.0s]
So unfortunately this one is not. This one is not square, it's widescreen, so you might just squint, but it's quite big. So if anyone seen this show, it's a British show called Yes Minister. Yes, Prime Minister is there was different series when Jim Hacker became Prime Minister and it's really a story about how civil servants administers work together in a pretty haphazard and controlling way. And when we think about civil servants, we often and IT we often think of this part of the image which is not actually originally from the show, but we often think that they're not very good with it. My research is really about how the machine learning systems that are currently being deployed and piloted in public sector situations and environments across the across sectors and across the across countries. Deployed in practice are monitored in practice. People try to make them fair and accountable in new ways. So I am going to talk.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Firstly, about the kind of applications I'm talking about, some of them we've seen over the last two days, anticipation when we look at look into the future and we try to guess something that hasn't happened yet, so we might see their crime hotspots trying to detect which households might be abusive in the future, which restaurants might not have had a food safety breach, and you can see some of there's a bit of a blurring between anticipation present and future. The solvability of crimes. Another system that's being deployed in them in the UK in certain contexts. I'm trying to text which firms are going to become insolvent in the next six 1012 months. You've also got detection. Sometimes it's called, now casting. It's where you only measure something else. You measure different variables and you try to use that to infer something that is happening or has already happened, for example, whether a tax return is fraudulent. There is usually a correct or false answer about this, but you might not have the information to actually understand this incorrectly. Coded crime records address registers if they're correct. A lot about data cleaning, data quality, or changes in statistics like poverty and socioeconomic. Data between census is.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Now. The public sector does arguably in the public administration literature, have a set of values which we want to maintain, and there's a bit of contestation about what these actually are. But regardless of politics, and I know things have been changing recently, we usually want the public sector to have many characteristics, and I'm not going to go through them. But some of them are here, and I'm going to focus on the top three, which is fairness and equity accountability and reliability, which is what I focus on my work. But this is actually a whole range of range of topics. And we're.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Interested in how these values get translated into software systems and the social and institutional contexts around them when they're deployed? In the public administration literature, there's a big literature on street level bureaucrats, and saying that the people who have face to face interaction with citizens in different forms, whether it's at a post office for example, or assessing people the disability. What they have a lot of discretion and in fact they interpret a lot of the Gray areas of the law and they add their own values into it, and it often a necessary part of the process. Because they have to deal with situations that weren't really planned for, so there's a big literature on where discretion happens around the street level. But there's also electron, where this happens when we digitize government. So do we see discretion go up to the system level where people design software systems that remove discretion and formalize it and take it away from people who now just work at the screen level, dealing with pieces of software. In fact, a lot of research that's been published says that's not really the case. All it is is the discretion that happens at the screen level for people gaming and playing the system becomes a bit harder to see. So where the values come in in this translation?

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Sometimes they come in through formal documents. We have the UK government's data science ethical framework for the use of machine learning and government, for example. Obviously, privacy impact assessments we have in the UK or something called Backward Book which is about quality assurance in government analytical models and algorithms, and that was published 3 four years ago and at QuickBooks at the government. UK Civil Service has a lot of books like the Green Book is really about policy making. The Magenta book is about evaluation, but you also see more informal or cross sectoral approaches to sharing knowledge or in this space.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
You also see the issues like fairness are not really issues of bias in algorithms and data alone. That's pretty narrow when we look at that. OK, those are issues, but we find that this is all compounded by a range of questions across the machine learning process. Can we sell our training model to other government departments? Ono, a model I just got poached or were incentivized to change what we do now? We work at how good or bad it is. Oh don't use neural networks. It sounds too arcane for the minister. Is it enough like water Department? While lawyers thinking of course you think alot of things many of you about this area. And so this is all interplaying and actually bias and issues around bias, accountability and so on interact with these.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So what I did, and I've skipped a lot of presentation I usually give to squash it down as I interview 27 individuals in across five countries, which I'm not going to give the OECD countries. But for anonymity reasons of ice, I interviewed ahead of tax analytics doing a particular thing. You can deanonymize them pretty quickly if you know what different tax Department do. So five countries and I asked them about barriers, opportunities, ethical challenges in their deployment of machine learning. So these are people who have been involved in piloting and managing systems for prediction, anticipation detection, today, police tax, child Protection, Fire Council services, interior affairs, prison management and even emergency helicopter support. Focused on people who manage projects and own projects or do the technical side of modeling, not the screen level I just mentioned earlier on. Not the people who are interpreting the systems or the data coming out of machine learning, but the people who are designing the systems as a first pass.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And I'm going to get 5 core takeaways from these interviews and illustrate them with some quotes. So firstly transparency, which we often call for, brings mixed blessings on the ground and is interpreted to bring mixed blessings because it interacts with social factors around the use of these systems.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So an analytics leader, national Tax Agency was very worried about the use of gaming by these systems by the public. So in compliance models, tax compliance, they don't give many details because they are primarily concerned that if the model weights are public, their usefulness would diminish identifying tax fraud. So that's a commonly thrown around argument in this area, so it's not particularly new.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
I missed one yet, other than a different analysts are different, tax service was concerned not about gaming by the public. People trying to beat the tax system, but by gaming by auditors who were being, you are using this as decision support, so they were very concerned that if they gave the factors that lead into a model, if they gave explanations of how the system works, people are going to start judging and investigating on the basis of those explanations. So say you had a lot of tax happening in Norwich or near Edinburgh tax fraud happening in Norwich on your Edinburgh or something like that among certain demographics. Auditors might start just investigating those areas because they have a lot of discretion on where to look when the risk score was actually capturing something about a more complex synergy of variables. So this tax agency really wanted to take control of this discretion and say we want to understand the fairness and do fairness analysis on this. We don't want you to interpret this incorrectly.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
A different model at another National Tax agency was then worried that their internal customers, because a lot of how these departments work, having analytic departments have internal customers in different parts of government might be scared off by lack of transparency because it might make them concerned they're picking up protected characteristics and using them in directly, so that's why they don't use neural networks, for example. Or they only use systems that they can give clear explanations for because it doesn't doesn't get internal buying.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
An another type of transparency is is actually, I think, more related to policy problems in general. So we can say system is biased or fair or horrible, but compared to what? So an NGO predictive at an NGO analyst working in consortia with the Police Department and a local authority on a predicted program to detect child abuse was very concerned that by doing this by quantifying this and by building these models, you're surely going to find stuff about the current system which is really unpleasant and shocking. You're going to find all these skeletons in the closet. Or shocks they said. What is this algorithm going to unearth? An that's what the local government partner was afraid of in terms of opening up the way the system was working and they really wanted to open up and they were doing it. So let's see. This is a very busy, very nice project and people are very concerned about the right things in my opinion.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
But these are concerns that people have on the ground deploying these projects today. So they can take away. This is a much shorter one. The previous one, external information and advice is really important to govern systems ex ante we talk about analyzing systems of bias and fairness, but this is after they put into place and we often asked to do something like a privacy impact assessment, data protection impact assessment. It happens before we link the data and so we can't do much fairness analysis because we haven't left the data together. So that's a prime issue.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And this came up few times in interviews. So whether a child is deaf or disabled is empirically linked to abuse, according to NGO research. I was told by the police elite of a child protective child abuse predictive analytics project. But of course local governments are aware they don't want parents singled out as potential abusers simply because they have a disabled child. So in their privacy impact assessment that was submitted for this project. They outline this. They said here are potential fairness issues. We're going to come up with. We've anticipated them, but we haven't been able to do in data analysis because we haven't left the data together yet.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
3rd, take away. There's bringing humans into the loop is a really rich field and I think we often have over the last couple of days. Heard a lot of people say that people are going to blindly follow algorithms. People are going to believe their neutral people are going to just follow them unquestioningly and it's going to be very destructive and there are these worries, but if you go in the ground and say how these are actually being used in practice, we're really seeing that there are complex social and organizational routines and guidelines that are being built up to avoid things like automation bias and over reliance. And to complement their new types of knowledge. So. The.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Former police lead on a national predictive policing project. This is a sort of pred Pol style geospatial risk project. Said they had weekly meetings with all the officers, Leadership, Management patrol and so on. An intelligence officers are at the core of the meeting. These are usually people who produce these Maps by hand, and now they've been producing them with the assistance of software they built. So there he or she presents what they think is going on in this map, and what could be done about it. So that's the kind of meeting approach and.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
In the same the same project, there are police leaders, not the form one. Now is now the actual police lead said that they ask intelligence officers to, essentially who read the local reports you filed them, who know what's going on in a particular area. They take the output of the map and they spend one or two days augmenting it and saying that building has just had the locks changed. For example, there's No Fear of burglary there. We just arranged that. So we're going to we're going to remove that from the map, or we've caught this burglar in this particular area, and we're pretty sure they were responsible for all these red points here. So we're going to clean that out. And they alter this and provide context.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
4th Dynamic primary purposes data undermine modeling. Potentially so data. We say, oh, it's just a byproduct of a lot of different processes and we can use it, and we can mine it like oil and it's full of insights. And we're just capturing this for administrative purposes, but we really need to be using it for great other reasons. But this data was not collected with modeling in mind, and we have to remember that and it comes out really stark.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So a model letter at a regional Police Department told me this story said Intelligence Department are different part of the Police Department got a tip off and looked into cases of human trafficking at car washes. So those of you who are aware of issues around modern slavery know that there's a lot of informal labor at areas like car washes where people aren't paid and often traffic Din answer the intelligence officers looked at and filed intelligence about different car washes, but the model they were building to try and understand where human trafficking was occurring most and the path for it. Now over became a carwash detector, because the actual the logic of collection of data from the intelligence officers wasn't sampling at random it was selecting something based on a hunch. So they made a model that told them where car washes are and this kind of feedback loop is really hard to explain to those higher up, especially because a lot of the time these are pilot projects you can't go and knock on the door of intelligence officers and say stop doing that or tell us when you're going to do that and so the organizational links that allow you to deal with these kind of problematic assumptions. Are not there.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
At the same police officer told me who was modeling for different areas. Said that, they were making a predictive system to try and detect when children go missing most on different days so they could allocate resources better and say we can stuff the kind of hotlines and get people ready to deal with missing children at certain times of the day. Ann is one woman who calls in whenever her kid is out after 10:00 PM. I was told she calls back about 30 minutes later every time and says everything is fine. He's back. He came back. But in the model it always looks like kids go missing it at 10:00 PM every single day. Because of this one continuous pattern that happens and so in the end they had to filter her out of the model by name when it was put in. And of course you can imagine if this could actually go missing. And then there was an inquiry and said, you know what happened and they said, well the Police Department filter out by name from the system so it didn't go feed into the. System, so this is actually a very difficult situation to deal with when you get this area, and it's not exactly gaming, she's not trying to game the model, it's a problem that you get in machine learning by by creating a regular bias in the Cisco sense, it will really change the system.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Last point is that feedback loops often matter in public sector and the private sector that it matters much. We take a lot of the logic from how to build machine learning systems from people like Google, Google who build them for the context of low stakes decisions and the GPL sense, but low sense, low stakes decisions to deliver adverts or not, and if I get an advert delivered it doesn't really matter. In the end it's not going to affect me greatly. Maybe if I pervasively get a lot of information structured about my life, but an individual advert delivered is probably not going to change my life and behavior. Significantly as one thing? But in the public sector, individual decisions do matter, and so the assumptions that we built and we've taken from private sector machine learning often fail in the public sector.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So ahead of analytics, our city Police Department also building in house a system that resembles Pred Pol, but they think is much better because they're not convinced that purple is any good. Say that the highest probability assessments are on the mark, but actually when you deploy a police officers to replace, it does cause displacement, just dispersion and diffusion and that throws the algorithm into a loop as you deploy resources. This goes through the roof. So in the first four weeks of trying out the system that built the probability of being correct. Just tanked, just went completely down because of these feedback loops because you've captured low hanging fruit. Maybe you'd found in the historical model.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
A modular justice ministry dealing with machine learning in the prison system. Machine learning to allocate courses to people in prisons based on risk says that they don't use things like race, not because they're protected characteristics, but for other reasons. So race is really predictive of reoffending, but we don't include race in our predictive models because conviction is only a proxy variable for offending and you can get into cycles looking at certain so-called races, which might have a higher chance of being convicted. So if you do this. You're building systems not based on the outcome of who committed a crime, but based on the proxy outcome of who was arrested. So they're very well aware of these issues and try to deal with them in their data quality because they know they're going to be building in these biases, but they don't necessarily have the capacity to do that so easily.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So they take the importance of these five takeaways, I think. Transparency brings mixed blessings, so we need to consider and study if and how people gain understand models, we have to look at them in the context of how they used in public administrations in police departments, because we have almost no people doing empirical research on that. And unlike in the states, we haven't burnt all bridges for collaboration by having a feeling that we're going in to find racist algorithms and get academic credit from that. So we need to build collaborations. And I know people in the room have been doing that with different entities and public sectors, because without that I think it's going to be very difficult to understand. How these systems work in practice and what they do in practice? External information advice is really important for understanding whether a system is going to be bad or not. We had to talk about technology assessment earlier on and this kind of area of things and it's very difficult to assess technologies without having a good body of information beforehand. And I have a paper under review with my colleague Rubens. Email should be in big data and society. If we finished off about this area, how to understand fairness issues where you don't have access to data about say race and gender and so on? Organizational routines can be rich, so how do they emerge and evolve? Or some better than others? How do we bridge machine learning assumptions and organizational reality? Because the feedback loops that we find. And these feedback loops are really largely ignored and potentially invalidates some of the ways that we've been developing today. Bias systems and OK, that's pretty contentious, but there's been lots of work on debiasing systems from the language systems that you were talking about paper last year, and have Tobias, those and people agree and disagree with that 2 range of topics that those are from the Netherlands will know about the project for the LED to the 2013 book with Tone Calderson Bar Coasters. And can we elicit and simulate feedbacks? Because they might break these systems.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So that's it for me. Hopefully overtime I didn't actually plan for that. But yeah, if any questions or we can do questions at the end.
