And the problem of the model is. Actually, not all the researchers are equal of equal importance to the company. So we have another model weighted additive model. In this model, which we add a weight to. And again, the problem of the weighted. These researchers will have high influence to each other and they may have high internal influence leading to some bias in the model so. Finally, we have served model, so basic idea here is we put the research that collaborate with each other a lot into a cluster and we will use them as a virtual researcher. We just applies a weighted additive model to the Super researchers. For clustering we need a similarity of nodes. Such cards, coefficients on the number of publications, and. And in this model, given a threshold TH connects two nodes only when the similarity of the two nodes is no less than T. So we can generate a set a set of clusters by searching the clicks in the graph. OK, to all knowledge his work is the first one on mining influence between academia and. So to find this AT, we first compute the pairwise similarity for all the nodes in the cluster network, and we prove at least one of the pair wise similarity is able to minimize FT. Of the researchers in the cluster. We also computed the influence between pair of clusters based on the weights of researchers in two clusters. Then we compute the weights of a cluster as a total influence from the cluster divided by the total influence of the. And then finally we compute the influence of academia researcher to accompany C according to the normal weighted additive model by considering each cluster as virtual researcher. This formula is quite similar to the weighted model, and it's just. In the simulated data we generate a company with 200. Yes, we did find the two types. We also selected 220 influence, same group researchers who influence researchers in the same group of the company and then we rank the academia researchers according to their influence using different models and we expect the top 20 most influential researchers should be. In the first one, the researchers in the same group have low influence to each other, so therefore there is no path towards the research who published often and in the second one the researchers in the same group. OK, now we conclude in this paper we address this problem of mining research topic specific influence between academia and industry. This method is based on topic topical affinity propagation. So advantage of the method is it models so influence among among researchers on specific.