The first talk we have using cloud shadows to infer scene structure and camera calibration is from Nathan Jacobs, Brian Buys and Robert Pless Washington University in Saint Louis, and it's going to be presented by Nathan Jacobs. So the way this algorithm works is we first compute correlations between pairs of pixels and then we use these correlation Maps to estimate the focal length and to create an initial planar depth map. Start an iterative process where we have three steps from this iterative process. We're going to estimate what is the expected distance for a given correlation. So first is estimating the correlation to distance mapping. So now we use this correlation to distance mapping to then update our depth map. Where this is the correlation to distance mapping that we just estimated. At the bottom you have the camera location and then you have the pixel Rays in yellow coming up. So to give a quick recap of what I've shown so far, so we're assuming that we have this monotonically decreasing relationship between correlation and distance. The point Y is seeing roughly the same pattern of clouds as X, with a slight temporal delay. So this allows us to define a set of linear constraints on the locations of points in the world. In the following with the following false color images, so we've used the Hue to denote the temporal delay between the pairs of pixels and the brightness to denote the confidence in this estimate of the temporal delay. Basically it says that nearby points. Then I'll describe a temporal delay queue which basically says that the wind is pushing the clouds across the scene, and this gives us some constraints. Everything is related to everything else, but near things are. So that allows us to make this false color image where white is correlation one and black is correlation zero, and so you can see clearly from this image that correlation is related to distance. So the big question is, what is the relationship between correlation and distance?