I will in the remaining hours all introduce you to machine learning. Field of computer security or where we have been working at our group at Crownover first since about four five years. I will start in the talk with a short programming quiz. Redmap he's going to sleep for awhile, you know, 5 seconds, not more. Show something else. The key part of a signature based IDs as signature engine, which is basically doing nothing else than string match. One can leverage the damage from this kind of attack in very short time, so there's been actually studies on models of warm proliferation that have shown that a warm can so if equipped with this with a very aggressive distribution strategy can capture all vulnerable Internet services within 15 minutes. So what you're dealing with is actually millions and millions of packets per day, and it suffices to have an extremely low false positive rate in order to annoy a System Administrator. So what can we do with machine learning in order to? So in machine learning we understand what it means to. For machine learning, we learn some compact representation, so think of the signature based approach. Also typical for other applications of machine learning security domains. In order to get label, you have to analyze some really very complicated information. So a general structure of our system basically follows the typical. So anomaly detection, classification, clustering, ranking, etc. So one of them is a header which represents which carries some information from network and the Transport layer protocol. So the simplest way is to consider payload as just a sequence of raw bytes. You can try to build a protocol parser that does take syntactic and semantic information. In order to deal with those various similarity measures sufficiently, we have come up with a way to. Compute those similarity measures and a unified fashion. For that, the algorithms that run in linear time that have efficient indexing of all those dimensions because those. We can also see that the new attacks can be automated and distributed very fast, so you know most of the programs are most of the hackers do not really launch those attacks by hand. It turns out that so once you have this, this representation of the data or this this way to compute similarity measures, you can use a variety of anomaly detection algorithms. So one notion is, for example the center of mass, where you sort of. Another way to do anomaly detection is to use clustering and then measure animality of a point by the as a as an inverse of the cardinality of the cluster that. So we have created our own data set at our Institute where we have invited a penetration testing expert to attack a model system that we have set up in a virtual environment. So we have collected attacks in this way and it also collected data in normal environment by inviting people to use those services. So the first experiment we have evaluate the impact of barriers of different algorithms on this kind of data. What was interesting is that. But the best algorithm for each protocol is different. So to conclude, I have shown that machine learning is can be available tool for intrusion detection. So we have seen it as a complementary approach. An we're looking for further application of machine learning and security domain so we can conceive of possibly detecting compromised computers due to their normal behavior. As a little advertisement, I hope I've shown you tip of the iceberg of what machine learning can do in the computer security domain, and if some of you are planning to travel to the nips myself and rich Lipman from the MIT Lincoln Lab organizing the Workshop on Machine learning by the several environments in general, and also for those in particular for computer security. OK, so let me introduce you to the intrusion detection systems, which is the topic that I've been working on for awhile and so basically the idea of an intrusion detection system is that you monitor some network traffic or in general event streams for evidence of attacks, and to use this information for maybe either finding out what's going on or perhaps even controlling the systems operation.