[0.0s - 29.0s]
So this is a Type 1A supernova explosion of a white dwarf star, an external Galaxy. Right, so we can see the very far distance is the reason we're interested in this for cosmologies becausw they have a very limited range of luminosity, so we can think of them almost as standard candles and the standard panel principle is the idea that if you have a class object with Marty at different distances, you can figure out their distances just by looking at how faint they appear to us. Unfortunately, we're not exactly standard candles, but there are known correlations between the shapes of the time series or light curves as we call them. Um, over multiple wavelengths in the optical BVR I&J&H. So here's an example of a Type 1A supernova light curve observed by the CFA Supernova Group, and so this information in this light curve, which allows us to estimate which is correlated with luminosity, allows us to estimate the distance is. So if one carries out this program for a large number of supernova over many distances, one can measure the distance versus redshift relation ship, which is depend on cosmos parameters, which disallows two inferences on, for example, dark energy. So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Cosmology inferences are based on these empirical relations. Ansos commercials have to learn from the data and we have to deal with several sources, randomness and certainty. First, there's the measurement errors. This measuring the brightness of a supernova, but their astrophysical sources randomisers intrinsic variation. Every supernova different luminosity like her shaping color over different times in different wavelengths. The relationship between distance and velocity is not deterministic. The random cover losses of the galaxies in the Hubble flow, and there's host Galaxy dust. There's dust in this host Galaxy which causes so much supernova look dimmer without making it farther away, so there's a confounding effect between Dustin Distance and so the observed data distributions are convolutions of all these effects, and so, how do I incorporate all these into experience to model? How do I optimally extract the information to predict the supernova distances? So my strategy was to build a hierarchal Bayesian model. Which is basically structured probability model describing the general process for the data and describing these various sources of randomness. So here.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Is a graphical model describing the Oracle basing model. There's a dust population. There's an absolutely curve intrinsic lecture population for each supernova we have random draws from those populations, which, combined with the distance mu, this modulus mu to give the apparently curve with sampled with noise to give the data set. I just show you for one supernova and the relationship between redshift and this modulus is a bit noisy, so if we have a training set in the nearby universe where we can constrain the distance with the redshift using the Hubble law. We can learn about the population, so we want to predict the distances. We can extend this graph to figure out the distance modulus predicted from the light curve, and so this describes the posterior probability density of all unknown things in the white box is conditional on the Gray boxes, which are the data. And so I compute this using MCMC algorithm.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Help called Bayesian. So in less 30 seconds I'm going to talk about a little bit of other inferences one can make with Oracle. Model inference is for the individual supernova and also for the population. There's more of this in my poster. Basic idea is that we include there for a data at the optical won't constrain the estimates of the Dustin distance a lot. Much better, much better than with optical alone. When I cross validate this against the Hubble law, distances, for example, including the infrared increases position of the cross validated distance, predictions by about double. So that's the astrophysical consequences, and you haven't said anything yet, so. There's also low correlation between optical near Fred luminosities, which which leads to this effect, and one can also learn about interesting properties about the host Galaxy does. There appears to be different properties of the dust at high amounts of dust as post low amounts of dust, and you still haven't said anything. OK. Maybe I skipped a slide from work. I don't know. It was 4 minutes when I timed it. OK, there we go.
