But the data points that have large vertical distance. While if you look at support vector machines and in particular let's look at the RBF kernel, the RBF kernel is defined as this equation here. Distance if you expansion, exponentiate the Euclidean distance. Everything is reported relative to support Vector machine under the Euclidean distance where I chose the kernel width and the private parameters with cross validation. So here a bunch of UCI datasets and we just chose me to try to choose all the all the binary datasets and. One thing is to use the squared hinge loss. So instead of writing kmu just right, K M + 1 / C times the identity matrix. And imagine if this image here on the left and you would like to find the most similar image in the database to that query and so well, do you know? Now if we have this great information, we can just go ahead and do gradient descent. The validation error which is going down nicely. That's what we're mimicking with this loss function. This is on UCI credit card data set. I hope it turns out that if you use instead of gradient descent, use conjugate gradient descent. It's very very straightforward optimization and then actually makes it a lot faster than cross validation and all of the data sets to be tested on average about four times faster than cross validation. So you have an image and then there is a rectangle and the task is to predict whether the vertical line, whether the rectangle is kind of longer vertically and horizontally. So for example here as you might be able to see this as a rectangle, that's look different than the background, and so you should be able to predict that here the vertical line is longer than this horizontal line, so that's you know, even reasonably challenging for humans. We don't even know how useful they are, so we use metric learning to basically re scale these hidden layers and combine them. Maybe a good good alternative to cross validation so you actually learning a metric and that's actually can be very fast and actually does an average slightly better than tweaking your parameters cross validation. And if you have a challenging problem that features come from incompatible sources, than actually this can help quite significantly. Pretty really depends on the context, so you know what is our problem that we are trying to solve.