We define the quality of products for product PJ. And why is inverse of price? So if we have a product P1 with quality vector 24 one over 125, it means that this product has 24 hours of battery life and cost $125.00. Consumers only buy the farthest satisfactory products from them, where why? This problem came most marketable products. Problem came in people shot. So we can maximize the expected market share of both. But we cannot use exhaustive search algorithm for when K is larger than one because we prove that this problem is NP hard. We select the solution of the top one algorithm and of course we need to update the product sets and then repeat K times. An exhaustive search algorithm when varying the number of the candidate products in and the number on the left and the number of products we want to select K on the right and walk up served at here. So we prove that our algorithm can provide at least 1 -- 1 every approximation and again we use data to examine the accuracy. So on average, here we have a 96% approximation and even in the worst case is about 82%, so it's much better, much higher than the lower bound one 1 -- 1 / E. So now we have pharmacy. We need to answer how to select these metrics. Our work, we propose learning method we learn from the historical purchase data. The first one is we need to know the real world market share of a subset of products so we don't need to know that we don't need to know the real market share of all the products, just a subset. We know the real world market share and there are three potential different metrics. In the first step, we calculate the expected market share on the different distance metrics using our method. Market share by summing up they expect expected market share weighted by this distribution Theta. So in the third step. The first one is discrete metric, where we set all the distance to one. Here we want to describe describe those consumers who have a really tight budget and we just want the cheapest product. Firstly, we examined the accuracy of our learning method. We use normalized mercy to measure the measured accuracy and here we vary the number of products we know the real world market share. Parts of a real real problem we try to find the two most marketable products here in this. If we only use one this metric. So here is a table shows the ID and the and the market share of the selected products under the four different metrics. So the idea of the selected products actually is totally different from all the four results above. So our title is not lying. In this paper we formulate the problem of product selection mdpi problem and we model the consumer behavior using a general distance distance, distance based adoption model where we can use all kinds of these metrics to describe different consumer behavior and we provide a learning method to determine which these metrics we should use in different scenario and we prove the problem is NP hard and provide the efficiency and.