One is operating in the jewel and has been submitted to linear SVM truck and they also want is operating in the primal has been submitted to the Wild Track. Both of them are online algorithm and they both converge to the exam solution after a few epochs. So why are we using lean as well? And here's the primal cost. Reduce the number of epoch needed to reach the convergence and it's it's good on the primal, and it's also efficient for the test error, so this disagree with what just was the conclusion of the previous talk that maybe it would be interesting to have algorithm reducing the number of epochs. We normalize everything to have maximal absolute value of one another. So the primary problem of the SVM can be rewritten like this. We just draw a training, training examples and then you compute the new value of new. And so we just do that and we iterate. So what people propose it was just like to use the sudden order stochastic gradient. So doing that, the algorithm algorithm stay the same, and doing that it can be shown that the parameter obtain after one pass is as close to the infinite training set solution as the true optimum of the primal, which means this is the same ideas that have been used. The thing is that these two value gives really noisy estimates. So you you go on the you next iteration you update your parameter and you re compute the gradient gradient on the same example and you see and you can have a good estimate of the different of the full gradient of the primal like like this. On the same example and not here, you could say that you want to use it on two successive example. And what we do now is that during training we update the diagonal estimated metrics D online using a little leaky estimate. You draw a random training example, you compute the gradient. And your update right away, your parameter vector with that with the metrics D and and we still keep this factor decreasing in team. Because this operation is much more costly than this one, and so you don't want to do this one all the time, that's a trick that is living with you is already using in the logical and when you do that you also say, OK, I'm going to update my my D metrics now. It's regarding the number of epochs and regarding the training times here. And So what we see is that the two 2nd order methods like acidic when he ran all beers. Yes, they help lot reducing the number of ebook there after only one April there there almost there. In the end, that's what is used, and you can also consider the difference between the achieved error rates and the best achievable error rates. That seems good, but as at this time, if you're considering a large scale set up, there is a point where you will double, or increasing a lot the number of examples and will cost you a lot of computation. And that's why complex model could not win the competition. And you can use some strategy like for example seeking more accuracy on the test set. And it's not like cheating just for the test that you just seeking more accuracy and the small set optimizing more on them are artificially augmenting the computational effort on running more at work on the small set. And so that's why we think that trying to eliminate the engineering bias is maybe not the best way. The first property is that the gradient is. This direction is at least greater than a small torrent store, and the second the properties that we can do a movement of at least a small Torrance cap in this direction without leaving the constraint Polito.