OK, so if you have geometric view of say, our beliefs in the white space, we might say. Simple, and what you'll notice is that this is just a product of linear constraints. Now this is just integration of our functions respectful uniform over the convex polytope, but just is the problem right so? Exact closed form the sampling methods, and in fact slice sampling tends to work quite well for convex polytopes, but again, no one doesn't close form. To do this, I want to introduce some machinery first, so I need this thing called a case representation. But I'll say for a lot of extensions I want in the future you're going to actually full polynomials here, not just constant. OK so I went to Beijing pairwise preference sorting and I'll get the exact inference later. OK, so we have all the operations in theory. An one problem here is that Max who gets Max operation, which is a new operation can get your test out of order right? I don't know your utility items without those preferences, but as I get preference feedback from you, I can sort of build utility model view and not only allows me to know what you currently like, predicting future things that you would like. OK, and there is actually a nice way to do this, so just quickly imagine that Z is out of order with respect to sub diagrams. I used the constraint checker for the constraint solver of an LP straight checker of an LP solver and detect these inconsistencies and improving them. So we need to look at further. So eventually we will look at preferences location in this framework and be really nice actually to compare to Gaussian models, right? When I want to recommend you hear well item two, its mean is highest by item one. So I I can look at what's expected, loss of making a decision right? Even if you have dislikes, you have little comparative data between items. OK, but these are allowed for arbitrary arbitrary distinctions, so right? Excluding preferences, but what did you really like better, right? So my very nice performance feedback is choice queries. So here you're just picking a favorite item from a set of items. Right, you know? Lottery finalist actions. OK, so let's take a basic beige utility model in this working very simple model and actively independent model. So the utility is just dot product.