One is to solve the Knowledge acquisition bottleneck and the other one is as a basis for a new paradigm of search and interaction based on extractions. But I'll refer you to the papers for that. So if the sentence is Edison, was the inventor of the light bulb, then I might come up with the relation invented of Edison, the light bulb with a probability of .9. He said you shall know word by the company it keeps. I see Spanish cities such as Madrid and Barcelona and so on and so on. Mary was named to the post of CFO succeeding Joe. And likewise when I see post of and then some acronym, I'm going to conjecture that that's the post. Does this approach to supervised learning from the 90s doesn't scale to reading the web right? Can scale IE to the web, but let me first explain why the answer is no. In specific genres, the other problem is that I've replaced handcrafting clues. For the web does not scale. But it's a few hand labeled examples per target concept. He won the Turing Award this year, as you know, and he said in an interview, the most critical choice for a scientist is what problems to work on so often were we get enamored with our mechanism or our formalism. Now of course there's a challenge here when you do that, you might extract a relation phrase saying was the inventor of and you do have the problem of mapping that to Canonical relation like invented and I'll talk about. Is going to be to extract relations so again, just to bring this point home, here's a table showing traditional information extraction side by side with with open a, so the input in traditional IE is the corpus with a bunch of hand labeled data. We don't do that. And we see this in the complexity statistics. So traditional IE the complexity is ordered D the size of the corpus times are the number of relations and R can easily be a million when you're dealing with the web. A system by now it's extracted easily over a billion distinct extractions. So if we have Tim Berners Lee and the web and we have a number of intervening words, then the question is which of those denote the relation? We actually used distant supervision techniques. I won't go into that to automatically generate 180,000 training examples. Al Gore invented the Internet. So if the sentence is the cost of the war against Iraq has risen above $500, that 500 billion dollars soon, 500 trillion dollars, then above Iraq, 500 billion dollars is really not a sound extraction and our work is focused on avoiding unsound extraction. So how do you filter unsound extractions? One of the key ideas that we've used, which is the one I want to highlight, is using redundancy over a massive corpus like the web. One important caveat is when we do these counts. If an extraction X appears Kate. So here are the key ideas in text runner. The web is actually possible. Secondly, we've been able to identify a tractable subset of English. Games is an approach that Luis von Ahn advocated at CMU. If you measure the amount and the quality of knowledge that's been created, of course, Wikipedia or something like that has been far more successful, but that's people creating text, not actual machine processable knowledge, so our belief is that knowledge acquisition has to be automatic. Remember it has no domain specific, no relation specific knowledge, and we actually found that about 13% of the time. We also found that about 7% of the time text runner was extracting uninformative relations. So we know what the verbs and nouns and so on are, but then we find the longest phrase matching a simple syntactic constraint. Sometimes phrases grew out of control, so we'd get relations like is offering only modest greenhouse gas reductions at. All domains and if you look at how the richness compares to previous systems, you see the previous systems, the number of relations was in the hundreds. It's an open source project that reverb.cs.washington.edu. So have we made progress towards machine reading? So what do I mean by machine reading? We've also learned 1st order Horn clauses from the extractions and this is work that and we also carried out inference over them. And we've also figured out how to learn argument types. Is some function of the shared relations right? So if I want to know that two relations are synonymous, I can look at the number of shared argument pairs, right? P was born in Y, right? How do we map from these texts in the extractions to argument types? You know, we could use generative topic models. It's simple, it's highly scalable. It's a basis for these kinds of extractive interfaces, right? That, slice up text and put the pieces together, and I showed you two primitive interfaces like that. One is this idea of machine reading that I'm working on, but I've alluded to quite a few people in the community working as well is really a great platform for NLP and AI research. There's another motivation to what we do, which is a more pragmatic one. Well, information overload is something that we all experience, right? How is the iPad 2 and get answers like? Com and what it does is it extracts key attributes, an opinions of anything that's reviewed by Yelp.