I work for the European Commission's Joint Research Center, which is part of the European Commission and the Research Center. The first one is I want to present a truly multilingual application. The second statement is that simple means can take you a long way now. A little bit of how we actually make it work. Place names well, unlike person names, place names cannot be recognized by looking for patterns in text. And then if we add one language, adding, let's say at least the country names and the capitals and some major city to discuss it here, is not that much of an effort for native speaker. First of all, there are places which are homographic with common words. Also, there are many places homographs with person names. There's a place called Tony, another one called Blair, a third one called Coffee, another one called Non etc. So of course we do not want to each time think of. We produce suffix lists for for peoples names and geographical names. Tony Blair, Rhue and so on. So the result of our place name recognition is for each document or group of documents, a list of place names found together with the latitude, longitude, information or identifier. If we have a certain trigger words such as president or even death of exercise, that or so we have lists of first names in a number of different languages. We allow also combinations of trigger words like in 56 year old. The name variants we get them in the following way. First of all, each time we find a new name in our database, everyday we compare it to all the other names in our database using some approximate matching, which is basically a letter bigrams and letter trigrams. Your walk is a multilingual list of terms. I thought it was developed by the European Parliament, the European Commission, and many national parliaments together in order to manually index or classify and retrieve documents in their document collections. So it was really a tool for manual people for the manual classification. Now this year book categorization also is not really that trivial because your book is a conceptual thesaurus, so it's wide coverage and has only about 6000 different classes. It has terms such as construction and town planning. So even if a text is about this, you're not going to find the string construction in town planning in this document, so it's not a look up procedure. Then the number of classes, of course is rather high compared to other categorization tasks. So what we do is we built a profile based category ranking system or we should treat it as a category ranking task where during the training we tried to identify for each class list or vector of the most significant words for this class and then during the assignment we we combine a number of similarity measures to compare. The same for fishery management. The result is then for a given document here one about control system applicable to the common fisheries policies. This year gives you an idea of the performance across languages. Even not even stop words. Without knowing that actually also evaluated the work of other human indexers, people had to index this text before. It's called the Garcia Key, which is a collection of parallel texts in 21 languages. There's an average of 8.8 million words per language, and we have pairwise aligned them. That means in all language pairs even finish Greek and Finnish, Latvian and so on. There is an average of 7600 documents per language, which is not huge, but this is a good starting point probably, and the interesting thing why I mentioned here is that most of these documents have been yearbook classified manually, which means it can be used to train some yearbook assignment tool. And we then decided on a certain value for each cluster we identify. 30% of country information, 20% of names and 10% of the monolingual representation, but excluding the country score, because we have the country score already here. Future work first of all, we want to add more information facets, as I had already said before. Cross lingual document similarity which I'm presenting today is different from cross lingual information retrieval document retrieval. Areas such as such as the Internet and you will get the results back so we can apply this to an open document collection. However, our cross lingual document similarity in order to be able to link the languages with each other, we need to analyze the documents both in our search language and in the other languages, which means we cannot apply to the Internet. So what we thought is if the English clusters links to French, Spanish, Italian and others, then the French of course should not only be linked to English but also to Spanish, Italian and others. Sorry we do some story tracking. Something rather different is the automatic automatically produce bilingual lexical space for for bilingual document representation and document similarity calculation. So the idea there is similar without wanting to go into any details. So I would say the achieved results are not actually bad. So in our environment where we have 20 official EU languages, which for political practical diplomatic reasons would quite like to cover all. We use a multilingual thesaurus and classification system called Euroblock, which I will present afterwards.