[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good morning, I will probably try to present the title anyway. Well, first of all, I'm Ralf Steinberger, Petri said. I work for the European Commission's Joint Research Center, which is part of the European Commission and the Research Center. There are basically five different centers with altogether 2500 persons, of which 1800 are in Italy in North Italy where we are however, only very few of us are actually working on automatic text analysis and web technology technology applications, so most of them work in. And physics and satellite observation and chemistry and so on. Now this talk is about the cross lingual linking of either documents or groups of documents. That means if you have a document in one language and you want to find documents similar or corresponding documents in the other language, we want to ensure that by clicking you just jump automatically to these other documents and we try to avoid bilingual resources such as machine translation or bilingual dictionaries. As you will see in the minutes why.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
I want to make a two major statements today. The first one is I want to present a truly multilingual application. When you look at the commercial products, they are very nice things out there. And they are usually modeling well or multi monolingual. That means the same text extraction thing works separately for different languages, but there's not necessarily a link between the languages. Then there are the typical applications like machine translation or cross lingual retrieval, which are usually restricted to small numbers of languages, often actually two, and as we are working in the European context with 20 official European Union languages, this is not very satisfying. We want we want more. And we're trying to work on such a thing and hope to make it possible. The second statement is that simple means can take you a long way now. Probably this is a message which is lost in this surroundings, but it's a linguistics conference. It would be quite an important thing really. Machine learning people, of course. Usually they go with simple methods anyway, but you will see what I mean by that. I will talk about a little bit about what we mean by cross lingual document similarity. Motivate this work by showing our news Explorer system, which is a an automatic multilingual news analysis system which is available online, so you can also access it. Talk about what other people have done to do similar to overcome similar problems or tasks and and define cross lingual document similarity as compared to cross lingual information retrieval. I'll first give a very general overview of our approach, how we actually try to solve the problem, and then I will go into individual components to explain them. A little bit of how we actually make it work. These components include include the identification and disambiguation of locations of persons and organization names. There is a part which categorizes documents into subject domains multilingual subject domains. I will talk about how we cluster news and how we link clusters historically or logically, meaning topic tracking and then also how to link cluster these clusters across languages, which means then the cross lingual topic tracking and I'll end with some remarks on future work on things which we want to do in the next mainly months, but also probably years.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
I promised I'll. Motivates the work. So our News Explorer application is as I said, available online. For any given day, this news Explorer, it takes certain I should start differently. We have a web crawler which goes to 800 different websites in 30 languages and which gets the news from there up to every 10 minutes like to bbcorcnn.com, they just downloads them every 10 minutes. It then routes or classifieds them into subject domains, alerts people via emails or SMS messages. And so the Europe Media Monitor system, which is this gathering tool. It shows the latest news always on this application, which is called the Newsbrief, where typically the biggest news goes to the top right now you see, breaking news level is low. That means nothing big happening. But if something big happens, you can be sure that it will appear here at the top. Then on the side here you see all sorts of themes like natural disasters or man made disasters or you'll find it. Genetically modified organisms or all sorts of other subject domains. There are news about every countries of this world there. News about the European Parliament, European Commission, etc. So there's some rough classification, so I haven't actually been directly involved in this, but we receive from the people who do this gathering the news already ready made in UTF 8 encoded RSS format XML format, which is very convenient. So we then can. Analyze the news in more deep detail and this more in depth analysis is happening in the News Explorer. So what we do there is we take 24 hours of news from zero to 24. Oclock and we first of all separately by language. We cluster the news into those into clusters. That means all those which report about the same event or thing or story they get automatically regrouped. And on this page you see the big biggest groups, in that case of 1st day, July 6th, I don't know why it's Thursday. It seems not to have finished the work for today, so I guess in an hour or so you will see you can get to the Friday. So the biggest cluster on Thursday. That means until first day 24 hours. Is this cluster about the missile launch in Korea and you see there are 70 three articles there? You can then click and there are many more clusters which you can just look at. So these are the major news of the day according to many different sources. So if you click then here you'll get more information about this cluster. So one typical article, the most typical actually. So if you click here then you jump to this article. Here you see. All the other 70 two articles which belong to the same cluster. Here you see the countries, places, people and organizations mentioned in this cluster of articles. And then you see here what happened up to seven days before. That means if you want to read up what happened in the previous days, you just get there by clicking and each of them just takes you the cluster of yesterday or two days ago. And probably most importantly for today, are these little icons here which take you directly to the in this case to the German news about the same subject, which is this North Korea missile launch? So then see the places and people organize identified in the German news. So if you click on Spanish, you'll find that if you click on friendship, find that etc. So currently there are 6 to 8 languages actually display here. Six we do 8. The other one should go online soon and we hope to expand this to more languages. Now. One of the advantages also of linking is not only that you can carry out your analysis if you're a news analysis analyst, you want to know how a specific event is being reported in other by the press in other languages. So apart from the languages you can, you can go to their currently 13. 13 when we do the news analysis and only 6 where we do the cross lingual linking. But you can also see how what is the biggest news in a specific country like in the UK or in the US? Both of them are English, but you might want to look at them separately. So for news analysis analysts, this is a very useful tool. Another thing for the people whom we identify in these texts. We also have people pages there. Also country pages and the People page you find. First of all, a list of all the variants which we found in the news articles because especially Arabic or or Russian names or Chinese names there often. Spelt differently depending on the language where you find it, and even with in English you find many different alternatives. We have names for which we have more than before, which we have found more than 100 different spellings, so of course we join them all and represent them by 1 document identifier. So if you then search for this person in the news, we can give you all the articles about this person independently of the spelling, which are normal search engine, of course cannot do. We also collect the titles and phrases which occur in front of the. Of the names. So for instance about bin Laden with season al Qaeda leader terror chef leader, the al Qaeda. So this is a mix of all the languages, and in some of these languages you'll find. For instance, here you find Saudi in Italian and Portuguese, which in shape, so by looking at them you find information which you would probably not find in a single language or in English. It's president in Germany would be president or president. In so you see, whether it's a man or a woman, so you can infer quite a few things. This picture is automatically downloaded from Wikipedia, which is the only picture we can probably use without Copyright infringement. That's why for quite a few people we do not have pictures, even if they were available on Google images or so.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
What we also do is as we see these people every day. In the news we see which people. Occur occur together so we can do some sort of well network analysis, probably bit too much, But let's say we we can make some analysis of which people Co occur together, not in the same document, but in the same cluster of documents which talk about the same thing. And we weigh this because some people, normally George Bush, would be in every single of these clusters if we did it by frequency. So we did some weighing in order to focus on those people who particularly Co occur together, but not so much with other people. And then this is a visualization of this where you can play around a bit.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So you see a little bit of the motivation for us. We want to gather information about people, organizations, etc across several languages. And by going to several languages you can also find more information and we want to give analysts the possibility to access the news in the other languages.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Cross lingual document similarity which I'm presenting today is different from cross lingual information retrieval document retrieval. Where the typical cases that you submit a query in your language, it gets translated into another language. This will then be sent off to the Internet or to your intranet or whatever you're searching and will return the foreign language documents. So as the translation happens at the very beginning, you can go out to a very wide. Areas such as such as the Internet and you will get the results back so we can apply this to an open document collection. However, our cross lingual document similarity in order to be able to link the languages with each other, we need to analyze the documents both in our search language and in the other languages, which means we cannot apply to the Internet. It would because we have to 1st go there and analyze them, but it's rather for a finite document collection, which however can be rather big like our news collection. That started in 2001. I don't know how many millions articles there are, but well, now they're about 30 to 40,000 a day. So still quite a considerable collection.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
What do other people do who try to compare languages and different who try to compare documents in different languages with each other? The most common approach in the topic and topic detection and tracking three was to use machine translation. Basically, the four systems who participated, they all used machine translation to translate. I think in that case it was from Chinese to English and then they did a monolingual comparison between the English translations and the other English documents in order to just find which documents are similar. So this is by far the most common approach. Another one would be to use bilingual dictionaries. So black player used it for. It was then called Serbo Croatian, Serb Croatian to English, using bilingual dictionaries. All the words that were found which translated into English and then the list of words was again compared to English documents. That means the document similarity itself is monolingual. Something rather different is the automatic automatically produce bilingual lexical space for for bilingual document representation and document similarity calculation. So the first such system which we are aware of is by London. Littman, who use lexical semantic analysis which is trained on English and French texts. So at paragraph level I think they merge them and then they produce the lexical space which just included both languages. That means if you have an English text into French text. Which are similar, there should be placed in the same in the same part of the of this lexical space, and then you find which whether they are similar or not and very similar. This kernel Canonical correlation analysis with which blood blood for tuna and mark over Nick presented last year at our own workshop in Ministra. I don't know where you have a publication about this, so I refer to this. So the idea there is similar without wanting to go into any details. The achieved results are not actually that bad. People who use machine translation and then do this retrieval. They found that there was probably 50% drop in performance, but then cross lingual things are not that easy there you have to accept some performance. So I would say the achieved results are not actually bad. However, bilingual approaches are restricted to a few languages. So in our environment where we have 20 official EU languages, which for political practical diplomatic reasons would quite like to cover all. 420 official languages for 20 languages there. 190 language pairs 380 directions. English, French, French, English, but 190 language pairs. That means if you wanted to use machine translation of bilingual dictionaries or whatever, he would have to do an awful lot of finding resources and for the common languages, English, French, German, Spanish, Italian, you find quite a few, but once you go to Maltese and Latvian and Greek etc with other languages, of course you will not find many. So how we so in this case? Of course, you see what the attractiveness is of an Interlingua approach, or a highly multilingual approach. The more languages you have, the more complex it gets. If you work with bilingual resources and our approach to solving this problem is described in this job.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Wallpaper. So I'll give an overview of this approach now.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
What we're trying to do is, it's actually rather rather trivial, trivial really. We try to map documents onto a thesauri, nomenclatures, gazetteers or some sort of knowledge representations and then to create a text representation or signature consisting of a choice of thesaurus nodes. Let's assume that this is a gazetteer. This is the world these are the continents. These are the countries, the regions, the cities and villages. Then if you have a document or or a group of documents, some of these places will be mentioned. So some of these nodes will be activated. And the others are not, so we have some representation, a geographical representation of the contents of this document, sort of the geographical contents of this document. Now of course you can weigh these these notes. Some of them are activated more or less. And you can add to this geographical representation other representations such as medical or agricultural or or professions or electrotechnical, whatever else you actually have at hand. And actually there are quite a few multilingual resources for specific domains available. The medical domain is rather well known, but if you go under onto the RAM on server of the European Commission, you'll find quite a few different resources which exist in several languages about about professions or whatever. So the idea is to map the document not only only onto 1 to 1 field, but on various other fields so that you have a multifaceted mapping of the document. It's been clear that if you have similar representations, similar mappings of two documents, then these documents are likely to be similar, and it's possible that documents are only similar from a geographical point of view, but for instance not from the medical point of view, or vice versa. And then, if you're nomenclatures, gazetteers, knowledge structures are multilingual, then this allows you a cross lingual text comparison. That means if your gazeteer, for instance has an entry for minutes, yeah, the Italian city, but also Venice, Viennese, Venetic and so on. So that their get mapped onto the same note. the Italian, French, Spanish, etc. Then you can. Via this you can link the text. Together across languages.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The information which we currently use in the News Explorer. There are basically four components. One is location, so for each location mentioned in the text, we try to identify the latitude, longitude information, or more simply the identifier numerical identifier of a place name. We use a multilingual thesaurus and classification system called Euroblock, which I will present afterwards. We try to use some other more less language independent text features, such as normalized emerged proper name variants as I've seen you before with shown you before with Osama bin Laden. So it doesn't matter whether it's written or somehow somehow whatever. If we manage to merge these into one numerical identifier, then this allows us again to link documents from two different languages. And finally, we also have a monolingual representation of the document, just a vector space representation. Where a list of keywords and their wait where, which we also use it even if you have a Frenchman and a German text, we can still compare them because there will be some numbers, some name, some other terms which coincidentally are the same and even this helps us a little bit to link the documents. Now we have other tools which we are not yet using for the News Explorer, but we would like to. So for instance we have tools to identify dates or current expressions in various languages. Units of measurement. We have nomenclatures of products of professions of vehicles etc which are also even subclassified. So we collect quite like to add these on to the News Explorer to have a more have more facets which help us to link the documents with each other. And the cross lingual document similarity is the sum of the individual similarities. So the medical similarity, the geographic similarity, etc. Where we just have them to decide for each similarity, how big is the impact of each of these similarities. So this is the overview of the approach and basically this is the idea behind the cross lingual link.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
In the news Explorer.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
I've said that. Now let's go a little bit more into into details.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
The individual components, as I said for for the geocoding. The idea is that you have text with some references to places can be countries, cities, whatever and for these we want these. We want to identify and we want to come to a latitude, longitude information so we know exactly what it is. The advantage of this first of all, is of course that you can automatically produce Maps. So for instance, these two Maps.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Here on the right hand side of part of the news Explorer, if you go there you see up here the places of where the major news today are are placed. So where the news are placed? And actually we linked up with Google Earth. It's not installed here, so I cannot show it to you, but we integrated it so you see all the places mentioned in use in a pull down. Sorry on the side and you can just click and then it flies to the place using Google Earth where this news is happening. So you can combine it with the other features of Google Earth like you know where are the airports and things like that.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Place names well, unlike person names, place names cannot be recognized by looking for patterns in text. For peoples names is easy, you have Doctor Soandso, professor or Minister, Prime Minister or 57 year old. So and so and you know there's certain likelihood that these so and so is then a person name, whereas for Geo locations they are very weak. Lose something like in or towards you is very very rough so you do need a multilingual gazetteer. And this is of course the major work for this. For this task to put together a gazeteer which has the place names in the various languages. So we basically gathered from various different places and come up with some sort of gazeteer which covers at least the biggest places in the world. And then if we add one language, adding, let's say at least the country names and the capitals and some major city to discuss it here, is not that much of an effort for native speaker. So the place name recognition than in text is simply a look up of texts of text words in the desert. Here. If you find an uppercase word, you look in that era that's there. If it's not, it's not, replace them. If it is, then it's possibly a place name. Now this sounds rather trivial, but actually it's not really that easy.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The number of problems. First of all, there are places which are homographic with common words. There are places called and to be by and this is not only a problem of English, you'll find it in German in French everywhere. When you look at even small places you'll find places which have all sorts of funny names. Also, there are many places homographs with person names. There's a place called Tony, another one called Blair, a third one called Coffee, another one called Non etc. So of course we do not want to each time think of. Of the place names when we hear talking about Kofi Annan. There are many homographic place names that means places in different parts of the world which have the same name. We don't. We know about Paris, TX, but actually there are 15. Paris is in this world. The worst case in our database is Alexandra, Africa, of which there are 244 Victoria I think about 195 or so. So it's not trivial. And of course if you see a reference to Berlin you can simply assume that's Berlin in Germany. But you know there's a good chance that it's another Berlin. So if you want to have your language independent representation. The string Berlin is not enough. You have to disambiguate to the latitude, longitude information so you know exactly which place it is and this will help you make the.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Think. Now the gazetteers I mentioned before it is crucial and to make it multilingual, that's a challenge. And then another one if you are looking at a look up procedure then inflections of course the problem in England. In English it's not that eaten up that complicated. You have London London's and the Londoners London and Londoners. That's about it. All you can say in English whereas in other languages like here in Romanian, Estonian, Arabic finish you know very well you find many different variants. Logical variants of this place name, so if you find parties ului in a text and you have Paris in your gazetteer, you're not going to find it. That means you have to deal with inflection somehow. Now we're trying to deal with many different languages without having the morphological tools to do a proper analysis. Also would probably be slow, so we took a very quick and dirty way, which is however rather efficient, which is we. We produce suffix lists for for peoples names and geographical names. He actually show a person name, but the principle is the same for geographical names, so this is a Slovene example where you can in Slovenia confined probably Tony emblem to. Tony Blair, Rhue and so on. And once we have gathered these possible suffixes which can also be replacement rules like New York, where the K current turns into into the G&G. We pre generated all the variants which we can think of. It is not a problem if we over generate because we simply will not find. We pre generate these things, put them into a finite state automaton and then if any of these variants is found in text, then we know we're talking about Tony Blair or Paris or whatever it is.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So how do we overcome our various problems for four places which have homographic with very frequent names, we simply use Geo stop words. That means a place like and or two or B will just never ever be recognized in text. Here we sacrifice recall for precision, but it's actually not a very big sacrifice because we would just get too many wrong heads. We give priority to person names over place names. That means if we find somewhere in the text, copy and on and another reference to non then we say OK. This Anon is a coreference of coffee and which is the name. So we're not going to look it up in our database. We know this is a person. In our gazetteer of size class information, where one is the capital of a country, two is a major city and so down to the villages and we actually added the country name itself. So in case of doubt, we used the bigger one. So Berlin the capital as opposed to Berlin. Some smaller village somewhere in the US. We use the country context, so for instance, if you have a Romanian newspaper and there's a reference to the city of Roma, then we think about it twice. Whether we still assign the Italian capital Roma or whether we take the Romanian city aroma because there's the country context of Romania, which makes it much more likely the country context is also set. If we find a reference in the text to Romania, the country itself. Or to its capital. And if there is, then the country context is set and we give a slight preference too. To the cities of that country we use the kilometric distance of places. For instance, there 2 cities called breast, one in France, one in Belarus, and they're more or less the same size. Or have the same size class. So if we have a string like from Warsaw to breast, then this is going to. We will prefer breast in Belarus because it's only 200 kilometres away whereas pressed in in France is 2000 kilometers away. So we consider this now. This is rather rough. How they're really combined is described in our recent paper at the Elrich Conference. Because of course it's not that easy to.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Put them together. So the result of our place name recognition is for each document or group of documents, a list of place names found together with the latitude, longitude, information or identifier. So we have also frequency count for each for each country, so or for other things and then this frequency can of course be normalized using TF IDF forces.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Things. Now let's go to the.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Personal organization name names. Here is an example of the name of Rafik Hariri in a number of different languages. The first thing you'll probably see is that sometimes graphic is written with the case, sometimes with the see, sometimes with the Q, sometimes there's an all in between, sometimes there- sometimes there is not, and so on. So even if we identify all of these, we still have to merge them somehow, which is the non trivial task. So you see here we have these trigger words which help us to identify that roughly career is the name first first of all. And these trigger words if you want to identify new names, you need to find these trigger words.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Somewhere. So how do we recognize person names? The most simple thing and also effective is to take all the names which you already know and over think four years or so of news analysis we have gathered about 400,000 different names that excluding the name variants just individual names. Probably just under 400,000, and we're learning about 800 or 1000 knew names every day. However, have to say that 3/4 of these names they just occur once and then never, ever again, and only some names are of course in the news in the news all the time. So for each name in our database we pregenerate the morphological variants as I have told you before and we tried to look these names up using a finite state tool in text. Then for new names we have a number of different patterns which we also try to keep it as simple as possible. That means we're not using part of speech taggers, or so we identify names. If we have a certain trigger words such as president or even death of exercise, that or so we have lists of first names in a number of different languages. So we have just a string drawn XY zed, then John XY Zed is likely to be a name and then we have. We allow also combinations of trigger words like in 56 year old. Former Prime Minister and then something. This is through the state of the art actually is rather rather simple. There are much better methods in principle, but we try to keep it simple to deal with many different Lang.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Which is. Not only the names themselves need need to be identified, but also the trigger word. So if you have a word like candidate or billionaire or something in an inflected language, then you have to inflect your trigger words as well so that you actually find them and then even if you find them here you find Muqtada Al Sadr a how do you make the link to the name which we have in our which may have in our database of Moqtada Al Sadr. For which in our database you see these variants. So how do we actually manage to merge them together so that we know this is the person the same person that is being.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Talked about. The name variants we get them in the following way. First of all, each time we find a new name in our database, everyday we compare it to all the other names in our database using some approximate matching, which is basically a letter bigrams and letter trigrams. Building a vector out of these and doing a similarity, which I believe is the cosine between the name in the database and the new name. If the similarity is above 70%, then we automatically merge them. If. If not, then we just say it's a. It's a new name. But we also collect variance automatically from from Wikipedia if you go to Wikipedia, I guess you're aware for any specific name you can go to the various languages down here and then you see how this name is represented in the other languages. This is very convenient because if we find, for instance, an Arabic, the Arabic version of roughly Carriere and then we identify some name in text which is very similar to roughly career, we can do our bigram trigram. Similarity between this Arabic version and the and the new word found which of course makes it much easier to link the names. However, we have also worked on linking names. If we do not find them in the database. So for for Cyrillic, Greek, Arabic and Hindi. We tried to do the mapping of the letters into the Roman alphabet. Then we do some some simplifications and normalizations like the Russian ending of could be written OV or OWO FF, and there are many other things we allow. We could be written with two Ells or with one. So we do a number of normalization steps and then we do our similarity measure. This works relatively well, but let's say it doesn't work well enough for us to apply this automatically every day. We still want to look at the results, but this work is actually described in this Journal Paper I mentioned here.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And also how we calculate our relation person, person relationships so the result again is a list of numerical personalities found and the frequency list per name, which then allows us to have another comp.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And to compare talks, the texts with each other in different languages. Now the next tool is a tool to categorise documents into subjects demand domains. You have a money problems for person maze as you have 4 cities. Let's say we ignore the problem, we know that it exists. There are people have the same name. I'm in John Smith. I guess their masses of them. I know that even in Greece they have two politicians want to the left and one from the right who have exactly the same name for us. They get automatically merged and while nobody complaints about it will just leave it as it is, if it ever becomes problem we will probably look at the trigger words and see whether it's a homogeneous group or not. If not, we'll probably try to. You know if one is a sports person, the other politician, they should have different trigger words which are not really compatible when they're exceptions like Schwarzenegger who is an actor and governor, but in general, so we could think of ways of separating them, but currently we just ignore the problem.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So before being able to talk about how to classify into these subject classes, let me say few words about the Europe Thesaurus. Your walk is a multilingual list of terms. It exists in more or less 20 languages, so I've lost count. Maybe they're more now. It has about 6000 classes, a little bit over and it's a wide coverage thesaurus, so it's not like like medical thesaurus, just this field. But it's a little bit of everything. I thought it was developed by the European Parliament, the European Commission, and many national parliaments together in order to manually index or classify and retrieve documents in their document collections. So it was really a tool for manual people for the manual classification. And it is also used by quite a few different parliaments and other state organizations to classify the documents so it's not at all the tool that was made for computational linguists, but we still use it because we got access to documents which had been manually classified, which means we can then train our system. Your work is also hierarchically classified into up to 8 levels, but we didn't actually find that these different levels were particularly interesting.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Are useful this is an example for English descriptors or class names and their Slovene counterparts. You see that each descriptor is exactly 1 translation. That means, like in a normal dictionary or bilingual dictionary, you'll find end to end relations between words. This with your book is not a problem because they are very closely defined in the just chose one title for this one.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
For this class. Which is of course much better for making cross lingual links. So then when we have an English text we try to identify the most relevant yearbook descriptors or classes if you want they're ranked, you do the same thing for a second language, let's say Spanish. You have you identified the Spanish descriptors as they have one to one relations. You can then display them in whichever language you want, or even by the numerical identifier, and then you can compare these two documents with each other. Of course, usually we do not manage to produce exactly the same. Order of of classes on either side, but normally the code and important ones go to the top and the bad ones go to the top to the bottom and for the news Explorer we actually assign the top 100 and take the vectors of these 100 classes as input, and then of course you can calculate the similarity using cosine or whatever.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Now this year book categorization also is not really that trivial because your book is a conceptual thesaurus, so it's wide coverage and has only about 6000 different classes. So of course the classes are rather generic, so it has terms such as sport. It doesn't have football, tennis, basketball, etc. It has terms such as construction and town planning. So even if a text is about this, you're not going to find the string construction in town planning in this document, so it's not a look up procedure. It's not a term extraction, but it's a classification or travel keyword assignment. Then the number of classes, of course is rather high compared to other categorization tasks. The classes are very unevenly distributed, so some of them never ever used others one or two times, others hundreds, others, even thousands of times in our collection. The text types are rather heterogeneous. Their transcripts of human of contributions to the European spoken contributions to the European Parliament, their contracts, their legal texts, all sorts of things, and already from the input side. It's multi label. That means the documents which we receive they have between one and 30 different classes, so they belong. There there there Multilabel which doesn't make the training easier, so multi level in football.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Level output. How do we try to solve this problem? Well, we did not actually use any of the standard text categorization methods. We have experimented a little bit with SVM, but it was not a success. So what we do is we built a profile based category ranking system or we should treat it as a category ranking task where during the training we tried to identify for each class list or vector of the most significant words for this class and then during the assignment we we combine a number of similarity measures to compare. And you text with all the different profiles to see which one is closest. We have worked on this over two years and we started very simple and then we thought, you know we have to use the number of descriptors in the input text. We have to use all sorts of things we just added on and added on and each time we empirically optimized this parameter setting. First of all, we decided whether to use this parameter or not and then if we use it then what exactly? How to integrate it? So this is work we did over a long time. It's a bit messy really, but if you're really interested in the details it's described in this. Paper.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
This is the top of the profile for a class called radioactive Materials. Our classes have between 10 and 400 terms in them, so here you see it works quite well with actually really radioactive materials at the top, but there of course also names another term.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
The same for fishery management. There are many fishery related words management related words and and of course also other things. This works rather well for concrete things, but for more vague things like budget or so it's it's actually less.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Clear what this profile is. Once we have done the training, that means once we have identified all the different profiles we can take and you text represented as a frequency list of words where we ignore stop words and we have actually a few thousand stop words per language. Words which are semantically not very meaningful. So we just discard them and then we compare this document representation with all the profiles. Here I mentioned the cosine, but actually it's a combination of three different measures where we also try to see which of these. Similarity measures has what impact. How important is it?

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
The result is then for a given document here one about control system applicable to the common fisheries policies. A ranked list of descriptors. Here's the numerical ID here. It's ranked according to the cosine, but you can rank it to the other according to the other measures also, and then for each rank for the topmost descriptor. We can then decide on the precision and recall we can do it for the second, for the third, for the 4th, etc. So it's not actually that easy as we are not. Assigning a set of descriptors but a ranked list which is open ended. Basically 3 1/2 thousand. That's how many descriptors we could train for. In English. We have to decide on how to calculate how to calculate the performance, and as there's an average of 5.6, the descriptors per document in our collection, we basically make the cut off point at 6 and look at 6. What is the F measure? Which is the combination of the precision and the recall? So in this text actually you see in this specific case position is still 100% at rank rank 6, but the recall is only 60% because there were actually 10 descriptors manually assigned and the others follow further down.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
This year gives you an idea of the performance across languages. The blue things are when we tried to train it without any linguistic treatment. Even not even stop words. The interesting thing is that even a language like Finnish, which is highly inflected, is more or less in there with the other languages. And that's when we do some linguistic processing, which is really rather shallow still, which basically consists of stopwords, lemmatization, and the identification of the most important multi word terms. Then we can gain about 10 or up to 10% in performance, which is actually not.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Not very much. So the performance is maybe not great, but also there's this problem with the evaluation. But then we got the system evaluated by some professionals from two different parliaments, one from Sweden and one from Spain. Their task was when they see the text in their language, they have to decide whether the automatically assigned descriptors are good or bad and give us some feedback on this. And that way we could identify the quality, because sometimes we assigned descriptors which had not been previously assigned, but they're still good. They think they're good because it's a highly conceptual and difficult task. Without knowing that actually also evaluated the work of other human indexers, people had to index this text before. So we smuggled these other terms in there. If they were not in there already, and so they evaluated also the work of the other human professional indexers and realized that very often they do not agree with their judgments. So we judged our performance according to the agreement between these human experts and in that case the performance was not actually bad, it's about. 80% as good as people do, which is alright sounds already much better, and it's certainly good enough for the Spanish Congress of Deputies to have adopted this tool. And they have installed it in Madrid, and I've been using it for half a year now to to interactively index their documents. So it seems to me this number pretty impressive. Actually, I wouldn't even expect that Inter human agreement is that high integrant human agreement. Actually for this collection was about 78%, which is about the top people have ever found, because normally it's between 20 and 80% and 78% is already pretty good. So they agreed about. I think 78% with the others, but we then take these 78% as the top and then we compare. To that.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
So these are the input languages for which we have currently trained the system, although we're not really working on this anymore and haven't been for a long time and we can display the results in other languages. That means if you have finished text as input, we can show the Romanian descriptors as output, which is of course also quite nice as you know if you want to find out what this text is about, at least you've got some some class.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
There's some information about this text. The obvious conclusion for each document or group of documents, we have a vector of numerical subject domain classes which we can then use again as input to calculate this.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Are different between documents in different languages. In this context, it's probably worth talking mentioning a corpus which we have released recently at the Elrich Conference also, and it just described in this paper. It's called the Garcia Key, which is a collection of parallel texts in 21 languages. That means all 20 official EU languages plus Romanian. There's an average of 8.8 million words per language, and we have pairwise aligned them. That means in all language pairs even finish Greek and Finnish, Latvian and so on. There is an average of 7600 documents per language, which is not huge, but this is a good starting point probably, and the interesting thing why I mentioned here is that most of these documents have been yearbook classified manually, which means it can be used to train some yearbook assignment tool. However, in this relatively small collection there are only about 800 to 1000. Descriptors mentioned so you can use it to produce a multilingual classifier. But you can also for instance, use it to produce multilingual lexical space using LSA or CCA. But you can use it of course for many more things, and this corpus is freely available for research purposes on our website.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Now how do we do the clustering? How we're photomic account number one is including this?

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Russian how better speed up then? OK, we have our monolingual document representation, which is just according to log likelihood list of terms and their weight.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
To this monolingual representation, we add something which we call a country score. That means we see how often are is a country mentioned, or a city in this country. We add them up and we normalize it again. Log likelihood, and we add this into our monolingual representation. This is because we found that some documents, let's say about elections, for instance in different countries that were merged when we clustered, so we wanted to separate them a little bit. We wanted to add this geographical.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Information, the clustering is then. Quite obviously use the cosine in the bottom up group. Average unsupervised clustering method. So we treat we cut, we build binary tree and we cut off at a certain threshold in order to maintain only the biggest of these clusters, and this cutting off point is at an intra cluster similarity of 45 to 50%. It depends a little bit on the line.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Which on what we found was the best there? We evaluated this work, it was public.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
ZIP code in 2004. And we then decided on a certain value for each cluster we identify. We have one representation and we calculate the similarity between each part of the cluster and this representation to find out the Metro it, which is the article which is closest to the centroid and this one we choose it to select the title and and also the description so that to represent the whole document collection. So we without knowing Frank from Chester and Insights. We did what he came to was actually the best method.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Christian method. Now when combining these ingredients, what we did and it's not empirically refined. But it's more or less like this is to use 40% of your work classes. 30% of country information, 20% of names and 10% of the monolingual representation, but excluding the country score, because we have the country score already here. Now this is more less than a bit intuitive, and we have not actually done a proper evaluation on this combination. And also we haven't really tried to find out. What exactly should be the mixing of these?

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
We did some evaluation also of this a couple of years ago, but the mixing was still 4030 thirty. That means we did not yet use the person names and we then decided on a certain threshold the cross lingual partial process is actually 30%. So everything that is above 30%, we say, is an equivalent of the document in the other language.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Future work first of all, we want to add more information facets, as I had already said before. We want to empirically optimize the weighing, so decide on the Alpha and the beta which one has to be. To contribute how much we have a short term solution to this actually just to get rid of them.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Most flagrant mistakes, so this is a representation of 1 cluster. This is 1 cluster bot Israel. Today these are just the links to the previous seven days and you see that for this English class do you have in 123456 languages the corresponding clusters? But in one language you can have several. So what we thought is if the English clusters links to French, Spanish, Italian and others, then the French of course should not only be linked to English but also to Spanish, Italian and others. If it's not, then we punish it. And then we recalculate the value to throw out some of the potentially wrong links, which helps us only to improve the precision and recall is almost the same.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
We do some cross lingual. Sorry we do some story tracking. That means in the news Explorer we only show the last seven days but we have now worked on going back in time. So try to see because there's some really long stories like Iran conflict, Iraq conflict, Israel, Palestinian conflict etc. So we just put them all together and then we have for each and we did the analysis back to December 2005. So about seven months. And the longest running stories are these here. The first one about Iran. This is the first title, so from beginning of December this is the biggest title. And then this is the number of news articles that belong to this 6500 with 220 different clusters which were all linked in this story. So this is quite nice, but it's separately for each language and this is not available online yet. Hopefully in a month or two. So, but there's no cross lingual link, although we have links between the individual clusters, so we should add this somehow. And when you have, for instance, the English story about Iran and the German story about Iran, you see that the curves are rather different. So of course this raises questions. Why is there suddenly a peek here in Germany and not so in the German user, not in the English news? And this raises questions in a different aspect of looking at the news, and we would like to give to make this comparison automatic and make the cross.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Unlinking also. Then we have this timeline which is also available on News Explorer. Can just go there where you can decide for each. For each day in a specific language. You can. You see just the biggest cluster, whatever it is about. So this is the English to German and so on. When you go to a certain P code and see what is it about and in here in all four languages it's about Aryan Ariel Sharon getting ill. But then there are also peaks in individual language like here in. Which is typically German national story and of course it would be nice to highlight somehow which of them are equivalent with each other and which ones are not, just to give you a quicker access to this. Cops come from here. Jump straight to the. Thing with Thunder before.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
The conclusion, I think is rather clear the cross lingual linking of documents or clusters is possible and also with relatively simple means. Of course it could be better, but let's say you get a long way by combining rather simple means.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
With each other. Thank you very much for your patience. So we have time for a couple of questions. So I was looking at the Skype is as you found. This really interesting. So one thing I notice that you have people that their identifying. This raises they have one person in your list which was a former press secretaries brothers which is in straight. Is no longer at, but it's still classified as it. So. So if you looked at somehow giving couples fighting Temple has for this sort of extractive relations. Yes, this is not. We didn't actually classify the person as having this job, but we just accumulated since we started doing the work. All the titles. So I think if you look for German Chancellor you might still find Gordon not Angela Merkel. We have now started classifying these trigger words into groups, like whether the government or military or religious or civil. You know then sports and actors and so on so that we can actually, first of all, classify the people according to the trigger words. And then we need to take into consideration some time development. So because things change of course we haven't really done any work yet. We would quite like to but then to maintain all of this. If you don't do it for you automatically is kind of tricky and we haven't actually found a solution yet for that. Something much simpler, something just showing the last ones now. So that individual. Yeah, sure he was related to George Bush, but is no longer very interesting because he has not been mentioned in last six months, right? Yeah, that's a good idea. Is that some temporal detail, yeah. Good idea. Question. I got in this function that you have the way sound that you do. How do you define the ways the same everywhere or the 40 thirty 2010? For which which component adds how much for the cross lingual similarity calculation? As I said, it's rather intuitive. We played around a little bit, but it's mainly intuition and we know it's a weakness we should really try to find out for each individual component, how much does it contribute, and then try to optimize it somehow. Empirically, if we have some pre classified documents then we can just run various combinations and end up with the best, but we haven't done this yet and I don't know when we will have the time to actually do it. It might be different for different things for sure, like a news, I think people places are very important. If you have other document types where you do not talk about people in places so much. Actually people, places and dates would be very important. For other documents there are very few names for scientific document or will there? There are some for other documents every few names. And of course you would have to change the mix, but this is geared towards news analysis. Listen. Basically, this is a productive system. I mean it's online and everything. Where were the challenges for doing this in real time? Or at least in fast? I mean forgetting I don't know how much many use per day and so on. So which were the prices were really, really hard to do it? Well, the system had been running for quite awhile before it actually got online and all the information we have is basically in the database. If you open this up to the public in their 10s of thousands of users, it would be very difficult to query the database even when we query the database. Now is rather slow in the database. We have the information like if you want to find out all news articles mentioning a certain person and a certain country in a specific time period and then you want to see all the names. Which were also mentioned there you can do it just it's just an SQL query, but of course you cannot open this up to the public. So what our colleagues in the Web Technology Group actually did is they they asked us to pre generate output for every day. That means the person profile for instance, we just pre generate an XML file every day. This updated once once a day and then they make this information available. So by clicking you just produce the web page. There is no database involved whatsoever. And that was compromised. Of course, it's less powerful than the database, but it was a compromise we had to go to to make it accessible to the wider public. And there are quite a few users actually. OK, that's good.
