At the health care we have stocked room and. And the scope and failures. Lena is about working smarter, not harder. Look at that pace in pathway, improve them and to achieve their satisfaction among the staff members. So. The professional quality and the people who know something about. For a couple of years ago we changed the politics in the Denmark it from being many small department's in the country we went to be. We're apart of the southern Denmark region of Denmark. The first thing we look at is mapping the process. We mapping the system process and the detail where is the bottleneck? Do you use your time to correcting mistakes? Waiting for something to happen. One of the ways was the surgery who were waiting for anesthetic on the drawings, apologizing for explaining that why things don't go as planned. Our plan was. The first one in the train is Mr Smith. He's on his way to a dentist. Their lean strategy was for the patient. They want a shorter waiting time fast patient care and service. But together they could see we have to make it in a different way, so they simply make this a template for registration, Visitation and booking. So every time. An improvement of staff skills at the CT scanning their staff went to Ireland for saving the time. Yeah, so we have written a team and management get a better breath of you. Some results the waiting time from Emma E was in the 2006 before the leaner journey forwards when two hours. We have something about the patient experiment quality. We have a clinical quality database. And we are at the International Association of Ambulatory Surgery. That way we had a board of directors. Assistant if there's five directors and each directors are responsible for a certain number of department's. The 5S is a tool that helps to get a safe, structured and clean workplace and to maintain and improve it. OK, why is it famous OK in order to create safety, quality and efficient in the working processes? OK, we made an 5S and Hans Christian Andersen's children hospital and we did it becausw. This one we have the Danish quality model. This is from a operating Theatre. Can it be done quicker? Part of the process should be done at the theater on size and what can be done elsewhere in the house. And the green one was processes that could be done elsewhere and the red one was processes activities who shall be done on site in the theater. As every new thing, it began with a pilot project. It was anyway it was a lot of money.