Salanter Department of computer science. OK, OK, OK, so I will be talking today about learning how to combine distances for complex representations. First problem is that usually it's hard to represent complex data, for example. Let's assume that we have this representation of complex objects. Automatically combine different representations of complex objects and different. In particular, these are sets, and the problem is to combine different distance bill defined on sets. Different points between the two sets, and it's our previous work showed that it's in general is very difficult to define this mapping a priority. So in this world will try to somehow learn this mapping by combining different set distance measures. And OK, in particular we combine 7 distance measures and all of them are normalized. And we define two baselines methods. So the first one is, we call it K&N best, which is obtained by selecting the best set distance measure. By the cross validated tenfold cross validation, but the performance is obtained on the full data set, so in particular means that this method is optically optimistically biased in the sense that I select the best one after seeing the test data set and the third one is a is a modification of this one, but I select the best set distance, measuring the inner loop with validation. 4 /, 5 different datasets and two baseline methods. The poor performance of some method can be explained. On the basis that it's not suited for a multimodal distributions, and in particular for mask. We know that negative clause contains any examples which are not labeled as positive. The matter will be heavily penalized and. And the validation that the goal of the validation is to measure the relative importance of different set distance measures. And this particular values visualization is for the agonal matrix and we have OK three different methods. I mean, the performance of rib is very poor. And also we can reduce the size of the problem by first ranking the first top set distance measures, then sorting them out and selecting for example, the first with the highest coefficients, the two first with the highest coefficients and so on so forth. I propose a framework which allows to combine different representation of complex objects and different distances defined of the presentations. Anne. We show it in the previous work that it's not the best approach because most of the substructures will be public. Relate with the target value. Absolute value of differences of different elements and you want to combine this one so this sort of different representations of metric learning algorithm? Formulation of this combination is a straightforward one. And here I assume that I have a vector of of complex subparts of complex objects, so in particular. And we assume that on each of the. Complex the decomposition we define as a distance measure and the quadratic combination of distance distance measure is defined as following. All the metrics are based on the equivalent relations, in particular in the classification settings that I mean, straightforward. And we define it. Virginal definition of the of the distance combination algorithm is defined as the following optimization task. According to a, I use the iterative projection approach. In some sense it's easy to show that this optimization problem is convex, and so these are the implicit assumption in this method is that. And in particular, we have data with multimodal distribution. For the second method is maximally collapsing metric learning and the main idea is to collapse points in the same class to a single point, which the points will be infinitely far apart from points of other classes, and it's based on the. Bumpy tile distribution is that. So the third method is the neighborhood component analysis, it's based. The objective is to directly optimize continuous version of K and then leave one out error and it's based on the similar ideas and the previous one. But we have different different distributions you want to keep together so but at the end we do. Is large with respect to the number of training part in the in the training data set. And the the other solution is very simple one.