Joint work with Chung Chen and the power of our title is estimating unbiased share reputation via social data calibration. So if user X subscribed user YX receives news articles shared by Y. So initial motivation was for each of these topics. So we claim estimating USR is a new problem compared to the prior work on ranking users based on social responses. Then we can assign high USR to you. So for many, many users, that data is not available if the user have not shared any article on LinkedIn today. And we also know which users share which articles. Social responses are available for all users. We calibrate the first kind of data. So on the left hand. Using the feature based on user from user profile, we call it calibration by regression. So we learn regression in the end and as I said, for many sharers, this unbiased, unbiased estimate may not be available. But still we can estimate their USR in unbiased way. Today clicks and social responses from update network update stream. So for so this model, using only unbiased, unbiased data, and second one is model using only social responses. We split the data into two period and we rank users in May 2012 and we measure groundtruth USR in the next three months. Yeah, unbiased data is useful, but it's not available for Windows shares, so there are some shares perform their unbiased action is not available. We call such users as cold start case and we saw we focused on just ranking code search errors for the case model. Let me tell you how people read news articles on LinkedIn. So we assume topics are defined and data for each topic is given because user activities are fully segmented by topics. Today this is a recommendation module for all users for that topic. So key intuition in our framework is that we want to measure some responses to a user from all users for a specific topic. So we call it global response. So to conclude, we investigate it. The problem of estimating unbiased share reputation an it's about average DTR over articles when the articles are displayed to all users for a given topic. So given data is user activities about user articles for a given topic. First one is clicks for news articles from friends in social network. So this is for topic healthcare, so this will be the front page for the topic. So any user in the topic will see the same recommendation. Couldn't users to recommend would be users who share attractive articles for their subscription page? And what are the alternative articles? Alternative articles will be articles which would get high CTR when these articles are displayed to all users for the topic. Displayed to all users for that topic. This is latent quantity because we have an assumption that if the articles would be. Will be able to sit here of the articles shared by the user if the articles will be on LinkedIn today. So I mean shared articles, scale responses in the social network, and such responses are available for all users. Then all his friends, all grad students. Jacket. Second bias is response bias, so response is affected by social status.