So in fact, that gets particularly bad if you want to match really a lot of features per frame, and actually we do so five years ago in SLAM we were quite happy matching 1020 features per frame. In the meantime, we've been doing some work on thinking about the correlation structure in in visual Maps. Can we understand this correlation structure? So rather than just thinking about mutual information of each feature with the state that you're trying to find, we thought let's think about mutual information between pairs of features. So basically the child new tree is the factorizable distribution here, which most closely approximates the full distribution. And and you know, we worked out the right way to evaluate mutual information, everything and these kind of tracking problems, but it wasn't a realistic algorithm because it couldn't cope with this sort of ambiguity that we have. So in the problem that that ransack resolves where some of the matches you you try first will be wrong and you've got to workout which are the right ones in which are the wrong ones that couldn't be coped with. So now we're going to do the same kind of step by step thing, but we're going to use a mixture of. So now we can do active matching in a much more efficient way that scales much better to large. Numbers of features. 400 features in 30 milliseconds and a clam is still climbing much too high, so we made a further approximation with an algorithm called subam which actually does take us pretty much into real time performance for 400 features. Fully Bayesian robust multi hypothesis feature matching approach which you know importantly takes full benefit and advantage of the priors that you have available in most matching tasks. So if this is the set of features we're looking for it in an image, we represent what we call the search state. So if we're trying to search for 10 features in an image, feature position has two components, so we have a 20 by 20. So we've got a mixture of these Gaussians where each Gaussian has a weight. So every time we choose to make a measurement, we're choosing one of the... to searching. So basically that this tells us you know how to go about performing the Heights of these different things in the likelihood function. At the actual probabilities here that we built into this model could come from training. That's how much information this measurement I'm expecting to give me, but maybe I could also divide by kind of cost, so searching big regions is particularly bad in terms of image processing cost, so we could divide the expected mutual information by the area of the region we're expecting to search, and we call that like information efficiency. So the continuous part is all about. So basically, if you make a measurement that. That's going to squash the standard deviation of a Gaussian by a factor of two that you're gaining one bit of information. So basically, if you've got like a bar chart, a histogram, you can evaluate the entropy of that, and you can if you make a measurement that's going to change the distribution from something that's kind of flatten even to something which is peaked, then there's also a gain in information.