So in this work we look at the sampling, which as we know, plays a key role in several aspects in machine learning data mining. We typically use sampling to generate training, validation and test sets that again help us in various tasks like for accuracy estimation, model selection, hyperparameter selection meant overfitting avoidance too. To name issue. So in particularly when we're talking about classification tasks, then the stratified version of sampling is used. So this has been found to improve. Positive examples of label, Lambda one and five from label under 3. So we're talking about data that are associated with a subset of a fixed set of labels. So this is the data set with the most examples and what we notice is that. And this is becausw. To based on their second attack criterium, maintaining the number of examples perception. As far as their subsets without label examples are concerned. So we first notice here that iterative stratification produces the lowest values. All methods do well in these two insane and emotions data sets that where there is a lot of examples per label set, so they don't produce any fall without without positive examples. How can we stratify such data so the typical approach used in the literature is just to do random sampling, so in typical in experimental settings of papers received just a random cross validation, here we consider two different approaches to how to deal with this. We have a very large number of such label combinations and many of them are associated with very few examples, so that then becomes then stratification becomes impractical. Label set based certification works well when this ratio of the number of labels and over examples is small. And the rationale behind this is that if we don't examine their labels in priority, then they may be distributed in an undesired way and we cannot correct that. Why for frequent labels we have the opportunity in subsequent preparations to correct any mismatches that have been made. So after we select the label with the fewest remaining graphics for its example of this label, we select the subset of distributed. More examples for this label and in case of ties we put the example in that subset. The positive examples of this label.