How do we influence our network neighbors in response to the influences that we receive from them? You cannot interview their friendship. Other cases it's private with email, SMS, Facebook which is both public and private and phone data. Is doing out at HP and that's why I'm suggesting that we were looking at a new era of computational social science that focuses on the ways in which local interactions at the micro level among individuals generate macrosocial or population level patterns. A second area online controlled cross cultural experiments, of which I'm going to show you a couple of examples and then finally digital traces of online interactions. It's like you've entered this parallel universe that's disconnected from the world in which we live, and I don't buy that argument. There are very few constraints on interaction you can interact with almost anyone, regardless of the old barriers to interaction based on location. We can look at the spread of innovations that are happening in hotels. Those are not virtual hotels, they are places where people actually go and spend the night. But we can track the diffusion of that and on the websites of those hotels. We can study the movement of personnel on the on the boards of directors of corporations, as we're doing in a study at Cornell focus on political campaigns. It's the page content, plus metadata, which allows us to track file types, anchor text, and so on. We can look at the spread of flash. To begin with, the observation that social life is a lot more like improvisational jazz than it is a Symphony Orchestra, in that we're all making up our parts on the fly, but not just as we please. How how do we get the six degrees of separation? And how does that affect social influence? How important are strong ties versus weak ties? You meet some people, the complete strangers, and you're chatting, and it turns out that they actually knows some family member or friend, and somebody says, certainly, is a small world indeed it is. We've got 6 billion and counting, and yet the world is very small. They tend to be highly clustered. They found that just it takes a very small number of long range ties that create shortcuts across a network to give a network the connectivity of a random network while preserving most of the clustering. Rana better back in the early 70s, Anna widely cited paper called the strength of weak ties. He notes that eyes vary in their frequency of interaction in the emotional content, trust, and so on, and that these strong ties tend to form those triangles. Stall, how does it coordinate? So I'm going to talk about the challenges this poses to social science and the possibilities for doing social science in a new way. Whatever is to be defused. Is going to diffuse more on these weak ties. These long range ties rather than the strong ones because it gives you access to distant regions of the network and this idea is widely cited. This is a project at Cornell on email chain letters protesting the war in Iraq. He found that people tend to recruit their friends. And it's in fact been well documented in the years since Macadams work that the probability of recruitment increases with the number of friends who are already members. This is residential landlines in the UK an we pulled out individuals who are 1 degree removed from adopting BT voicemail which is marketed virally over the BT network. As a function of the number of friends who've already adopted an the. You have to feel it's useful and those things change with the number of prior adopters. So the focus is on on correlations, not the underlying causal mechanisms. Populations of individuals rather than the local structures of influence, and in particular the assumption that the observations are independent. It's this idea that that that the interactions among variables, that is what social life is, that's what Andrew Abbott has characterized as the general linear reality. But there is this hidden agenda which is a new way of doing social science in which we can focus on not just comparative statics, but the dynamics of interaction, how global patterns, population level patterns emerge out of local interaction. You really have to rely on machine algorithms and machine learning algorithms, and so if there is to be this new era of computational social science. We can assign agents arbitrarily to two ethnic groups. And then we can have two conditions that we that we manipulate experimentally. Or we can have influence that increases with your attraction to the person and then we can have a random start or we can shift away from randomness by imposing a small initial bias in which ethnicity affects your initial opinions.