Lucerna is professor of philosophy and Ethics of information at the University of Oxford. Complexity, new forms of complexity. What it takes for us to solve a particular problem, and of course the resource is that we're talking about normally. If I can find it, is it also easy to check vice versa or the two things just overlap completely? Well, we think that the answer is no, but nobody has had approved and there's also a nice cute $1,000,000 price on this. Suppose you have to house 400 students. To only 100 will receive places in the dormitory. You tell them what about diamonds with diamonds are valuable? So if anyone is offering you a set of dogs is not offering you something with four legs. It is plain it is not the idea of extension for the audio extension consist of parts. We make sense of reality as being made of things and properties, but this is a construction by taking things as the ultimate furniture of the universe, we commit the fallacy of misplaced concreteness. The very notion of an object at all concrete or abstract is a human contribution. Very notion of objects, or of one and many is indeed as parochial human as the parts of speech. To ask. What really is what reality is really like. However, apart from human categories is self stultifying. Then with is things like interactions. Now this is not entirely new to this audience, but it's a bit unorthodox for some philosophers. What really matter are the processes, the actions that relations, whatever constitutes those entities. So their policies here is that problems with high. Has been there forever so and but the semantic web provides a common framework that allows data to be shared shared. Communities which communities of different agents, biological and artificial, constituted by what things not know things. Communication between processes and 1 four where to tackle problems with high complexity. No problems with high coordination complexity require the combination of all agents involved, especially the coordination complexities. It doesn't matter if you stop if you start turning off the light here, it makes no difference to the environment unless everybody know makes a step. So coordination of all agents involved in solving high coordination complexity problems require communication among those agents. Well, they don't act and therefore they don't need coordination is the actions they process that need to be coordinated. If we moving in that way towards a world in which we are interacting more and more with things like. What I'm suggesting is that one of the consequences we're going to see more and more, and I will have some evidence at the end of the talk is that we're going to be challenged in terms of our freedom. The freedom of the will consist in the fact that when the Internet presents us with a candidate for acceptance or denial, the toothpaste at the supermarket. The more free my choice is, there are volumes on their sentence. If my inclination comes from natural knowledge, that is from my seeing clearly the reasons of truth and goodness point their way. An analytical techniques in law enforcement to identify potential offenders. Rate of success or has not. On the one hand, we were used to treat data patterns, syntax the quantitative, and on the other side information meaning semantics qualitative we had. Just some justice and say a few words what your position are on the ethics of this 80s. So the ethics side of all this is in the exceptionalism point that we have there. Now, of course, the conclusion should be loosely applicable to other systems as well. To adopt is slightly quantitative, not qualitative. For example, number of moves, not complex relationship between you and your wife, and is about computational systems. What it takes to generate the system is basically about the amount of resource is required to specify or generate a particular system is also known as descriptive. Complexity has many names called Margaret Rating, complexity algorithm, Entropy program, site complexity, etc. This is not known as state complexity and information processing is a measure of the total number of properties transmitted by an object and detected by an observer. An is about measuring the interactions of the elements within the system. We getting there in this case.