[0.0s - 29.0s]
It's time to introduce our speaker of today. As you know, we have three superstars this year, so. This is a superstar. And these are outsiders of our community. Return of lordy. I'm really glad they accepted to give Keynote at our conference this year. I'm sure he will show us inspiring and challenging research directions. For the semantic web community, and particularly in particular, from my perspective, that is not common in our field. Lucerna is professor of philosophy and Ethics of information at the University of Oxford. Senior researcher fellow at Oxford Internet Institute governing body fellow at Saint Cross College, Oxford. He was born in Rome and got a PhD in philosophy from the University of Warwick. He received several recognitions. I will just name view. Have Kathy dress the excelencia priced by the University Carlos, the third of Madrid. UNESCO Chair Information and computer Ethics and Gauss. Professor of the Academy of Sciences in Gottingen. Three Google Academy academic grants on protection of information and the right product privacy, online security and United responsibillity of Internet service providers. Is made research areas our philosophy of information, information and computer ethics and philosophy of technology, yes, published over 150 papers in this areas and this works has been have been translated into 12 languages. Is editor in Chief of Philosophy and Technology and this implies library and author of several books. You can see some of them there. And the title of his Soul Keys, coordination, semantics and autonomy. So please help me welcome Luciano Floridi. It is a great pleasure to be here. Not just because of the sunshine that we do not frequently enjoy back home. But also because it has been quite a steep learning curve. If you do philosophy, that's a normal thing to happen. I mean, you know you don't know anything and you do around reassuring yourself that you do not know anything. It is true that you don't know anything, so you attend the conference that is, and you realize that there's even more that you don't know. Now, if this all we've been doing this days here where utterly irrelevant, then you could go home and say, well, I don't know about anything, but who cares? Fortunately, it is something important and that matters to philosophy. So not only now I know that I don't know much, but I also know that I'm missing what I don't know. Without getting too complicated, the topic for today will be my contribution to increase the depth of our ignorance so that we realized more. How much would really need to learn and sort of explore more seriously is my little contribution to an experience that has been enlightening in many respects. I will not, not even under torture, confess all the things I've learned so far. It will be embarrassing. Things that most of you know by heart since undergraduate studies. But there are lots of intersections between what we do in a philosophy Department and what you guys are doing. Perhaps in a computer science Department. In the past it used to be mostly a one way Rd. Computer scientists trying to have a look at what philosophers do. Quickly and easily, becoming disgusted and then never ever take that world again. Residential is worth much smarter than that. They never actually make any spare, so they ignore. The signs are completely. If you think that this is just a way of enticing your. Kindness, consider that 15 years ago or more we tried to introduce a new degree in Oxford on philosophy and computer science that we designed this where excited the way on board. If you want this. Not so much. And they consider computer science a vocational subjects which we don't. We should not engage. Luckily work done by you and many other colleagues have made some of my colleagues that change their mind and I'm very happy to say that since a couple of years ago we have an undergraduate degree in Oxford in philosophy and computer science. So things are changing and moving forward in terms of more interactions between disciplines. And you will see today that that is is a welcome news. We need to talk to each other more and I shall be more precise about this in a moment. Before that, one more promise. Before that, closer to the microphone. One more Prince. As I said, some of you might have been exposed to. The wrong kind of loss fee. With an analogy, if you don't see it's a little bit like wine. Today's. Let's call it. The Speakable why things that the morning after you will remember and there is utterly delicious white wine that is basically realized through the experience of millenia and with wisdom, intelligence technicalities. So I'm afraid that if you have been exposed to the wrong kind of wine, you probably worried, say, Oh no, he's going to be one more headache. Hopefully not, but at least, if not sort of knowledge in that. This is what I'm going to present. Decent wine, at least. Be reassured that I'm trying to get there. In other words, that fully aware that some rubbish then goes around under the name of philosophy, should have never, ever seen the light. All the day and there's some fortunate because it casts the wrong kind of shadow on some of the greatest achievements in human history, especially when you are in a Greek context. Now, with that premise out of our way, and see whether we ready to drink a little bit early in the morning, some decent wine, let me introduce the topic of today.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The reasoning I'm going to develop is rather straightforward. Now, one thing that you learn by doing philosophy is that it is difficult, not because it's complicated, but because you have no constraints. Maths science experiments, logic. You know when you're wrong. Or at least you should because there's something out there telling you an not. You overstepped the formula is not quite right. The experiment doesn't quite run their way, so there are some constraints that help us to guide. Us in the design of the ideas, concepts, etc. Theories that we want to achieve. If you don't see, unfortunately, that's the last step we take. Once you start asking questions and more questions. At some point you ask questions about the very constraints. What they're doing in that box, I don't know. Now, once you leave behind all constraints and you start dealing with open questions, questions about which. If you and I disagree. We can still be fully informed. We can still be fully rational and willing to accept the other person viewpoint in yet still disagree. Should we, or should we not have a party at 7:30 tonight? Fully informed, fully rational, willing to accept an exchange of ideas. And yet I say yes, and you say no, and we need to discuss. That is the definition of an open question. Well, if you are at some point reaching the stage when you are dealing with open questions, clearly the constraints are gone. But clearly the work becomes more difficult. Because you have no idea or when you're saying something utterly silly, so that's why philosophy can easily overstepping his limits. I'm going to try not to us that this limits today, but if I do. It's a mistake. So the hope is that at least we are on the same page. You don't have to agree with me, but it will be crucial to know where we disagree if we disagree. Now with that out of the way. Hopefully everybody heard. The reason is quite straightforward. I should start by telling you a little bit about complexity. Sort of mostly this way. Then you would find sometimes among. Less technically oriented philosophers and provide very quickly as I know you know, so this is a way of getting everybody on the same page, sort of unified view. That becomes, I would like to introduce a quote unquote. New concept is not so new. Of complexity, which refers to the coordination among agents. And someone is asking where are we going with this well? Complexity, new forms of complexity. #5 is coordination. Why is that important? Because I would like to argue that the semantic web is there also, but as far as I'm concerned, mainly for dealing with problems that have a very high degree of coordination complexity. So unless I tell you what complexity is it work organizational exit is you would not even be able to disagree with me and I will conclude with a few sort of. Consequences of the idea that the semantic web is there in order to solve problems with high degree of complexity. In other words, the last bit will be. So what so? Because it's early in the morning or so are some trivial points. You will not believe how many students don't get.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So you do have set theory. First, your logic and it says, well, you know log 4 legs, but the sector dogs doesn't have four legs and everybody goes off course. Yeah, yeah, whatever. But then then you do philosophy and you make mistakes, because unfortunately that's not always true. You tell them what about diamonds with diamonds are valuable? What about set of damage? So he's not valuable surely? No, no, no think twice about the dogs. I know that's why you need a brain. So if anyone is offering you a set of dogs is not offering you something with four legs. But if anyone would be willing among the audience to offer me a set of diamonds, there will be highly valuable. And as because properties may or may not be inheritable. Whenever they qualify, the objects or the elements of the set again, you will think that a good brain, a good philosopher would know by heart. Well, not quite. This is David Hume. If you have never heard of David Hume was a shame is one of the greatest minds now in Western philosophy, and he wrote to the following. I hope is sufficiently big for those of you too far away, but if not, I read the important quotation. It is plain it is not the idea of extension for the audio extension consist of parts. Really. The idea of extension. What is in your brain costing subparts? Surely not. Surely that is a mistake. Is the docs with four legs kind of mistake?

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Now, what happens when we talk about complexity? Well, unfortunately people get confused. Sometimes conflict city, especially when it's self referencial. Just causes the problem. Are we talking about dogs or diamond? In other words, should we for example get us Incompleteness Theorem or Turing halting problem? Make sure that we can apply the concept of complexity to something that is talking about the complexity or not. You need to be careful. Having said all this, I would like to say that to assume that you cannot talk about complexity because it's complex is utterly rubbish is if I mistake to endorse that as a concept or constraint and then again just in case you thought I was inventing strawmen, here is a quotation from an alloy.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Deadly. Deep feelings for a very famous in Italy. Sort of famous in France, unknown anyone else. Quote Again for the people too distant. There are true preliminary difficulties when we want to talk about complexity. Blah blah, the second difficulty is of a semantic nature. If it were possible to define the notion of complexity in a clear way, it will clearly follow that the word complexity or not be complex. I'm so smart. No, that is first year undergraduate logic. And of course we can talk about complexity and therefore we need to be careful.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
I remind you about the dogs and the diamonds. Depends on where we sent the standing, so complexity is certainly something difficult to talk about. In this particular talk, I will discuss complexity, something that concerns a system more on this. In a moment, it's components, the elements that constitute a system, their relations among each other, and the processes in which they are involved. State spaces or state transitions. It clearly is fundamental to have a level of abstraction in mind, but I'm talking to the right audience. The rest of the talk would be just on level abstraction. If we were in a philosophy class, because somehow that doesn't seem to be obvious, but I know you know, and therefore I would not be patronizing you. Now, of course, the conclusion should be loosely applicable to other systems as well. Hopefully if we do a decent job, the level of structural.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
To adopt is slightly quantitative, not qualitative. For example, number of moves, not complex relationship between you and your wife, and is about computational systems. Of course, because that's the kind of systems we handle more easily, but hopefully with a bit of intelligence we can extend what I'm going to say to other systems as well. And here is the complexity. 101 for beginners in hopefully about 5 minutes. I know, you know, this is just because it's early in the morning and we need to revise. Most of what I'm going to say is Wikipedia label, so if you want to switch off for the next 5 minutes, that's fine.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
First of all, cool mograph. We all heard about that. What it takes to generate the system is basically about the amount of resource is required to specify or generate a particular system is also known as descriptive. Complexity has many names called Margaret Rating, complexity algorithm, Entropy program, site complexity, etc. The necessary condition there is that you need the same descriptive language. You cannot compare systems unless you have a common denominator. Otherwise, he talking one case. Greek Indiana case Chinese. But the main issue here, the Holy Grail is compression, compression, compression, shorten, shorten, shorter, so that if you have a Ba, ba, ba, ba, etc you can compress that by saying, well five times ABA, specially if it's 1000 times ABA. The compression is fantastic, but if you have randomness very hard thing to achieve as we all know, well that is not compressible and therefore you just have to deal with it. The description. Of the system, it's the program that generates the system. There is no way you can compress that, so this is one way of talking about complex.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The second one is, well, how complicated the system is. This is not known as state complexity and information processing is a measure of the total number of properties transmitted by an object and detected by an observer. Where you find here basically is the idea that you have a particular source that goes through abstraction, and at some point you lose whatever you are not particularly interested in such a collection of properties is often referred as a state, and again the main issue here is interface design.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Then there's a third kind. Remember, you can't talk about complexity is too complicated. Well now we're getting there. You have programming complexity and it's a way of talking about the dynamics of the system and all the software engineers here will go like yes, of course we heard this before. An is about measuring the interactions of the elements within the system. Normally the software. We don't have very clear metrics here and the quantifiable trend is on difficult grounds, but not slowly. We getting there in this case. The main issue is how to design and optimize the particular system. And finally, if.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
One doesn't know anything about complexity. Ann just hears. The word complexity? Well then of course refers to computational complexity. What it takes for us to solve a particular problem, and of course the resource is that we're talking about normally. Time and space. Because that easily quantifiable space, of course, is memory. Is a zoo out there? The kinds of computational complexity is expanding. Of course, we all know, and this is just a quick reminder that these are Holy Grail here. the Holy Grail is known as the P equal NP.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Problem for those of you who haven't been exposed to delete the chip, I'd be surprised, but in case this is a way of deciding whether easy to find as a solution is equal to easy to check. If I can find it, is it also easy to check vice versa or the two things just overlap completely? Well, we think that the answer is no, but nobody has had approved and there's also a nice cute $1,000,000 price on this. So if anyone is bright enough to solve it, forget about any other grant. The problem is solvable in theory doesn't mean that it's over in practice, some problems are intractable. Of course there are problems with no polynomial time solutions, they are intractable, and we have a particular thesis known as the Carbon Edmonds thesis, which says that only problem solving polynomial time can be easily computed on some computation device, but you know.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
All this in case you thought, well, this must be surely something easy to handle. Here's a quick example and we don't have much time, so I'll be rather skimpy. Suppose you have to house 400 students. That's a typical American example. We never have 400 students in Knoxville. As you wish. To only 100 will receive places in the dormitory. There's a list of pairs of incredible students Mary cannot go in with Peter, and therefore no parent should appear in the list. A simple run. What is a NP problem? Is one of those problems which is easy to check once you have the list, say at sorry wrong Peter Pan, not together, try again, but it's very, very hard to compile if you are using just brute force, just this computer. And just like go not least because it takes so much space that the number of atoms in the known universe would not be sufficient to record all the possible tentative that you have to match. And mix the students so that you can see that this is very difficult to generate, but incredibly easy to check. Now the generation and checking the problem, we don't have an answer yet, but all this shows that we can pass.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Put all together the Kolmogorov complexity, how complex it is to generate the system, the state complexity, how complex the system is in itself, the programming complexity, how complex the dynamics. Excuse me all the system is and the computational complexity how complex it is for S to solve P Now heavy map.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
All the problems there's something missing. The coordination. There's something there that we should.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
You're talking about an. I'd like to introduce it as a. Coordination complexity is something we're very well acquainted with in ordinary life. Here is an example. How many S does he said take to solve a problem. Now the joke in Oxford is how many Don's does it take to change a lamp. And Jan says change. Exactly so in this particular case we have two guys. Of course, changing the lamp and they need to coordinate efforts. If they don't, they won't be able to change their lamp. Now this is not unknown. Even Brussels knows this so that it takes 2 to.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Angle that's the same idea, is coordination complexity and I was exposed to the same idea just yesterday.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Went scuba diving and it takes 2 to scuba safely, so coordination is of the essence. Clearly we need to consider. In other words, how many systems it takes to solve a particular problem, and this is not resource is for a system to solve the problem and time in space looking about how many agents. Will it take to change the lamp? How many agents will it take? At the international level to solve the environmental problem.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Now just to have a little bit of a definition coordination complexity, I'd like to introduce as the number and kinds of interactions, degrees of mutual influence and dependency scope or their consequences within a network of systems such that. You have immediately idea that some problems have maximum degree of complexity. In other words, it takes everybody to be on board for the problem to be solved. Remember, it takes 2 to tango. Maximum degree of complexity. How many agents are involved to how many take takes to bingo? Is that easy? But unfortunately is also that difficult to achieve. These, for those of you are sort of interesting model logic, epistemic logic. There's actually a negative theorem which proves that even for two agents, if it requires a protocol of communication, well, there's two agents. They cannot ensure perfect coordination all the time. It doesn't mean that you cannot achieve coordination, but it means that you have to be open minded about the possibility of failure, which is not empirical. Failure is logical failure. In other words, at some point the two agents will. Ran out of time and would not be able to coordinate their efforts. By the time they effort needs to be in place to solve the problem again, for those of you who have already heard of this, this is known as the Byzantine problem. There are two generals on the heels. The generals have to coordinate the attack in order to win the battle. If they coordinate their attack, they win the battle. If they don't, they will lose. They have together the necessary and sufficient conditions. To solve the problem. It's provable that they will not always coordinate, they attack. Sometimes we speak quite quickly about necessary and sufficient conditions. It's important to remember that that formula is wrong unless you add jointly. Agents are individually necessary an jointly sufficient in order to solve a problem. Imagine someone will say look for this particular dish. It's necessary sufficient to have all these ingredients were surely not jointly in a particular way of cooking, because otherwise that is just a mess. And trust me, I have plenty of experience of that in England. Now try to explain to them how to cook the pasta so just necessary insufficient ingredients altogether. Not quite. We're missing the jointly properly, so the adverb is crucial. So now we have.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
New concept or complexity? Mind we have certain idea of what that complex looks like. What about the semantic web? What's the what's in it for us, saying? Well, OK, thank you for the quick tutorial, but so. He's going to take a few steps. And bear with me because a few philosophers will pop up. The few steps that we need to take, unfortunately against common sense, now you'll be in computer scientists more used to work against common sense. Then the sign says. Not for that reason. Because of course we know that the Sciences can be divided in many ways, but one of which is Sciences that describe the world and science that build the world. And if you build the world well, it doesn't have to necessarily cope with common, sensical ideas. You can also build things that go slightly against the common sense, so constructive Sciences like engineering or computer science tend to have a more open mind attitude towards what a blueprint looks like.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Therefore, our or at least the hope, is that they are more open minded about what the world looks like. Here is one of the greatest. Again minds in certainly modern slash. Contemporary philosophy. Whitehead was one of the authors of the print, keeping Mathematica together with Russell. They gave us more or less the sort of logic that we use in first year undergraduate courses. A great mathematician. Unfortunately someone from Cambridge, but it doesn't matter. It did move anyway to Harvard, so problem solved. So I'm referring to him as a Harvard professor. He writes in again. For those of you too far away. We make sense of reality as being made of things and properties, but this is a construction by taking things as the ultimate furniture of the universe, we commit the fallacy of misplaced concreteness. And he says this as if you were normal. Of course, there are things obviously. I mean it's like who is so foolish to believe that now you're holding a thing in your hands. He's not there.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
One another Harvard professor much later, again, another great logician Quine writes. The very notion of an object at all concrete or abstract is a human contribution. Science Ventures it's tentative answers in man made concepts perforce. Couch in man made language, but we can ask no better than.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Very notion of objects, or of one and many is indeed as parochial human as the parts of speech. To ask. What really is what reality is really like. However, apart from human categories is self stultifying. It is like asking how long the Nile really is. Apart from parochial matters, or miles and or meters. And he wouldn't be the first time that philosophers, not quite nor Whitehead will ask you the price of the car. But don't give me all their currency. I just want to have the price that real, the absolute price of their car so pounds. Camels, no, no, just the price. Well, there's no such thing as the price of the car I was talking to a caller yesterday. It's like being asked what is the center of their circle? And I said OK, which circle? Well, I'm not going to give you the circle as smart as you tell me. This the center. And then I check what it is, read the center or not like look surely I mean you tell me what the circle is and I tell you what the center is. This is not relativism, it's just a matter of. It takes 2 to tango. It means that the center and a circle are related to each other. It means that no prices of cars are related to currency and is not relativism. So what happens if you start thinking that things have to be dropped? What do you replace things with? But one thing that is convenient to?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Then with is things like interactions. Now this is not entirely new to this audience, but it's a bit unorthodox for some philosophers. To think that entities are nothing but a collection of relations, either zero place relations known as properties, or the binary, etc. And then this have state transitions and therefore the generate processes, and therefore that's something. Is there or is not there depending on whether you can or cannot interact with it and that's why we don't believe in ghosts? It's not because they don't have properties, but because you cannot interact with ghosts. Now that is a shift that I'm suggesting so that I can prepare the ground for what I want to argue now because we need some ideas and metaphors in mind, let me just suggest the following so.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
To be is to be interactable. In other words, you do not exist unless you are something that can interact with an be interacted with. The rest of the interactable entities. What about the following now? This is a real picture from one of those nightmares, so roundabouts I haven't quite learned to navigate as one of those, sort of. Legacies that Britain has provided humanity with. Suppose you walk into a room and you ask people. What comes first? Roads or roundabouts. And it was like rationally, I mean roads. I say yes exactly, not roundabouts. Unless you are from the City Council. I mean you know it's not placing roundabouts all over the place and then you decide. OK, now we have the roundabouts. Let's build the roads. Who built all those strains that don't fit in the stations? Now we have to expand the stations. I hope some of you get the nasty joke. You know, so unless you're from the City Council, everybody thinks that roads come first, and then when they meet, they create the roundabouts, but it's exactly what objects are. Objects, entities, you and I are roundabouts, and to think that we come first and then the relations that interactions the processes, the properties that qualify each other. Our next is exactly thinking that roundabouts 1st and then you connect them with nice links, now called roads. We all know the nodes are emerges. Out of. The network, so I believe that it should be slightly easier for me to convince you in this particular audience that now things are this particular sort of emerging nodes and roundabouts of interactions. Why does that matter? Well, because then let's go back to. I will be speaking about the semantic Web. Don't worry, let's go back to. How many things are there interacting with each other loads? This is again something you find just by Googling or Cisco etc.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Of course, this goal has all the interesting showing you that there are lots of things interacting with each other. Let me just point for those of you again too far away. Bottom line is time 2003. 2020 around 22,005 or so six. There were already more connected devices than people over here. By 2020 there will be about 7.6 seven point 8. Billion people us in about 50 billion things interacting with each other. Gadgets like this one interacting with this one. There will be something like 6 or 7.0 gadgets interacting with each other per human being, so this is what it looks.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Like us N them. If you one day you come now in 2020 an you say no, you from Mars and you start thinking I'm an anthropologist from Mars, I like to understand communication on Earth, who?

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Is doing the communication the devices? I mean well. There's also a decreasing number of so-called humans. They talk to each other, but disregard for the project, especially if you know you start looking into the next century or the next Millennium. You know we doing philosophy so we speak big numbers of time. Humans talking to each other and increasingly endangered species on this planet. Devices talking to each other. They just get more and more. I mean, this is if you make of course 100% of all the number of things talking to each other. So there are no things but nodes. Notes that emerge from interactions, the roundabouts, the roads. That's one point. This is another point which is. Coordination complexity. How many takes to change a bulb? So there are what I like to call inks. You drop the T and the age from things and all the doings that are actually in need of interaction coordination. So the question next becomes, how do you make? All this. I NGS all these things, all this. Actions and processes talk to each other and I think you start seeing where I'm going now. Back to coordination complexity. What?

[812.0s - 841.0s]
One necessary condition in order to coordinate is to communicate. If you don't talk to the other person, you are not even there yet. Whether you're scuba diving, dancing, tango, changing a bulb. So there's a plausible requirement here. Plausible meaning. Remember open questions. If you disagree, it doesn't mean you're insane. The harder the problem. The more agents you may require to solve it. But what kind of agents? Well, we've seen that human agents are kind of disappearing as you where we need to be able to talk to those other devices. So we're talking about biological as well as artificial agents. But what kind of agents are we really talking about? Things, well, not quite. Nodes know know what really matters are the links. What really matter are the processes, the actions that relations, whatever constitutes those entities. So we need in short. To be able to tackle problems with high degree of complexity by coordinating. Sets of problems. Silver by processes. This processes constitute things, so we need to coordinate these things. These things are not just biological, they also artificial. So we need to be able to talk to each other as we were across the blue and red space. So their policies here is that problems with high. Organization complexity require human machine communication and coordination, and that's why if I read what you know by heart Now the definition.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Of again, for those of you who don't recall it or are too far away. Has been there forever so and but the semantic web provides a common framework that allows data to be shared shared. An reuse across application across. Enterprise and community boundaries. Communities which communities of different agents, biological and artificial, constituted by what things not know things. Now, we said that there are no such things. There only inks. So when we talk about. Communication between processes and 1 four where to tackle problems with high complexity. Or coordination.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
So all I've argued so far is quite easy and I put it on a single page. For those of you who want to assess it and disagree global problems. And I'm not just talking about making this thing talk to this thing or my printer back home, which doesn't want to talk to my computer, but global problems and we're talking about all possible nasty problems. The environment I mentioned before is one of them, but inequality could also be one. Have high. Degrees of coordination complexity. No problems with high coordination complexity require the combination of all agents involved, especially the coordination complexities. One everybody has to be on board. It doesn't matter if you stop if you start turning off the light here, it makes no difference to the environment unless everybody know makes a step. So coordination of all agents involved in solving high coordination complexity problems require communication among those agents. The agents needed both biological and non biological problems. Too big to be left to those disappearing human agents talking to each other. The communication coordination concerns the actions. Not you and me. No, imagine 2 stones on the table. Oh, let's coordinate them. Well, they don't act and therefore they don't need coordination is the actions they process that need to be coordinated. So we need to coordinate their inks and other things. So global problems require semantic web that can coordinate all the required inks to deal with a high degree of coordination complexity, and I could have just said that 20 or 30 minutes ago. I don't think the message would have been sufficient clear, but I guess that is the first point. I wanted to make. We have another 10 minutes or so and I'd like to see the. So what suppose that a semantic web is actually there in the long run to make sure that humans? And whatever artificial agents will have out there. We'll be able to coordinate their efforts to deal with problems that require the highest degree of coordination so that we have a good chance. A decent chance remembered the general. The Byzantine generals is not certain, but we have a decent chance to tackle those problems. And suppose that. All this is done not by looking at the objects as the entities, but more intelligently looking at. What those entities are constituted by the processes. Or their relations? Well, suppose all this. Apart from a better world, what's in it for us? So what? So that's the last part of my talk and I'd like to.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Hadn't already be even more general in terms of consequences. For about half a century we have been challenged by the ability of our artifacts to outsmart as more and more in our wider and wider sort of. Context.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
What has been challenged is. Our sort of exceptionalism. Now for Millennium if not longer we consider ourselves. Exception like we are more better, different otherwise made an you know if you're religious that helps because of course you'll be made by God bless you. I've not about being made by much minor gold called nature through some kind of indecent, nasty dirty process called evolution. And I do not like to adknowledge it. Trust me. But what we have sort of been challenged. This concepts now we consider ourselves the intelligent free the conscious. And then we've been sort of, accompanied increasingly by smart things. In fact, smarter than us, stop playing chess along time ago. I mean, can't? We can't be even this. In fact, I can't beat even my iPhone these days, so it's just depressing for someone who used to play decent chess. In terms of freedom, well this things are becoming more and more autonomous, and since even philosophically speaking we have doubts about whether we are or we're not free, and there are plenty of philosophers who will tell you that we are not well to have something that is autonomous while you are being challenged in terms of whether you are free at all. Starts putting doubt in terms of OK. What's the difference here and in terms of consciousness? Well, there are plenty of things out there. Remember all those things talking to each other? Which self monitoring and when it starts drawing fine distinctions between being conscious of being able to self monitor yourself, you start seeing that maybe your or mine or anyones exceptionalism is put under a lot of pressure now. One point we have learned. In the last 60 years or so, and that's from AI, an from having more and more semantically proficient entities out there. Between smart and intelligent, don't even try to put a boundary saying they cannot do X because I know you're going to lose sooner or later. So it's rather they do X differently from the way we do X, which is a bit of a dirty trick because of course you can always say that. OK, I do things differently from my wife anyway, so you can always say that different matters. So in terms of intelligence, we've been challenged. For about 60 years what I'm suggesting to you is that if we go down the road that I've sketched before, and I think we are in fact, if anything, we're just already taken that Rd implicitly. In other words, coordination between different agents, biological, an unknown in terms of they process is to not solve problems that require a high degree of coordination. Otherwise they cannot be solved. If we moving in that way towards a world in which we are interacting more and more with things like. Moon, I don't quite know whether I was speaking to my bank assistant to alter a robot. Sometimes the difference is irrelevant. Then what about our freedom? So here's the equation. When he came to intelligence, we've been sufficiently challenged by smart technologies to know that there is on shaky grounds. Trust me, I don't believe that we have reached anything close to a. I mean any possible sense. I don't even think that we have an idea of how to get there. What I'm saying is that once you start comparing things, you are being a little bit challenge in terms of or what it means to be intelligent. If small things do better than I can. What I'm suggesting is that one of the consequences we're going to see more and more, and I will have some evidence at the end of the talk is that we're going to be challenged in terms of our freedom. And that's where you guys come into play. Hands on. The better you're going to do in terms of empowering this sort of semantic web to predict our behavior, the more we will be challenged in terms of how free was that behavior. If you. You knew already which book I liked to buy and I didn't even know or which holiday I wanted to take, and I hadn't even spoken to my wife. Now let me show you why this is the case and he's been with us for a long time. That long. Again, for those of you too far away.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
The gist is, before I read this quote, if you are rational human being. And therefore you act according to, let's say more or less choice theory axioms. Well, the more rational you are. Freely rational, the more predictable you become. If you buy that toothpaste from the supermarket, according to some clear ideas of why their toothpaste, exactly their toothpaste, only that toothpaste, it does exactly job and I will not change my mind unless they change toothpaste. Well, I know exactly which took place. Are you going to buy next time? So the more rational an free you are, paradoxically, the more predictable you become. So in the same way as we've been challenged, Smart, Intelligent, now we've been challenge in terms of OEM. Entirely free, but also entirely predictable. So there was a time when philosophy produced these things. In contrast, if you are predictable you like this stone following know Newton slow, you know free. You're just going to do exactly as your told and trusting you here. Philosophers telling you their computers that do only do what we tell them to do, they wished. The quotation full again. Those of you too far away. At least should be red with a French accent, but. The freedom of the will consist in the fact that when the Internet presents us with a candidate for acceptance or denial, the toothpaste at the supermarket. We have no sense that we are push one way or the other by any extent. Of course I can be free without being client both ways. I just look at the toothpaste and say well which way am I going to go? I like it. I do not like it or not being pushed.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Indeed, the most strongly I inclining One Direction. I like this one is a good toothpaste, good price, decent maker. The more free my choice is, there are volumes on their sentence. Just to try to grasp what they could really meant. How can I be more free if I incline more? Well, I just told you. I mean choice theory. You are more rational. You have been considering all possible alternatives an you reach the same conclusion. If the alternatives are the same. Same variables, same reasoning, same behavior. If my inclination comes from natural knowledge, that is from my seeing clearly the reasons of truth and goodness point their way. Choice theory, or if I have to save my ass basically because they can't at a time when if you didn't say what he was going to say he was in big trouble or blah blah God etc. But it didn't even quite believe it. I mean it would be really meant was like no. If you have a damn rational human beings and those are the variables, you better reach the same conclusion every time. Those are the variables. Otherwise you know being rational and your freedom consists in submitting yourself to that rational choice. That is your freedom because the most. Free bad English. And powerful entity in the universe, namely, God never changes his mind. If God has a beard he never shaves. I said let's go it has it has it and that's it. Or if you shave the shape but he's not like 01 day. I like this way like that way, so the goal doesn't change his mind and yet is completely free. Completely knowledgeable, completely powerful. So why not you? The ultimate goals product now the artifact made the ultimate engineer. So that's the view. But then you can see that. If. We've got a few more minutes and some evidence. Is some problems you have. This already is some problems have a high degree of complexity. It needs no. Of all the agents, the two to tango to be solved. If the agents in questions are not just the biological ones but also the artificial otherwise, you don't have all the agents there to solve the problem. If the coordination among all the agents is coordination not about entities, stones. On our marble tape. But actually, between their processes, they inks, not things. An if this coordination among inks in order to solve problems with high degree of complexity requires communication. Then once you start implementing the semantic Web. More more seriously down the road then you will find that not only we have been challenged in terms of our exceptionalism when it comes to smart, intelligent because those things can do better than us most of the times. But we also been challenged in terms of free, autonomous. Because our freedom starts becoming something that has highly degrees of predictability by the very artifacts we have built in order to help us to coordinate the communication that leads to the interaction for the solution of the problems with high degree of complexity. It's unfortunately sometimes our. Children the gadgets tell us a story about ourselves which we don't quite want to listen to an I want to close this with. Some evidence otherwise, you may just walk out thinking, but also philosophy that it won't happen.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Now this is since 2008, so you are well acquainted with that so called predictive policing is predictive. An analytical techniques in law enforcement to identify potential offenders. Yes, it is minority report just about technologies based on earthquake prediction and therefore is from California inevitably and they have already implemented since then. The LA Police Department is implemented in what you find. Down here we all you need to see are the colors. It doesn't matter what they are. These are different places where. The predictive policing has been implemented. Rate of success or has not. Incredibly successful accuracy twice that of its current practices. What does that mean? It means that the police just looks at. The day to day, meaning their coordination. And they can tell you where problems are going to occur and therefore anticipate problems to the extent of going there and knock the door. Or someone says, we know you are likely to commit a crime in the next six months. You're well acquainted with the target infamous sort of problem of the young lady who was. Spotted to be pregnant. Although the family wasn't quite well informed about it, so there's the world in towards which we are walking, and in fact it gets even more remarkable is that.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Philadelphia court that in you can't really read here. But in February, the seven 2013 has begun began to use computers to forecast and predict future criminal behavior. Which means this down. Roldan is damn serious. It means that the when they have to decide what kind of punishment they going to dish out. Well if you are more likely to commit their crime according to that particular prediction, or you're going to get a little bit heavier, sort of fine and punishment because we know you're going to do it again anyway. So what is this at the end of the talk we have been living with this kind of dualism.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
For a long while, I mean they can't reference was there. On the one hand, we were used to treat data patterns, syntax the quantitative, and on the other side information meaning semantics qualitative we had. Does smart and intelligent? The utterly predictable, the completely free and this gap is being closed by people like you. An I mean that I mean by. Computer scientists who are constantly bringing together the smart and intelligent. They're predictable in the free. So my conclusion is that these work for us philosophers to do, we need a serious upgrade of our philosophical views about ourselves.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
And the human project we want to develop and that is the lesson I'm taking home from this wonderful conference. Thank you so much.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Yeah, thanks Cortana, of course. This is so cool to see this. Whitehead and Uhm quoted in a lecture in a semantic conflict. After thank you anyway. Of course I wholeheartedly. We on about the fact that we need to address things in in the semantic web. US primary entities, on the other hand, you know that the current semantic web involved as well, both referring to things and most of the things that we can refer to currently. Are not around about, but are persons, organizations, places, this kind of stuff. So it's very it's good that you pointed that is soft spot of being unable to really refer easily to this. Event oriented or process oriented entities that allow you actually do. Refried relations that we could talk about for shooting all the evidence we have, for example, Wikipedia. As a large majority of entities which are not things. So it would be nice if we could refer to what you know when I the fact that I fall in love with someone, how can you refer to it? What is the repository of data that you can, by the way you have the police that tries to do that? So yeah, just comment on it. I think that I know, thank you. Thank you, I'll do that. The shift from a. The world is ambiguous, but basically from an ontology based on entities or things to an ontology based on processes. Is not easy at all. I mean, I had no intention of claiming that all it's just a matter of switching from tomorrow. You just need to buy a different kind of books. To the extent there, for example or. Former sort of our job as a logician or logic is based on set theory and set theory loves entities. I mean, while models in terms of the semantics of our syntactical proofs based on things, it's also the most intuitive way in which we build with the world. I mean, as we are the kind of. Entities whose interfaces are things oriented, that's fine. I mean, that's not. I don't think that because it is difficult that also has to be a problem. What I would like to see is certainly on. I have no lessons for computer scientists, certainly on the philosophical side, a more sustained effort to try to crack the problem. It shouldn't be that impossible for bright people to come up with a logical sort of analysis where the elements in question are processes. For example, I mean again, stepping into places where I shouldn't even there. But if you look at the shift in recent 2030 years from set theory to category theory in terms of foundations of mathematics. Well, that's exactly what you see I mean, people have started taking as primary know the translator ability. The transformability between whatever and those are the primary sort of elements which you deal so. Don't don't ask anymore questions about this. I don't know. As I said at the beginning. But if if we could have a shift in perspective in philosophy in computer science as the mathematicians have had from set theory to category theory, yes, that would be it. I see in your job description also contains the word ethics. And you didn't use the word ethics at all in your talk, and there's clearly ethical questions arising out of this. So what part of your talk so could you do your job description? Just some justice and say a few words what your position are on the ethics of this 80s. Just fair? I mean, that's you need to get your work for the miles. Yes, indeed. So the ethics side of all this is in the exceptionalism point that we have there. Because of mainly Western philosophy and therefore largely Christian philosophy, what we have on this corner of the world. It's a view of us as exceptional because we have something more. The more is defined by a variety of variables. Could be a soul, could be intelligence, could be freedom, but there's more in us than in other animals, so we are hope the Germans in the room will forgive me that Uber Animal now we're more now with sort of the Super animals in somehow when it came to evolution, evolution. Did his best. We are the ultimate sort of killing application as far as evolution is consent now. The ethics on this side is that we should be looking. I'm sorry to change the cards on the table again, both looking exactly in the opposite direction. Sometimes if you are doing statistics, the exception is the outlier is the mistake. Is the thing that shouldn't be there like so everything nicer. Now this thing a mistake. It could be a beautiful mistake. But it's still a mistake, so the ethics that I extract from today's sort of talk is that we should be looking at human exceptionalism, exactly as an exception to normality. We're not super something we are lacking, something we are a mistake. We should not be here. If you look at the rest of the universe, there is nothing else like us. So as an outlier from normality, yes you're still exceptional, but not in this sort of super cool way. But in a sense like oh wow, I'm glad that this lottery ticket came out, but it's very, very unusual. This does two things ethically speaking for you. One, it tells you what kind of exception we're talking really about. And two, it tells you about how reproducible their mistake is. Most unlikely. A mistake if it is something that exceptional, as in it should never happen, is a glitch in the system. How many times can you reproduce the glitch? Possibly never again. So when it comes back to AI, what I look at in terms of problem is. Do we have a way of reproducing this particular glitch that is us in the universe? I'm not quite sure. It doesn't mean that we are super cool, it just means that we shouldn't be here and if everything goes according to program, we will make sure that we won't be here long enough that we are, after all, no destroying the planet ourselves, etc. That's the ethics rules which are moving not unpleasant. And I'll try to be shorter, sorry. Hi yeah, thanks a lot for your very very interesting talk and it just seems to me. Personally I want to come back to Aldose point 'cause I think it's an important one. So just to give some background. So I used to. I still work in the area of describing processes and services. And it's really the people in that community. Think of ourselves as a Cinderella of the semantic web. Very beautiful but ignored by everybody. And I'm worried that your talk, although very very amazing, will not be will be ignored by this community and not taking that. So if you do.
