I'm currently a PhD student with University of Illinois and then Champagne and today I'm very glad to introduce our work. So in this talk, we expect to give a unified answer to such fundamental questions, such as how big is aware of how hard is search and how much can personalization help. So in many scenarios people have have been asking questions like how big the web is. Or less than that. Shannon entropy is essentially measuring the difficulty of encoding information or from a distribution, and it's usually used to measure the size of the search space or difficulty of the task. When we're seeing that entropy is equal to 20, this is current to 1 million items, distributed uniformly, and it's a powerful tool to sizing challenges and opportunities. It could answer questions, not only how big the web is, but also how hard is search. So how hard is search? That indicates that a user can usually find the page they want in the first 10 pages. See Google, Yahoo, Myspace and eBay. So how hard a query suggestions? We know that the query suggestion system essentially wants to guess the users next query and when we estimate the entropy we can show the difficulty of traditional suggesting with the entropy of query, which is 21 bits and when we know the IP address we can cut this entropy down to 5 bits. We introduced a new personalization major, called Personalization, with Backoff. So you may think that we can disambiguate such queries based on user's prior clicks, But what if we don't have your data? As a proof of concept, we can use classes defined by IP addresses. We can back off too. So if we use the IP address as a proof of concept, if we only know some of the IP address, does that help? And if we only know the first 2 bytes of IP address, we can still cut the entropy by half. In this chart we see that a little bit of personalization is better than too much and also better than too little. In fact, that Lambda 3 and then the two are the highest values indicates that the most value of the personalization are captured by the 1st 3 by 10. We know that traditional goal of marketing is to segment customers into equivalence classes. So segments ask different questions at different time and we result in different advertising opportunities. For example, if we look at those business queries such as Yahoo, MapQuest, Ancizan. We find that they usually have more such queries on business days rather than weekends, so the rate of intervals indicates weekends and blue inverse indicates weekdays. So to conclude this talk, we estimated the size of which is millions, not billions. And we introduced the upper bound, which is the order of population which is not feelings now and not infinite. Entropy is a great tool or great hammer to citing challenges. Park and we also introduced the personalization with Backoff, which cuts the search space or entropy in half. We show the proof of concept using user classes defined by IP addresses, and we can back off to even better geographic segmentations such as day, an hour and distant customer queries. One should carefully back off to the combinations of such variables. So, so we do have some cross validations here like. So with all the talk about the long tails, you may think that the size of web was astronomical. An people working on long tails is that if you can lower the distribution cost, you could sell this off more and successful examples include Netflix and Amazon. It will take decades to reach the population bound for search business because most people and products does not have a web page it currently we can find famous people but not our labels on the web. If we see this problem from another aspect, which is the equilibrium of supply and demand, we know that if there is a page on the web but nobody visits it, nobody sees it. Do we count those silent flops that no one buys? So we can do a simple demand side accounting. We can assume that customers have limited time and they spend one hour per day for telephone usage and they watch TV for four hours per day. They probably still have limited time, so if suppliers post as many pages as consumers can consume, the size of will be still bounded by the order of customers and population. How big is the wave at this moment? Related questions has come up in language where people ask how big English is. They essentially want to answer how many words do people know? Existing examples like a calendar. We are and there are infinitely many months and each month has a link to the next one. We end up with much less pages and this is more practical answer indeed.