[0.0s - 29.0s]
So good morning everyone. My name is Georgia May. I'm currently a PhD student with University of Illinois and then Champagne and today I'm very glad to introduce our work. Entropy of search logs. This work was done when I was interning at Microsoft Research with my mature Doctor can Church. So in this talk, we expect to give a unified answer to such fundamental questions, such as how big is aware of how hard is search and how much can personalization help.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So in many scenarios people have have been asking questions like how big the web is. There are many answers like 5 billion pages, 20 billion pages or even more than that. Or less than that. In this talk, instead of focusing on how big the web is, we actually want to argue how small the web is. So what if a small cache of millions of pages could capture much of the value of the buildings? And search engine companies place big bets on cluster in the clouds to index or to keep all the billions of pages. So this task is costly and with high risk. Can this turn into a big liability? Indeed, companies invest computer centers and clusters, which includes a large capital cost of hardware expense of power as well as heavy development of sophisticated techniques. And this effort spent on sales and marketing is much larger than production and distribution. So if someone if we imagine someone could turn this value of the billions of pages into a small cache of millions of pages and store that in a flash drive, could all this effort be wiped out?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So our answer to the question is that the size of web is meaning not Billings. Instead of investing the large computer centers with clusters, one can hash the most of the value of search into a flash drives an, especially for search business.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So before introducing the real size of the Web, this first look at the population bound of the size. So with all the talk about the long tails, you may think that the size of web was astronomical. And indeed, there are arguments that their opinions of billions of pages. An people working on long tails is that if you can lower the distribution cost, you could sell this off more and successful examples include Netflix and Amazon. However, there are limits to this process 'cause Netflix only have like 50,000 movies, not even meanings. And Evers has also millions of products instead of feelings. And what about search? Do we really have infinite number of products? If we take a comparison with the phone business, we see that the number of personal home pages is much smaller than the size of phone book which is funded by the population. And if we look at the number of business home pages is also smaller than the size of Yellow Pages, which is also bounded by the population. So until the search market saturates, the most value are in millions of pages, not being.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Map like telephone market which is already saturated. It will take decades to reach the population bound for search business because most people and products does not have a web page it currently we can find famous people but not our labels on the web. And there aren't so many famous people. So for the foreseeable future, the most value still meanings, not beings.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
If we see this problem from another aspect, which is the equilibrium of supply and demand, we know that if there is a page on the web but nobody visits it, nobody sees it. Did that make a sound? So if when we estimate how big the web is, should we count those silent pages? Should we count those pages that only one person or no person several person visits? The same question has come up with estimating of the products. Do we count those silent flops that no one buys?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So we can do a simple demand side accounting. We can assume that customers have limited time and they spend one hour per day for telephone usage and they watch TV for four hours per day. So how much time can you spend on the web? They probably still have limited time, so if suppliers post as many pages as consumers can consume, the size of will be still bounded by the order of customers and population. So it takes decades to reach the population bound, which is business. But what are what? Where are we now?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
How big is the wave at this moment? Related questions has come up in language where people ask how big English is. There are many answers from different aspects like dictionary, marketing, education, psychologist antics, an increase tics. They essentially want to answer how many words do people know? And they define concepts like what is the word and what is a person. What do you mean by loading award? So there are basically very two very different answers from the computational aspect where Chomsky argues that language is infinite becauses there are infinite number of combinations of words and letters. But channel would disagree with that. He says that the size of language is essentially 1.25 base per character, which means we can encode character into just one and less than half bits.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So similar is the web. If we take Chomsky's argument, one could easily conclude that the web is just infinite. Indeed, you can easily write malicious spider trap where like this, like this dynamic page where X equal to 0 links to execute one links to X = 2 until Infinity and this will give us infinite number of pages and this is not just the academic exercise 'cause you can find many real examples. Existing examples like a calendar. We are and there are infinitely many months and each month has a link to the next one.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So if we use Chomsky's argument, we end up with infinite number of pages on the web, and it's impossible to index all of these even if you want to index. Most of this is still costly. What if we use shells, entropies, channels argument? We end up with much less pages and this is more practical answer indeed. We estimated the entropy of the three variables query URL an IP address from the MSN search log of one month and numbers surprisingly small. So it only takes 21 bits to encode the queries, 22 bits to encode the UI, or an IP, and these numbers are millions, not buildings. When we think that the one once data is not big enough and we re estimate those numbers with the much larger data set with 18 months data and you can see that the entropy does not grow much and they are still bounded in 2223. So this is encouraging 'cause this is saying that we can encode the information we're used to be stored in clusters. Includes into the size of a desktop or even a flash drive. So that indicates that we can turn the big bits, turn the high cost of computer centers into the reduced cost of working in the park.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
An I've introduced channels entropy. Shannon entropy is essentially measuring the difficulty of encoding information or from a distribution, and it's usually used to measure the size of the search space or difficulty of the task. When we're seeing that entropy is equal to 20, this is current to 1 million items, distributed uniformly, and it's a powerful tool to sizing challenges and opportunities. It could answer questions, not only how big the web is, but also how hard is search. And how much does personalization help?

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So how hard is search? How hard is the task that we are all doing right now? We estimate the entropy of the three variables one at a time to anytime and three at a time from the MSN search log. So these numbers corresponds to the entropy of the three variables, two at a time. We can measure the search space or the difficulty of traditional search by the conditional entropy of the URL given the query, which is 2.8 bits. That indicates that a user can usually find the page they want in the first 10 pages. And how about personalized search? If we use the IP address to identify a user, we can measure the search space of personalized search as the conditional entropy of URL given query an IP address and that is essentially 1.2 bits. So when we compare these two numbers, we see that personalization cut the search space or cut the the difficulty of searching half. And that is huge opportunity.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Indeed, we can use entropy to measure the difficulty of queries. We can find the easiest queries with the lowest entropy. See Google, Yahoo, Myspace and eBay. Although they have many such queries, the answers are sort of unique. And we can also find hardest queries with high entropy. For example dictionary yellowpages movies and sort of what is maybe. It's sort of hard to find answers for these questions, and those queries are sort of consumer queries.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So how hard a query suggestions? We know that the query suggestion system essentially wants to guess the users next query and when we estimate the entropy we can show the difficulty of traditional suggesting with the entropy of query, which is 21 bits and when we know the IP address we can cut this entropy down to 5 bits. So once again, personalization cuts the search space of difficulty in half and twice this time. Again, this is huge opportunity.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
But what about we? We don't have enough data? What if we don't have your data in our history? We introduced a new personalization major, called Personalization, with Backoff. So the basic idea is that when we have ambiguous queries such as MSG, people may use MSG to access Madison Square Garden, which is the Sports Center and also food additive. So you may think that we can disambiguate such queries based on user's prior clicks, But what if we don't have your data? We could back off 2 classes of users like you. As a proof of concept, we can use classes defined by IP addresses. So essentially, if you imagine that people in New York could use MSG to access Sports Center and people in other places would use MSG to access the food additive an you know that the first several bytes of IP addresses usually corresponding to the geographic location. Of course we can do better by back of two classes based on market segmentation or demographics or collaborative filtering. We can back off too. Other users who click like you.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So if we use the IP address as a proof of concept, if we only know some of the IP address, does that help? From this table we see that if we know nothing about IP address, the search difficulty is 2.8. And if we know the complete IP address then we can cut it to 1.2. And if we only know the first 2 bytes of IP address, we can still cut the entropy by half. So that means knowing some of the IP address is better than all of them.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
An formally, we introduced the back of model to back off the probability of URL game IP address, an query into the linear combination of probability of URL given the query and the first several bytes of IP address. So the so the parameters Lambda four indicates the wait for the first 4 bytes or the complete IP address, then the three for the first 3 bytes and #2 for the first 2 bytes of Azure IP address. So on and so forth. And these parameters can be estimated with the EM algorithm and cross validation with different search log data. An from this table. In this chart we see that a little bit of personalization is better than too much and also better than too little. In fact, that Lambda 3 and then the two are the highest values indicates that the most value of the personalization are captured by the 1st 3 by 10. First 2 bytes of IP address. And then the four means that we use the complete IP address where this and we use little IP address. So clearly, if we use the complete IP address, we may fall into the problem of the sparse data, and if we use this end we may miss the opportunity of personalization.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So we already shown that using IP address is effective to personalization with Bank of can we do better to back off to market segmentations? We know that traditional goal of marketing is to segment customers into equivalence classes. We can do the same thing for search business to separate queries into business queries and consumer queries, for example. So segments ask different questions at different time and we result in different advertising opportunities. We can back off with the variables of query URL an IP address as well as demographic variables and we can show examples to back up with the time of day and days of week. So.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
For example, if we look at those business queries such as Yahoo, MapQuest, Ancizan. We find that they usually have more such queries on business days rather than weekends, so the rate of intervals indicates weekends and blue inverse indicates weekdays. Whereas if we look at those consumer queries, the patterns different. The difference between weekdays and weekends are not that much and in some occasions for example for movie we even have more clicks or more queries on weekends. So that shows that separate queries into business query. An consumer query makes sense. And.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
We can also plot the number of clicks and the entropy of the personal search. Across the timeline, we see that on week days there are usually more clicks. However, these questions are much easier to answer, so this is because people usually ask business queries. Business questions at this distance time, which is mostly navigational queries. But on weekends people may ask consumer queries which are much harder to answer.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So this slide shows that we can also partition the queries with the days and nights where there are more queries than more diversified queries and daytime and also less clicks and less unified queries on more unified.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Yurizan lights and if we plot the difficulty or the entropy of personalized search across the timeline, we see that the hardest questions come in at television time, especially 9:00 PM, and the easiest queries happens at early morning and once again the queries at weekends much harder than those ads.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
A weakness. So to conclude this talk, we estimated the size of which is millions, not billions. And we introduced the upper bound, which is the order of population which is not feelings now and not infinite. We show that using Shannon entropy is much more practical major than using Chomsky's argument to measure the sizing opportunities. We can answer questions like how hard in search, how hard a query suggestions, and how much can personalization help. And in all these estimates. Entropy is a great tool or great hammer to citing challenges. Which means that we can cut off the cards. Two of clustering clouds into the reduced cost of work in the.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Park and we also introduced the personalization with Backoff, which cuts the search space or entropy in half. We show the proof of concept using user classes defined by IP addresses, and we can back off to even better geographic segmentations such as day, an hour and distant customer queries. And in the future work, we can model the combinations of all those variables to get the optimal performance of personalization. One should carefully back off to the combinations of such variables. We can also group users with the similarity how they clicked, so this will naturally lead to collaborative search.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And that's all. Thank you and then to take any of the business. So I really like the questions you're asking in there. One comment on pressure, so the comment was, I'm not sure that I believe this one page per person right? Because of dynamic pages not sure. Thought about blogs and the fact that it Amazon you have reviews and comments and so on. So probably there's some element there that needs to be factored in. But my question was to what extent did you tried to take the entropy model and assess empirically whether in fact the conclusions you are drawing from the model are accurate? For example, if you said rather quickly that. You should be able to find the search result within the top two. The answer to the query within the top 2 results or something like that. Top 10 Top 10 results yes. Right, that's right. People frequently reformulate their query, indicating that they're not finding what they want in the top small number of results. I'm just wondering if you thought about empirically validated the entropy model, so the question is that how we can evaluate the entropy model empirically. And I agree with your arguments, because the query logs sometimes are biased, so if those results does not show in the. Return page is just no way that it will appear in the search log. That's one problem an. So I say that you can usually find your results in the top 10 pages. It's just imagination or a simple statement is not saying that you can always find that in first 10 pages because the entropy of 2.8 corresponds to. Distribution of items less than 10. So let's just. Justification of them. Right, but I was trying to ask whether you actually believe that the entropy model that you described accords with reality, and if you do, what's the basis for the thing that you have to try to empirically validated. Yeah, so based on the query logs we see that it's in matches pretty well. We estimate the entropy from one month log an 18 month log and you can see that entropy does not grow much. If you think that this is totally this match, the entropy should grow much. Much significantly becausw 18 months log will introduce much more queries and much more URLs if they are distributed uniformly or distribute is not as scaly, the entropy should grow up high, but in this case they only grow up like this. They want it. Three more. Maybe the first time? I thought you made this change. Music quality is very complex. It seems that. You're making some very strong assumptions. Involvement in the other, but you haven't mentioned at all. I was curious if you know my inquisitive happens, you have so that you can equate it to people. Give the query performance will result in so I'm not sure whether I catch your cursing is your cursing about the entropy of click versus the entropy of query? Oh what assumption do you need? Equate entropy source? Distribution quality the difficulty of the query exception. The. So the assumptions about the distribution, so assume that there are 10 URLs. If it's uniform distributed. If people on click on those URLs equally likely. So the entropy should be 3.7 something. But if people tend to click on the 1st URL, then the entropy should be 0. So. Certainly it's perfect, just a question. You have an assumption that the results are perfect, yes indeed, but in fact, because of the bias in the search log, it may or may not be the case. It will be good if we compare the search logs from different search engine companies and to find, but you know. Point we would be like for McQuaid where she's given odds are supposedly put including older people, things like that, right? The progress made by human rights. Well, it doesn't. Responsibility to, you know. Would that be something? Yeah, so this is still due to the reality, so we have a concept that if we have perfect search log, if there's no bias then we can estimate the actual numbers. How hard the searches, but we end up have a sort of biased search log. So well, if we, if in the future we can. Prove the bias from the search box. Then we can estimate more accurate models, but I believe that that number shouldn't be much larger than these numbers. This is sort of a follow up. I think all these questions with the same thing I mean, so you correctly say that there is bias in your. We use it even looks awfully possible to do this kind of study without bias, I mean, and you are measuring the entropy, not of the searcher or off the web, but always particular search search engine. That's exactly. Your question about the the tree falls in the forest and nobody hears it. Inherently approaches is has to be biased by definition, because you're losing when people can't click on things that searches. Never use one example. So if you believe that search engine logs are biased, what about tagging logs? People can take almost every home page, every pages they visited, and use any text. So what if we can estimate the entropy from logs like delicious? So probably that will make more sense, right? So in that sense, we can still do a political estimates which is less biased at least. Another question. Making an argument. It is all stationary, so how does the compression argument hold interest? Excuse me, I cannot hear well. Distribution of. Changing overtime, how does the compression argument to change if you incorporate the dynamic? That's a good person, so we actually made some cross validation with history data on trying to estimate the models from history data and predict the data in the future. And I do have.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The slide let me see. So, so we do have some cross validations here like. If we know the every bite, then we should use complete personalization, but if we only know the two bites weaken the presentation with backup is still better than complete presentation and this is made by cross validation with the history and future data is not like training testing in training.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
And also we can show that weekends are harder to predict than weekdays off. To predict with this is much better than if we use weekends to pick with this and that are all based on the dynamic change of the data.
