OK, So what is our results? So indeed we have a more refined analysis showing that for almost smooth loss, like the hinge loss which is smooth everywhere except a single point. You can have a better convergence rate N plus one over Lambda epsilon, and now epsilon is to the power of 1 / 1 plus new, where new is a data dependent quantity. So this is our bound. This is our bound. Is dual coordinate ascent where you perform cyclically. So first for smooth loss the work of calling sinntal give similar bound 2 hours, but for more complicated algorithm it is an exponentiated gradient. Frank Wolfe algorithm for the dual of structured prediction problems, and it turns out quite surprisingly it is a different algorithm. Dual cord into sent and the bounded they derive is also on the duality gap, not on the dual suboptimality. So it's a good bound and. OK, some extensions so we have slightly better rates for stochastic dual coordinate ascent. Basically the two improvement is that you can have any regularizer so you can use it for L1 problems. So far the theoretical guarantees were unsatisfactory and our analysis shows that it is an excellent choice in the in many cases. So if the primal problem is this problem from before the dual problem is to maximize over a vector N dimensional vector Alpha, well where we have an average of conjugate dual functions. OK, so we can fix all the elements of all the elements Alpha to their current values and then optimize with respect to a single coordinate of the dual. And this is dual coordinate ascent. OK, so at each iteration we fix all the variables and then optimize with respect to one variable, stochastic dual core dissent is exactly the same, just the variables that we choose to optimize is chosen at random, uniformly random. OK, so stochastic dual coordinate ascent is very similar to stochastic gradient descent in stochastic gradient descent. And it has several nice advantages, such as stopping return and no need to tune any. So this is in practice, but in terms of theory, the current analysis is unsatisfactory. So the question we studied, how many iterations are required to have peace of WT smaller than the optimal value of the primal plus epsilon? So for SGD we know that one over Lambda epsilon iterations are enough. And actually when you look at the proof the parameter new can be arbitrarily small. SEC analysis does not hold for loss functions like logistic regression cause the dual of logistic regression is not smooth. Take data which is linearly separable using a vector W 0. And P of W stories at most epsilon.