One of my then mentors John Doyle gave me a first draft of his book to proofread, and the first sentence of this book read as follows. Over what I can define what I know how to define our data and the task so you can devise many tasks I will choose as prototype the simplest possible one if you prefer the most general you go for survival. If you pick the simplest, then just a binary decision is that an element in an animal in this room, yes or no, or is that animal going to be my dinner, or vice versa? Let's say on the plane translation rotation together they formed asymmetric group. If you remove reflection, there's the rigid motion scaling, which together form Citigroup affine projective group. So there's a big jump here. Determine a discrete representation that sufficient for the purpose of creating a copy of the original signal. To indicate that if you're interested in communications and you want to create a copy of the source signal at the destination, then notions of entropy and coding length and so forth are meaningful. But if you want to use the data not to transmit or store, but to make decision or controls, then white noise is not very informative. So Gibson wrote way back, but then my notion is that information consists of invariants underlying change, change of what change of illumination or viewpoint occlusions, and so on. You can make it as fancy as you want. OK, now the problem with this is that what is invariant to contrast, which is the geometry of airlines, is not invariant viewpoint because you take your image, you change the viewpoint a little bit and all the level curves get warped and deformed. Vice versa, what is inviting to viewpoint, which is the intensity of the image in a normalized domain, is not invariant to contrast, because contrast consists of the values wherever it wants. It's something which is supported on a 0 measure subset of the image domain, so it's really thin object. For changes of viewpoint and contrast. So this is a slide on that the construction is fairly intuitive actually, because if you think of the image as surface. But there is a big problem. There's nothing I can do to the image that will give me back the face end of the story. Simple as that. To complete the story I will need some notation, so bear with me a little bit and I will use vision. Many of you have never seen a radio. I can change the nuisance I can change. It's not very interesting what you want to is the maximal invariant, the one that's function of all the other invariants. OK. You can always build sufficient statistic. Representation is a statistic, so it's a function of the images. So. But we can get to a representation that has the power of generating all possible images that the scene generates. And calls that actionable information. The minimal sufficient statistic of representation and take. How does it acquire information? But data compression is not data analysis. In channel digital paper, he famously wrote that the semantic aspect, the semantic aspect of information, is irrelevant. So why should we then do edge detection, feature selection, segmentation, and all the low level visual processing operations that were used to? A losing proposition. Unlike in communications where there is a natural discretization of the data, which is the discretization of the source in vision, there is no natural discretization of your sensory signals.