Functional properties of relaxor polymers. We were, of course, interested whether we could influence or even tailor them via some structural modifications, and 1st we compared the response of as polymerized. However, by using low irradiation doses previously only properties of pure ferroelectric compound were reported, or properties of the system irradiated with high doses, which is completely transformed into relaxer and the motivation for our work was the finding that, in systems irradiated with low doses, the Electro. Dielectric and electrical orick properties of this relax or polymers without undesirable effects of irradiation. In the first composite dielectric, constant increases for one order of magnitude. In the second one, even for two orders of magnitude, and consequently this still large strain can be induced under much reduced electric field. Of corporate policy and are dispersed in the metrics. In the second composite, even conductive filler is used. At the interface of two materials, and then in the external electric field, all kinetic field acts like a large electric dipole. Here is the result from this composite where we used where we used conductive polyaniline particles. Application of the direct pizza electric effect, induction of charge with stress is PSL, electric lighter. However, measurements of PSO electric effect in thin films, so direct detection of this tiny displacements in materials having thickness is off. Why am I calling this right be measurement beam? Energy storage applications by incorporating graphene oxide into different cellulose mattress is so matrices made of native cellulose nanofibers. Of composites with pure graphene oxide powder within the cellulose matrices and these composites were then exposed to UV light and the structural analysis revealed UV induced reduction of graphene oxide within the composite, which consequently increases the dielectric response of the whole system. Another problem in the field of materials for electromechanical applications is the fact that due to the mechanical clamping of the film onto the substrate, the piezo electric effect in 10 films is significantly lower than in their bulk counterparts. Physical and chemical labs for years resulted in this simple and robust method. Normally. Anyhow, the strain response is independent on the electrode size. And I particularly like the results of this finite element method simulation performed by underage Bradesco and this this simulation nicely reveals the release of stresses. In porous films, the release of stresses that are present in dense film in the film and in the substrate, and this release then also causes the increase of the induced Electro mechanical strength. Both temperature and frequency range, and we compared it to the response of this commercially used materials. We can see the dielectric constant indeed is higher, while dielectric loss is well, at least around room temperature remain. It is stable to a relatively high temperature, and particularly it survives extremely large. Electric external electric fields. Dielectric losses are much more important values of the dielectric constant, so I guess 90% of my talk were materials with enhanced dielectric response and they are all interesting only. OK, so after a short introduction on fundamental properties of ferroelectrics and relaxers, particularly on ferroelectric in the relaxer polymers, I will present the impact of structural modifications on their electrically induced response. Otherwise giant response, and that's why we developed some composites where due to the Maxwell Wagner interface and polarization the dielectric constant strongly increases and by using the same approach we have developed also some inorganic so high dielectric constant. The piezo electric effect in films is itself is significantly lower than in their bulk counterparts. And after a melt solidification within within five bursts of this paralytic structure, crystalline lamelas appear within the amorphous region. PDF spontaneously crystallizes into the nonpolar trans gosh chain confirmation, and only by mechanical extension we can. This copolymer spontaneously crystallizes into the polar structure has higher crystallinity ratio and higher values of the remanent polarization.