So this is the tutorial on learning with dependencies between several response variables from hierarchical Bayesian multitask learning to structural output prediction and relational learning. The core author on this tutorial is KU. Multiple outputs do not affect each other's least squares estimates. There's a little bit on protection methods, but not much, and so it seems that also statistics didn't really consider this in great detail. Situation is different, so after training we want to maintain the dependencies between the outputs and they're often explicitly models. And statistical strength. Typically, for a given object, several output variables or labels are measured. So here in decision support, for example, for a given patient, many procedures are possible. So there are definitely clusters in this data and this should be exploited. On the semantic web, for a given text, many annotations are possible. So especially cases, structured output prediction where there is a known dependency structure between the outputs, and this simplifies the model. Because if you want to predict an M dimensional distribution and you don't have any in dependencies or simplification, this is just an impossible problem and in structured output prediction we assume that there are some dependencies, for example, that this is a linear chain that the I&J&J plus one output are coupled in some sense. Applicable when the structural dependencies between the outputs are. This is another example social network analysis. A typical task is the classification of actors based on the attributes of actors. Here are the target functions. So one network is one data point and here learning also relies on parameter sharing. Oh, this is something I think quite current natural language parsing. Then there are random effect models, random parameter vectors, mixed models, mixed effect models, nested models, multi level models, hierarchical linear models, generalized mixed models for these are from the more frequentist statistical side. Which motivated our work in this direction. Currently in the last years. Complex sampling everywhere. We started with the problem setting and simple solutions. OK, the last part then will be on link prediction relationship prediction and difference here is that why I J describes the link or relationship between rowenta TI and column entity J. So both rows and columns now sort of have object properties and different situations. So for example. So if there's a key message, simple key message prediction accuracy improved in models with several response variables. But then in learning some more parameters, estimates benefit from the multiple outputs. For example, patients length of stay or patients outcome but in different situations are different hospitals. So data collected is collected from different situations and it decides or tasks and the goal is to learn objective model. If Jay so Jay is the task of X1 to M and the question is can data from other situations have to improve to improve the prediction of both one of the members of this set but also for a new new saturation new task. So FJ of X is linear weighted sum of weights in this weights might depend on the task and some future functions fi L of X. So the first simple solution is to have one global model, so just ignore that there are different situations, different hospitals, different plans, just put all data in one model, pull all data in one model and train one global model. So they are fruits. Next simple solution is that each model is at each situation. So only one output dimensional data from output dimension contribute to a parameter estimates. So this is the classic generic supervised learning task. Consist of the input. So if you're not page and then this is sort of like a weight decay thing and let's assume we have for a new situation. We have observed these three data points and and all these things here. And there here densely distributed in the input space. So in a situation where hierarchical Bayes is applicable, this is going on. And if you look at the parameters for the colored models, we might get this, you know. I can say here's no more covariance matrix or it's the identity covariance matrix, and these are now my new basis functions. So I've known are Gaussian parameters with identity covariance matrixes with learned basis functions formed as linear combination of the original basis function. There's a new generic learning problem where the only difference really is that the Y is not one dimensional, but at M dimensional. So again, Rozar data points columns are now the input vector X and the output vector Y. I mentioned networks the beginning so this looks almost like a neural network. The second layer is the prediction of the multiple outputs. This is 1 definition of the inverse Wishart, so we don't have to look at too closely now, but there are. So the key benefit in her equation modeling for linear systems is a common basis. Functions are learned that are used for all outputs. And now we assume regression with little noise. So to learn basic functions are simply given by the output data. The disadvantage of course are different situations do not benefit from one another, because obviously every every every column is then independent of each other. But still we can make predictions based on the estimated K. So if you assume that these are the basis functions instead of the size we just arrived, we get this as a covariance kernel estimate and we can do predictions with this one as well. So here it's a little more interesting because the singular values singular vectors are calculated based on all data and statistical strength, shared singular value composition. Application then then you can imply implement this prior knowledge by defining the basis functions, whereas if you do the SVD stuff or the empirical stuff, this is not really so easily possible. Other inference is off performed via Gibbs sampling or other appropriate methods such as variational learning. But if you are interested in this more deeply, so three phases in the modeling with no data yet available for a new situation, the model essentially will follow the mean function. The best thing it can do in the second phase with small data available for new situation model might follow more closely a previous model that fits those data well, so it will sort of out of the past models. Then all output functions are independent. But if the priors learned as I presented, then all measurements influence all predictions by influencing each other via the prior distribution. OK, so this was a Bayesian treatment. Then it's called regression model with random coefficients and we get the connection to the hierarchical Bayesian model. Yeah, I'm not sure if it was clear, but it's you can really translate this week very quickly into the Bayesian framework and the statement maybe to make us mixed models is beige and as a frequentist will ever get 'cause this is what they hate. Sort of random parameters. But not independently given and transformation respectively given the prior distribution that is found using all data. By forming these transformations. The input is mapped to a lower dimensional space that was found found using all the data. The difficult acoustic. This sort of technically equivalent to a Gaussian process, so-called Gaussian process, where we define the covariance between two data points. Cool area which is done by this formula which I've shown already and the main function is done by this formula which we have also seen already. So we learn sort of a K, which is a cool, dense kernel and the mean and 1st we do it only at a finite number of points. So we define typically the training data and maybe some test points, so it's more like transduction. From industry data has been collected and models have been trained for implants. We want to generalize to plant N + 1 where either no or little data is available. Data for length of stay prediction of outcome prediction has been collected for patients in hospitals. So here is a little bit of new situation, but let's first look at the data matrix properties of patient one, patient, patient, N. And here length of stay prediction for hospital Wanan for hospital M. And yeah, if you think of it, you might quickly notice something. Naturally a given patient has typically been only in one hospital. So technically, for each input, only one output might be available, so it's more this situation.