The main motivation for our research was actually the need to develop complex event processing system that could detect and maybe also predict complex events in traffic so. But again, because of the small data they they have the same percentage of correctly classified instances. We found out some rules that were very simple because of small datasets, but they make sense if we would have more data sources, so more attributes we would have more complex rules. And what is also important that this work and leads to automatic rule generation, which can be very useful when we want to extract lower rules for large number of sensors. Stadium storage in new Byana and there was a big concert on that Sunday evening, so this research is actually we wanted to figure out how big social events affect some traffic nearby and how to extract some rules to detect complex events in traffic. To be more precise, how we extracted complex event from this data and I will show what kind of database we have gathered so that we can perform data mining. The second data type is the social events. We have collected 50 major social events for the. For example, morning rush hour is not considered as a complex event in our work, but the anomalies are. And if these two data are a lot different, well more different than some certain threshold then we detect anomalies. So we define the complex event in parking is this. Downward trend actually. So this is actually the data set that we extracted. We actually. Attributes event demand attributes has four possible values, one being least important and for being very important. Before the complex, before the social events, complex events and traffic started to appear the same for parking and for the data mining algorithms we use these traffic sensors to be a target attribute because we want to find rules that predict or detect traffic complex events. Why we tried this decision trees is because we know that from every decision tree we can actually extract a rule. These instances were classified and we can see that in 76% the traffic was correctly classified, which comparing to the baseline baseline classification 0R is twice as good. Use and.