[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hi good morning my name is Tom Wilson. I'm from a young company in Vienna specializing on 3D film technologies. I know that this is part of an academic conference, so I thought I'd better start with a few.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Facts, and here's a very big fact. 3D Cinema is a trend. 3D Cinema gives viewers gives audiences a sense of immersion in the action, a sense of being their sense of reality. And a sense of meaning and emotion. And another fact is that customers really like this. Customers like it so much that they are prepared to pay more for it consistently. This makes cinemas very happy and it makes film production companies very happy because they can justify a 30% premium on a ticket price compared with the 2D equivalent. However, making the 3D version only cost them about 15% more on average. This means they have a higher margin, so they're happy about this. Consumers like the experience that they have in the cinema so much that they want to take this and have it in the home and already in the consumer electronics shops, we're seeing 3D televisions out there. And this makes consumer electronics companies happy because they can sell a television set with a premium of about 20%. But it only cost them about 10% to add that functionality to the set. So they're also making an extra margin so consumers are driving this move from the cinema into the home because they want to have the same experience that they've enjoyed in this cinema.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
But it's not quite that simple, and the reason for this was nicely described in the best paper award at the International Broadcasting Convention this year in Amsterdam. And the best paper was called does size matter, and it was addressing the fact that the viewing conditions are very particular and very precise. For 3D you have to sit in exactly the right position relative to the size of the display. That means if you move. Too far away from this play, you might see something that's blurred or you might see something that's distorted or somehow seems unreal. Arms are too long. Rooms don't seem quite realistic if you sit too close, you might find that you get tired quickly. Your eyes are sore, you get a headache. This is a major problem and it's recognized in the industry. In order for this transition from the cinema to the Home 2 to go smoothly, this problem is.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
To be solved and emotion 3D is. Working on an innovative and patentable solution that enables a customization of the 3D content to occur within a consumer electronics device close to the television that allows the content to be customized in order to give the optimal viewing impression on any 3D display in any viewing conditions. And. I say consumer electronics products. What I mean by this is for example Blu Ray players, 3D projectors, set top boxes or 3D televisions. Either the type that we see at the moment in the shops where we need to wear glasses to get the 3D impression, or the next generation where no glasses are required to get this 3D effect. And in fact these glass these.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
This is free televisions I've just described are already being used for advertising in public places such as airports and shopping malls, and our most recent customer was BMW. BMW wants to show its cinema advertisement that it shows in 3D before 3D film to audiences in the general public, in public places, and they had to come to us. We provide a conversion service for. Customizing the the 3D content so it can be viewed on these displays and it's the same technology that we're using that we've built into our first product. The beta version is available. There's a very many screenshot of it here if you want to see the big version of that, please ask me a question later. And the technology in this beta product allows film makers to work with 3D film material in a much easier way and to overcome some of the challenges associated with 3D filmmaking. On the right are some of our.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Partners. Our team consists at the moment of eight people for brilliant engineers, two scientific advisors at the Technical University in Vienna. Myself and my colleague Mr Florence. Right now in the audience were looking.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Here to fill up the roles of finance and marketing and with this team we're going to build a real time solution as I've described by this time next year if we have.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
The funds that we need. The reason we're doing this. The market by 2015 should be 78 million television sets worth 64.4 billion dollars and emotion. 3D wants to be a part of this. We have the potential to be the first in this market and just before I leave.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
If you let's let the customer have the final word. Thank you.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Text. I'll start again how much you charge for this service, Mr. Charge for the service. At the moment we are charging 2 1/2 thousand euros per minute of converted content. And if I want to buy this solution, if you want to buy this solution, if you want to buy the beta product, you should contact me afterwards. The OK but the long term thing that we want to build and the reason I'm here today is this real time solution that we want to have ready in a year. OK, so how interesting enough? Yesterday there was a on the newswire that Apple just got a patent in the US for a glasses free 3D screen as well as this for example to sheep is launching this month in Japan glasses free 3D television and Nintendo's 3DS handheld device as well. We should be. They claim is 3D without glasses. Now, as far as I know, these work with existing 3D film production systems. So can you please clarify? What is the unique selling point from your product that guarantees that you could enter this market? OK, well, thank you for the question. It's a very good one. The problem is not so much the end devices such as the all of the displays you've mentioned and mobile phones to that because there are already millions of 3D enabled mobile phones with 3D auto stereoscopic glasses. Free displays available. The problem is actually content getting the content, getting 3D material. That works well. It gives the right impression and customizing that for different display types. Because every display every viewing condition is different and for example, the version of a film you might make for a cinema would need to be made in a totally different version to show on, say, Nintendo device or Apple's new glasses free television. Thank. Could one consider this? Is something similar to digital signal processing of audio signal signals to adapt to the psychoacoustic situation of room? That means you convert the material in a way that the impression is. Better or real, considering your viewing condition. Thank you for the question. That's a very good analogy, yes. The sum of the systems available at the moment for customizing. Audio systems in order to give the best impression in different living rooms or different offices, this is. This is the same kind of idea. It's the digital signal processing approach that optimizes the content in this case film. But in the case you described, audio for the conditions where it's intended to be enjoyed. Thank you. OK, I think we've got time for one more question and I'm going to ask it. The you mentioned, it was patentable and that seems quite important given you know there's a lot of activity in this whole 3D space in in a range of different areas. One of the other questions said. So what makes you think it's patentable? And how far have you got with the patenting process? OK, we've we've done an infringement search. We have a method that's not not in any way patented at the moment we plan to file our first patterns early next year, and there are actually so many innovations involved in this process. For us the the real question is what should we patent first? Not not. What should we patent at all? We have the unique aspect of our approach is that we can do this process processing this digital image processing. We have the capability to do this in real time at an affordable price. So we can create a device that is consumer friendly from a price point, whereas the many of the patents I've seen so far, either the quality is lacking or the speed is lacking. So we have a sweet spot here. We have good quality at A at a cost well at a with processing that can be implemented in cheap consumer hardware. OK, thank you.
