I work for Siemens corporate Research, a division of Siemens Corporation. The overview will talk about data models and temporal concepts and operators, and will start talking about patterns and algorithms for timepoint data. Stock prices go way back and they there's no real segmentation. So for machine logs you could say every day that the machine was working for documents you could say every paragraph and then there's other data that directly naturally comes into in many short sequences. Scenes in videos, musical melodies are pretty short, so the actual motive in Anality is a short discrete time sequence. So duration is the persistence of an event over several time points. And my example here is where the Thunder storm, so the Thunder would have iteration because you hear it over couple of seconds. So concurrency is the closeness of two or more temporal events in time, in no particular order. You could have a B or BA and just say within 5 minutes or within 10 seconds. You could say shortly before you have a threshold, so if it's within that time range, the operator applies or it doesn't or closely after. It's not the next day, but the next business day. We have an interval and interval point relations. We have from rotec. So you have between any two intervals there is must be exactly one of these relations, and you can calculate with these so, and they were invented in artificial intelligence exactly for that for that purpose, for temporal reasoning. They found Ellens relations and they use it for data mining, but I'm arguing there are some disadvantages, so we'll get that later, so they're not very robust for example, and also in the data mining community, many variations have been proposed that use thresholds too. Start and end points of the intervals are enough to uniquely identify the relations. One point of each interval, so two points overall with the marking. We have tail to tail, so now the 1st two are relations between the two start points. These are not widely used in data mining. So there you have point starts in point finishes. So that's to reason about possible future worlds. Multiple future worlds which really in data mining isn't so applicable because you have usually observations. Um Radixx proposed are still a quantitative way, so he said, what about if we not only look at the relation of the two intervals? So and you know, thinking that through all the possible combination you end up with nine different versions of overlap depending on where the midpoints are respect to the other interval and the two combinations. So that's all he used and you could say contains you could express with Ellen's relations as A = B or B starts a bit during a or BNC, so it's. Usually people look at frequent patterns because it's an unsupervised task. So frequencies, important frequencies, number of occurrences divided by size of the database. I don't want observations to overlap, so that's these minimal occurrences, but in general that's frequency is always used in the same way and then for unsupervised mining you specify a minimum frequency to say your pattern is significant. If it's a pattern has exactly the same frequency as a super pattern, it would also be reported as frequent by this definition. Then you have a closed pattern. Four times frequency. So then in time points, one simple pattern we can say is substring patterns. So you have a sequence of symbols and without gaps in the pattern. So you would have a long string and you see BCB, BCB, BCB observed in there twice. So in bioinformatics, many applications of this finding, discriminative patterns, sequence alignment, and so also the book by Dong and pay on sequence data Mining a mentions a lot of these applications. Proposed proposed sequential patterns, so they're very well known, and here they formulated as a sequence of a set of symbols, and again, the reason that this is formulated this way is that they kind of start motivate their work with a different data model, which is shopping transactions from a customer overtime, so they express the same concept of order, but immediately from the beginning. And then also there's several algorithms for close, sequential close sequential patterns, so the first one was close band, then there is a byte. Large difference in support. Other variations include regular expression, so I showed you regular expressions for the sequence patterns also for sequential patterns you can formulate regular expressions and garofolo keys showed how to tightly incorporate that into the algorithm, so you have a good pruning effect. So episodes are partial order of sets of symbols. Be from sequential patterns, so they express the order of the concept of order, but also concurrency. Or close by, but you don't really care about the shifts, so you could draw some more situations in the data where this pattern would match, and then the authors typically distinguish between different episodes. An parallel episodes represent parallelism, concurrency, the close by, but no order and then episodes in these papers are defined as an arbitrary partial order. So we mine. Serial and parallel episodes. Some things how this can be done in the algorithms. You might have, you know, a A and then the rest of the pattern follows so. Maybe it's the same situation in the data, so then we nappy approach was just percentage of Windows fixed, sliding window and the minippi was windows that not contain subpatterns, so minimal experiences and then other people have added gap constraints and other things. Also an I'll discuss that in more. A little bit more detail later, there has been some work on closed episodes, but really it's more close groups of episodes and there's a reason for that very interesting. You can transfer. For me, temporal data mining is really the concept of any data mining task that has some relation to time. So this can be many many different things and I'll start with some that I'm not going to talk about today. So then I see a specific sub area of temporal data mining that's time series data mining. We're not going to talk about, but I want to talk about temporal patterns. So then I want to talk about partial order patterns and again there these concepts are overlapping, sequential patterns overlap with episodes a little bit episodes. That's a partial order that cannot be expressed by a combination of serial parallel episodes and that has been pointed out by Payan has references. So here you see again the order between A&D is unspecified. I mean this is 95 and we didn't have computational power and so on for the algorithms. Another work for close partial order mining was proposed by pay it I so this is pretty efficient algorithm for mining closed orders and actually in the paper he has two. So the first one and that's a really good idea to say we interpret edges in partial order as items, so it's similar to what I did in the other example to say hey my close sequential patterns are now items here. Does that trans close so it just mines closed itemsets? E is before ABF and we have an edge is before G and. So then. Another work is conjunctive sequential patterns. Also pretty recent and kind of related to what I said before, so they use close sequential pattern mining again closely with pattern mining algorithms. They work on equivalence classes, and these equivalence classes are based on a prefix, so they say if something starts with this prefix then it's in this equivalence class and that's how close Bannon byte traverse the search space and know which which are the maximal patterns for an equivalence class and what's a close sequential pattern. They tried and the lower bound was always 0, which is which was useless. So they did the same extension that other people had done before them in different contexts is that they say now, but it would work for groups of sequential patterns if we look at groups, we suddenly have an equivalence class structure that's very similar to itemsets, and we can apply all these concepts and the same thing is what causes Garriga did in that she said I'm grouping sequential patterns. You know they didn't show it in that in that detail, so I'm connecting the dots now, but they called it close episodes. No sorry and then. Serial parallel combined and then the full partial orders and yes episodes originally were also full partial orders, but I'm splitting this kind of like how it's used in the literature. Probably a lot of 'em generalize, but the people don't do it, or they don't mention it. They don't discuss this general case, whereas partial orders, so Costa Rica or pay was directly designed for these partial orders. Also, there hasn't been many for for partial orders one is the kind of what I mentioned earlier that we had these algorithms that are margin closed, which is an additional constraint. If you don't need gaps, take a look at those if you need gaps or your data model is nonuniform and so on, but you're pretty sure you need a strict ordering, then sequential patterns. The most general class of patterns you can search in this data is partial orders, and it helps a lot because if the true phenomenon generating the data has a partial order, you can find it and you couldn't probably wouldn't find it with sequential patterns because it might be split up, or so this is the most flexible representation of knowledge in this data, and you know I'm always for letting the data speak so you know try this algorithm, see if some useful partial orders come out. So the table I'm grouping in the in the first section a little bit along data models with data models, does IT support so substrings really only support univariate data model, right? So then you know maybe you would find better patterns with a better productiveness or something, but the user would reject them when they say they're not meaningful for me. So will talk about Time Point in time interval data. Another dimension is temporal concepts. So what are the desired semantics? Now, out of the data model and the temporal concepts, then kind of. So we have since I'm writing sequentially we have a before C is started by B and then we have overlap Steve. What they do is they always combine two intervals and then they combine two of those and then they combine two of those I believe, so pretty much the same thing. To make a system really useful to ensure it's always the same. On the order of squared F K * K -- 2 Relations for K intervals, so the more intervals you get in your pattern that it grows quadratically. In a time point data model, every observation is associated with a specific point in time. So usually people look for order. So in the previous slide for time points I was able just to list them right there. So here all three temporal concept order concurrency sinchronicity coincidence you know they all somewhere in there in these languages, so we'll discuss that. So if you do, data mining usually have temporal data model represented with discrete time points. But all the things we're going to talk about today where you are using the screen time points and then my definition is a time series is a set of unique time points. Samples overtime may be uniformly spaced, maybe not, but their own every time point appears only once and at times sequence is a multi set of time points, so you could have two elements in that sequence have the same time point sort of duplicate time points, but then usually it would require different data or different labels of these data elements. That makes some things easier. That I include the discrete starting point in the discrete ending point. So now you can say two intervals overlap if there's at least one time point that lies within both intervals and interval serious is a set of non overlapping time intervals, so one follows after the other and an interval sequence. So here's a diagram of the typical data models. So now you can for each time point you get a label such as ABC or low, medium, high. And you have a discrete label for each time point. An example where you have, you know, without coming from numerical time series for symbolic Time series is DNA sequences. You know you have a document that's a sequence of words, and each word is a label. So here also we have nominal labels, but.