Let's refresh what ontology based data access is. It is an approach to data integration and in this approach the data consumers, users, applications. The mediator between the consumers and the data providers and this ontology offers an. Users access these kind of systems by posing queries on top of ontologies. One day consumers layer. We have this enriched queries behind the hood, semantic queries and the data queries and data answers. How do we process these queries? So first we take this statical query which has static conjunctive query in a streaming query, rewrite it into a static QCQ unit, union of conjunctive queries and then you streaming query and then you can fold it into aggregate SQL and still another streaming query that both fit in the Sqlplus language which is the language of our back end. So this rewriting essentially does the same thing as perfect information for the alive. We do this an unfolding relies on two kinds of mappings, standard mappings and aggregate mappings. Ann, this is the data stream management system that is extension of SQL, SQL Lite DB engine. It has this special sqlplus queries language. It has a smart planner, so this is the part in the Orange box, and the planning is based on queries and execution environment and so on. Do the great job view based optimization. Meet. Simple aggregates. One life 1000 / 100,000 archived streams. We found the killer example of this turbine diagnostics where classical obedience failed to perform well. So the engineer who will will try to use the reliable, he will not really know, is it the reliability he needs or not. It has been applied in cultural heritage, environmental organizations and even in industry. So OBD is is getting its customers. This example example of Siemens turbine monitoring. Sensors generate temperature, pressure and things like this and it streams it through some processing devices to the datacenters, so datacenters accumulate streaming data. They have static data about turbine structures and they have lots of other kind of data in this data centers on top of data centers. This is the query in a short form, so in junior would ask give me reliable sensors that are reporting alerting temperature. This have proper sensors. What does it mean that the temperature is loading? M Well, first of all, existing committees systems focus items static on streaming data and were not aware. An another thing is that existing computer systems are really good for congential queries, but they're not so good for analytics, in which sense? This is 1 approach and this approach has his limitations because then you would need to ship a lot of data just to get one average and a lot of data is redundant and you would ignore source capabilities. Average could have been already somewhere in the databases, but you just didn't check it. This is, this corresponds to the epistemic semantics of aggregates. An another way of doing aggregates is to encode them directly in mappings. That's a processes data of various kinds, not just relation about streaming and so on data. So they support declarative specifications of analytic operations. So the ontology, then the query language and the mappings, they should become analytics aware they should know about analytics. OBD system should become source and cost aware what does it mean? Streaming, relational other whatever databases. So the first part is about this higher level about analytics where ontologies queries mappings and the query transformation I will give you what we propose. OK. Let's move to the analytic awareness. The first thing that should become analytically risen teologi as a set, and this is how this ontology may look like. I will do all Tokyo which is the language for OBD. This is how they look like. Class I could do the job to encode these aggregates and things, so the syntax of the language I don't want to go in details. It's basically dialight as it is with an extension that you have new types of of concepts and they should be used in a careful way in the axiomatics. And conjunctive query answering under the restrictions that we imposed is tractable.