What we did was we handwrote nemaline structure, and we learned weights on top of it from the data and for weight learning we adapted contrastive divergent, which you can think of. The first kind of is about the relations between Sessions. And so the query predicate that will be trying to predict states that a person will click on a particular host name. And so for each possible search results that we get from the search engine, we compute the probabilities of the user will click on that result and we rank the search results by their probability of being clicked. So the first one says, well, the user will click on at least one result. And then the user will select the result that's chosen by previous user with whom a click is shared. So the user will select the result that has a keyword in it that was already searched for. It's from the MSN engine collecting May 2006. It contains timestamped records of searches, clicked URLs, and each of them has session identifier. Provides this hierarchy that categorizes web pages on the web and if at least two of these clicks were in different high level categories, we assume that this is an ambiguous query. These two query of length up to two which is about 44% of the data. And part of the motivation for this is just, you know, makes it easier for us, but also shorter queries tend to be more more ambiguous. We just collected all the URLs that were clicked for a particular search and we assume that these are the Urals that the user saw. But we think that this way we address this limitation makes the problem a little bit more difficult, because now we can just perform well by separating the relevant results for any topic from the completely irrelevant to that search. Nation we use the mean average precision, which is well known in the IR community. Machine learning people probably are more familiar with the area under the precision recall curve. So you can think of it either as the area under the arosi curve or as the mean average true negative rate. Another one is rank by the similarity of of sessions based on shared clicks. And also ranked by similarity based on shared clicks and key. Actual content content of click pages? We also want to try to weigh evidence based on how close it is in time to the current. You know, people have written papers like this one Googling considered harmful where you know in all seriousness there, arguing that you know this is a serious infraction on people's privacy. There's also the pragmatic concerns. Are you going to use logins? Searching all the search activity of one person. And what we're going to do with this kind of information is we're going to try to relate the current session that contains the use query, two sessions of other users based on the activities that happened in the. So how short is short term? So is this enough information? So there's some more closely related work that target is similar. Setting as the closest that I know of is paper by Almeda Nomeda, and they have a similar assumption that the sessions are going to be short, but their work is better suited for more specialized search engine. And the main idea will be to exploit the relations among the users, the sessions and the URLs and will be using.