[0.0s - 29.0s]
Reduce my running example. The user goes to search engine enters.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
A potentially ambiguous query, for example scrubs which could be the popular TV show. Or it could be referring to a type of medical uniform and the problem is you know what does the user mean an. This is.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Well studied problem, I've just listed a few papers here that are more or less that are relatively close to our work and the common assumption that's being made is that you have information about each user over a relatively long period of time.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So there are issues with that, so their privacy concerns. We've talked a little bit about that, you know, people know about the case when AOL released their data, the New York Times Reporter goes finds that person in interviews and it's a big scandal. You know, people have written papers like this one Googling considered harmful where you know in all seriousness there, arguing that you know this is a serious infraction on people's privacy. So.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Now we have even search engines like recently cool that specifically explicitly says that they don't collect any records of what people do on their web search. There's also the pragmatic concerns. How are you going to identify users across their sessions? I think there was some of that discussion yesterday when people were saying, well, how do you know that this is the same user? For example on Amazon or so on, you know? Are you going to use logins? Are you going to use the IP address? Their problems with both and then you know it's a it's a concern of how to manage and protect this user.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Tific information, So what we propose is, you know, let's let's continue collecting data. Let's not be like cool, but we want to collect it in a way that doesn't link all the sessions to the same person. We just want to collect it on the session by session basis. And so we have very short snippets of search histories from a lot of people. But we can't put these snippets together in order to figure out that this is, you know, all the other. Searching all the search activity of one person. And what we're going to do with this kind of information is we're going to try to relate the current session that contains the use query, two sessions of other users based on the activities that happened in the.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Query. So how short is short term? This is just a histogram from artist test data and on the X axis we have the number of queries that were issued in the session before the ambiguous queries issued, and so this is this is in log scale. That's why these are different widths. But basically we can see you know the peak is at three, so people enter 3. Three search queries and then they have an ambiguous query and our task is to disambiguate that query from, you know, the small amount of information without knowing you know their previous hist.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
3. So is this enough information? Well, I think so. There are two. These are two examples from the data. And you know, in the first one the person searches for some radio stations. In this crossing appears to be a radio station as well. Then they search for scrubs. In the in the other one they search for Huntsville Hospital. Then they search for eBay and then they search for scrubs again. You know I can make a pretty educated guess here that the first one is going to refer to the TV show where the second URL is for the medical garment.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So there's some more closely related work that target is similar. Setting as the closest that I know of is paper by Almeda Nomeda, and they have a similar assumption that the sessions are going to be short, but their work is better suited for more specialized search engine. Their experiments are an online store for computer science literature, so it's not even a general bookstore where's we would like to have something that. You know works in general, not general purpose search engine, and there's this recent paper by crossing orbits where they explicitly model the tradeoff between the performance that you get in personalization and the kinds of user information that you're using. But from our perspective in this work, they still use more information than we would like to.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So the main challenge here is you know how can we use this very small amount of information that we know about the current user in order to disambiguate the queries and to provide some personalization. And the main idea will be to exploit the relations among the users, the sessions and the URLs and will be using. Techniques from statistical, relational learning. And this is a good resource here.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Not familiar. So here's an example of the kind of relational information will be using, so the orange rounded rectangle is the current active session where the person did the same searches and is now searching for scrubs. Ann, we have some previous in Grayson previous background sessions. Where you know just from historical data. And So what kind of relations will we use? We have a relation of sharing words. Across various things, so sharing words across either the first ring or the URL or the URL in the search string and substring URL. This kind of thing and I just want to emphasize here that we're not actually going to these web pages and getting information from them. The only keywords that we're using is the ones that are that are in the string of the URL and will be doing future work trying to trying to put some more information in that. And then you know also relate related sessions based on the clicks that appear in them.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So we use micrologic networks, so let's just kind of convenient for me that later gave his talk, and so I can now assume that everybody knows about Markov logic networks. What we did was we handwrote nemaline structure, and we learned weights on top of it from the data and for weight learning we adapted contrastive divergent, which you can think of. You know, I guess it's one of the simplest way to learners and we adapted it for incremental learning because the data wouldn't fit. Into memory an. I mean it's not, it's not, and it's not too difficult to do that. It's just hacking the code rather than any algorithm.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Development. Um? We define some predicates, so the evidence comes from two kinds of predicates. The first kind of is about the relations between Sessions. You know, for example, this one says that the active session Anna background session share keyword between clicks that appear in them, and you know that this is the keyword. Another one says that the active session in the background session share clicked a particular host name. And then we have within session information. You know what happened in that particular session before the ambiguous query was issued. And so the query predicate that will be trying to predict states that a person will click on a particular host name. So.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
How are we going to use this? Well, we assume that the search engine already outputs a set of results for the query, and our goal is just re rank them in order to put on top the ones that are relevant to the particular goal for this query. And so for each possible search results that we get from the search engine, we compute the probabilities of the user will click on that result and we rank the search results by their probability of being clicked. So.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
We have a couple of millions as we defined I won't be giving you first order logic because it's easier to just read it in English. So the first one says, well, the user will click on at least one result. And then the user will select the result that's chosen by previous user with whom a click is shared. Here is a picture of that. So here is our active session. There's some query in that same click, and the ambiguous query. So this second rule is saying you know the person will basically select the result chosen by a session that shares a click.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Formula Two, we kept everything in MLN one and then added another one. Another rule that relates sessions, this time saying that the current user will click on the result selected by someone that shared the keyword in the session.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And so we have now the third mlen, which is everything so far. Plus within session information. So the user will select the result that has a keyword in it that was already searched for.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So the data actually we have data from Microsoft we were talking about that earlier. It's from the MSN engine collecting May 2006. It contains timestamped records of searches, clicked URLs, and each of them has session identifier. You cannot relate. You cannot say well these two sessions belong to the same user. Each session is on its own, so this data exactly fits the scenario we're trying to solve. So the average length of deficient in this data is 3.28 clicks. And for training we use the first 25 days and for testing the last 6.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So this data has a few limitations and I want to talk a bit about what we did about them. So the first one is data doesn't say what is in the Bu's query, So what we did was we just went through the whole data set, collected all the clicks that were associated to a particular query, and went to dymos, which. Provides this hierarchy that categorizes web pages on the web and if at least two of these clicks were in different high level categories, we assume that this is an ambiguous query. We limited. These two query of length up to two which is about 44% of the data. And part of the motivation for this is just, you know, makes it easier for us, but also shorter queries tend to be more more ambiguous. So we ended up with about 6000 ambiguous queries like this, which is about 2% of all.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
To work query strings. The other really serious limitation is the data doesn't say what results the user actually saw in the page. We only know what the person clicked on, so this this quite difficult to test the system that way. So what did we do? We just collected all the URLs that were clicked for a particular search and we assume that these are the Urals that the user saw. And as a consequence, our results have differing lengths. And this will be important in the valuation measures. But we think that this way we address this limitation makes the problem a little bit more difficult, because now we can just perform well by separating the relevant results for any topic from the completely irrelevant to that search. Because we know that at least one person clicked on that result. So it must be good for something. Now we really need to be able to separate the the ones that are relevant for the particular topic that the users looking for from the ones that are relevant but not for that topic.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
So this is just the histogram showing how large the results were. This is right around 9:00 or 10 here. For value.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Nation we use the mean average precision, which is well known in the IR community. Machine learning people probably are more familiar with the area under the precision recall curve. It's the same metric. And well, so this metric is as I said, the results have differing lengths of this metric is not sensitive to that. So if you have 100 possible results an you rank the second one, the best one. Second you get the same the same score. As in the situation, if you only have two possible results and you rank the relevant one second, so this one can be a little misleading in cases when the results have differing lengths, so we use another one, which makes more sense to us.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So you can think of it either as the area under the arosi curve or as the mean average true negative rate. So intuitively this metric tells you. Well, if the if the user gets the results listed on the Page 1 by 1 and user starts from the top down, this metric basically tells you how many what percentage of the irrelevant results the user didn't see.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
We have a few simple baselines, so one is just rank randomly. Another one is rank by the similarity of of sessions based on shared clicks. And also ranked by similarity based on shared clicks and key.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Words. Here's a quick. Picture of that. So we have the current session. We have all the sessions, all the all the background sessions that search for the ambiguous queries and the different colors indicate that they have different content to them, and so we just calculate what is the average similarity to these ones. What is the average similarity to those ones? And we're not right now. We're not weighing, you know, maybe if you searched on for some medical website, it's it's going to be more indicative that you're looking for medical garments. But we're not waiting on these.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
No, that's something we'll do in the future, and so the other one. Also compute similarity.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Q words. Results this is the map measure, so we have the various systems right here and what we see is that using this relational information definitely helps over random and the two millions that relate sessions performed the best. The ones that have a snowflake on top are statistically significantly better than all the previous ones, and we see that it doesn't really help to incorporate information from the current. Active session.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
And we see a similar thing on the other Metro.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So future current. This is a project that you know it's relatively new to us and. We have a lot of things that we still want to do. We want to incorporate more information into our models. Right now, they're pretty bare bones. Actual content content of click pages? Or you know at least maybe get the categories of demos or something like that. The popularity of pages is a very strong signal that we would like to incorporate. We also want to try to weigh evidence based on how close it is in time to the current. Session in the media query. Also we are right now not learning separate weights. Especially was showing we're not using that. Plus that allows you to learn a separate wait for every connecting keyword or domain. We tried that and there wasn't enough information in the data for it, so we will be looking at trying to group the keywords or domains and we also would like to revise the clauses that we hand, right?

[841.0s - 870.0s]
With that I'm looking very open to questions. So one observation you said you don't have pages that are irrelevant user software. You could just re issue a query growth with search engine and get those pages. Yeah, so we could do that, but our data is from May 2006 and I actually saw a paper where they had a similar problem to ours and their data was from like August. They went to the search engine in September to get these pages and you know I think 10% of the. Clicked results were no longer returned by the search engine, so the other problem is there are three types of queries that it's navigational, informational, and collection. If it's a navigational query that is probably just one good result, and then that's it, right information, same information from multiple pages, so you're actually underreporting your own results because there's more than one way to get the same. Yeah, that's true, commercial is even worse, because you can buy the same product from 10 different places, so it depends on what the distribution of the queries are in your system. The results may be different, right? Yeah, yeah, I agree with you completely that there is a lot of noise in how we. Determine what's the biggest query and you know how we decide. OK, the person clicked on this, but is it really an actual interest or is it just didn't read it, just clicked or something? Of mapping keywords to web pages as opposed to keywords disabilities. Which is a more intermediate? I see. Another question. Zachary, I have very simple question. So why do you think you pick up the mark of logic network so sexy? Well, well, so we've we've, we've. We've worked with Mark Logic, Networks before and we're comfortable with them to us. It's kind of intuitive to write things out in first order logic, so you know. And the main reason, well, we already think that we need a statistical, relational learning solution to this problem, because we really need to exploit the relations between the sessions. We can't. We don't really have much content in each session, and so out of the all the statistical relational learning models are there, we were just. You know familiar and comfortable with Markov logic? An yeah and also you know as Federal said there is alchemy which implements these algorithms, so I didn't. You know, I only needed to hack this in order to make it incremental. I didn't need to write any large amounts of code, yeah? OK. Let's dance.
