So tactical generation systems are generally based on existing. But these tactical realization systems have no representation of the discourse. Are stored in the operator context. Of Alpha and we add. Formulas of the form exists variable sentence. Then we take it out and add it to the set of variable typing and variable typing. And then we restore the operator context to its previous state. Hide and get every man loves Mary. Negative formulas are also dealt with using the operator context, so. The operator stack also contains variables corresponding to universal and existential quantifiers. If the formula is of the form Phi implies PSI. A given variable type entry. First, well, if the variable is in the discourse context, then you use a back reference like that or the. Followed by a noun that expresses the variables type. For all the news every. The right approach because there are common constraints between. This theoretical construct, called the discourse reference which is not an actual reference like an actual object in the domain. Then you'll get if a farmer owns every donkey, so. Which means that Y will be removed from the discourse context. In this quote, he says the appearance of an indefinite noun phrase, such as a man. Establishes a discourse reference just in case it justifies the occurrence of a coreferential pronoun or definite noun phrase later in the text. The solution that we've come up with uses both a discourse context and an operator context. And as he says, this definition allows the study of coreference to proceed independently of any theory of extralinguistic reference. Has been to define and implement an algorithm for translating formulas of cycle, which is a form of predicate logic into English. If the input is a fully formed ERS. Then the discourse representation will remain fixed throughout the generation procedure, as opposed to changing as the generation. What this means is that what we want to do is generate both referring expressions and non referring expressions, expressions that refer to objects or people like Mary and expressions that don't like no woman. You could translate that As for every X if X is a man, then X loves X and that would be clear enough. That should be translated as Mary loves everything. You want to translate that as if a farmer owns a donkey, then he beats it, not. If every farmer owns every donkey, then he beats it second. Mary doesn't love every donkey. You want to translate that as Mary doesn't love any donkey or any donkeys. Donkeys don't love Mary, so there's some. You want to translate that X using every Mary doesn't love everything. That means there's there's someone who doesn't love Mary. So this means there doesn't exist any person that Mary loves, so Mary doesn't love anybody anyone. Are you want to translate it that as Mary loves herself? In fact, you know we're saying no woman loves herself, right? If you say I found Mary's cat. But a short term reference can just die abruptly at the end of a sentence. Everybody found a cat and kept it. Then it ran away, is not OK. According to Hime, I can kind of get this. Everybody found a cat and kept them. I know her that's completely bad. There can be different lifespans, so if you say a farmer, if a farmer owns a donkey then he beats it. And this generation function depends not only on the formula to be translated, but also on two kinds of context. And it has side effects, so it modifies the context as it goes along. So that's sort of the formal definition of. So the discourse context, unlike those discourse representation structures that I showed at the beginning, is just a set of discourse reference. They don't have constants in them and then associated with each discourse reference is set of index features, person number and gender, and that determines how pronouns are realized. Just as an aside, as I just mentioned, DRT treats all discourse reference as variables. If you allow constants to be discourse reference, then you won't need this external anchoring device, so I'm with Reinhard, Wisconsin. Of the algorithm that makes the semantics dynamic. It's very simple if the expression to be realized is an individual denoting constant or a variable ranging over individuals, then as you generate the this expression, you add it to the discourse context. Specifies that it should be translated as a transitive sentence in which the subject is the realization of the first argument. An appropriate output for such an object would be the book on the table. That gives you everything likes itself. But variables are removed from the discourse context after you're done generating the quantificational expression, binding them so in for all X like sex. Is not in the discourse context. Such as these women who have fewer than two two children, or the people who work for exactly 2 employers.