And conclusion it can be seen that the measures are similar in criminal procedure and in criminal intelligence activity. Powers, which were usually typical for criminal procedure are. Intelligence activity is one of the latest trends in policing. The criminal intelligence activity has the same circle of data or of activities that is typical according to the theory of intelligence activities. Therefore, any other intelligence activities. It calls for exchange of data relevant for repression of terrorism. Council conclusions on the creation and implementation of a UU policy cycle for organized and serious international crime from 2010. That's usually the topic relevant for EU criminal cooperation. An assessment was made that Slovenia does not have this. So there was a resolution on national plan on the prevention and combating crime for the purity of period of 2000, seven 2011, which somehow hoped that this criminal in the intelligence activity will be created or rule start functioning. Thought and then the resolution from 4 2012 2016 was more detailed and also provided for establishment of regional units for this activity. Next the police Act from 1998 did not regulate the criminal intelligence activity, but the police tasks and Powers Act from 2014 with amendments does regulate this in Article 11. OK bye, this is false. But the this provision was not amended at as it was. Then paragraph three prohibits entrapment. And of course we stumbled upon the question and the problem how to distinguish between police informant undercover police, coworkers and citizens according to the Criminal Procedure Act. Undercover police coworker can only be active upon a written order of state prosecutor under strict CPA Criminal Procedure Act conditions. When Criminal Act has already been committed. As I've already mentioned, informant cooperates voluntarily, but this is problematic when the informant is being paid by the police for the information monitored by money or by lower sentence citizens, and is not necessarily voluntary. No, there is no contract with the police, but it he or he or she has to be registered with police on the underside. The aside the measure according to the Criminal Procedure Act must be planned into represents continuous data collection about the suspect about a concrete criminal act. The attempt was that all public sources were would be sources for this activity. But what is interesting is the police interpretation that public sources include also personal data. It is written that any data collection and processing is regulated by the police legislation and should be made according to Chapter 5 of this act. There is an another interesting article in this act and Article 100, Two, 22. Which states that policemen must not may not use automated processing of personal or other data for drafting a decision, which with which would prejudice the rights or obligation of another person on and on the other hand, there it is also prohibited to make personality profiles of persons through data.