Today, I'd like to talk a little bit about some of my results on models of Hume's principle and their potential philosophical significance. So, Hume's principle codifies a basic principle about cardinalities, says that any two properties have the same cardinality if and only if they are bijective. Its cardinality plus one. It means that if you know a definition of X, say relative to some parameters, then you actually know a definition of cardinality of X using those same parameters. So if you have a first order structure M and you look at this definable subsets, that's going to be the 2nd order part of our structures and your. Cardinality map is uniformly definable, perhaps in some Oracle, and you're sufficiently saturated, perhaps computably saturated relative, that Oracle, then the associated model that has the 1st order part. But the moral of this is that we can get D1 comprehension if we require our potential cardinality Maps to be uniformly definable innocence. Alright. Is that given for this particular definition of zero successor an number this system of predicative HP does not prove the successor axiom, it doesn't prove that every number has a successor, and so this particular interpretation fails. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to consider very well understood structure, IE the complex field. It turns out that the complex field is what is called strongly minimal. To do that, let's first just briefly recall Frege's definition of zero successor and natural number successor is just this very natural thing in terms of cardinalities. So you're closed our successor and contains 0 that's what hereditarily closed means here, so it suffices to show that given is one such hereditarily close at F. Negative one is in there right since F is for relatively close to, contain zero, contains one contains 2 contains 3, and it's an infinite set, so by the strong minimality this set F has to be Co finite, right? Say for example, it is negative, three that was in F, right? I'll show you now is that there are no definitions of number in predicative HP that yield predicative arithmetic, i.e. The real numbers particularly take a recursively saturated extension of the real field, which for present purposes you can just think of as the reels. Let me just describe informally how does that tell you that no definitions of number in predicative HP can yield all the axioms of predicative arithmetic well. Hence using the meta theorem. Also provable in predicative arithmetic, we can show that predicate arithmetic shows there's a model of predicative HP. ISO AC not proves the consistency of this D11 version of his principle. So our main question right was whether not I was calling interpretability premises sensitive to the traditional natural distinction between predicative and between productivity and productivity, and the main answer is yes, it is so sensitive. Natural question of course is is there a predicative abstractions principle that interprets predicative arithmetic, i.e. This question would allow the logistics to complete your project. If all such instruction principles were thought to be epistemically on power, the largest, at least on one raditional urges and only needs one of these abstraction principles to workout. The question would_the need to clarify the epistemic status of impredicativity if they lose. This says that HP interprets the piano axioms for arithmetic, in particular the 2nd Order of piano axioms for arithmetic. Here the sense of interpretability is the one we're used to when we think about how set theory set of set theory interprets the piano axioms for authentic. Namely there are set theoretic definitions of zero, successor and natural number relative to which the piano axioms are provable. Phrase theorem says that he was principle interprets the piano axioms. So in particular, Fraga shows us how to produce cardinality theoretic definitions of zero successor and natural number relative to which the piano axioms or theorems of Hume's principle. Sorry M is the cardinality of the wise and there's exactly one more why. In this next section, I want to briefly recall the connection of Frege's theorem to load racism in the philosophy of mathematics, and this prompts the main question that I'll ask I whether or not there are predicative versions of Frege's theorem. Five stresses when two series of homogeneous elements are compared with each other so that one assigns as far as possible to each element of the first series, an element of the second series. Here's the first possibility. First, by this operation, no element of the second remains leftover in each element of the first corresponds to one of the second, IE there's a bijection. Fraga tells us when will be able to see from this essay The Green login, that even inferences which are apparently particular to mathematics, like the inference from N + 1. He means mathematical induction. So in contemporary philosophy of mathematics, vigorous defense of Logicism has been presented by Crispin Wright and his many colleagues. Wright tells us anyone who accepts the piano axioms. Here's one very explicit way to make out more precisely the connection between humans principle and leucism described as such. It's an argument with free variables, so here's a logicist template. Then we must invoke something like what I'm going to call preservation premise, which says if it's known that principles PR interpretable principles P star and principles P. Star know, then principles Pier new and in the conclusion is going to be the piano axioms are known. Main question I have is is the interpretability premise, i.e. The claim that the piano axioms are interpretable in his principle is that sensitive to distinction between predicative and interactive versions of these theories. Higher quantifiers confiance I in the displayed equation may of course include instances of the cardinality operator, i.e. And so the main answer is no. What I'm calling the predicative interpretability premise is false, i.e. In fact, I'll try to share two things, will see how far I get first. I'm going to show you as kind of a warm up that given phrase, particular definition of zero successor and natural number in terms of these cardinalities that I described in the first section. HP does not prove the successor Axiom. So those are the two things that I want to share with you today in this limited time that I have, and the idea in both is going to be the same, we're going to build models of predicative HP on top of certain.