So for instance, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, data protection right to data protection is laid down like this. And independent of that, there exists the right of protection of private and family life in both the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union as well as the European Charter of Human Rights. And we are here also to stress that data protection is not an end in itself, and this would hold as well for privacy protection is not an end in itself, but it's a catalyst for the exercise of other fundamental rights. Which would conduct an infringement of privacy and at the same time, and this is also what Nadia already stressed in her presentation. The directive Data protection Directive for that sector and it must also be implemented by the Member States till my May 2018. And let me stress that data protection law didn't change so much from the Directive 95 which we had before was still in force to the general data protection Regulation and the directive for police and the judicial sector. So it's a fundamental principle of data protection law. And as we know that big Data analyzes is often based on data collected for other purposes. Becaused this is the core probation for further use further processing of personal data. But also you have to keep in mind the other points like the context in which the data was collected. The nature of the personal data and so on, and in particular, the consequences of the intended further processing for the data subject. In particular, if there is no significant impact of the further processing on the rights and freedom of data subjects, but of course, as you can see, this is in terms of big data. Next there are other ways out. Of course, if you have consent from the data subjects, but this is very unlikely in terms of big data. If you anonymize the data, if they're not personal data anymore, then of course you can also. Big data makes anonymization even more difficult because we have methods to derive personal other person information from from huge amounts of personal information. So let me explain it that way. So if you try to anonymize the data set and then you have just left so to say. I always say privacy by design means talk. Think about. Infringing use of a system by technical and organizational means on the factual level so that the system cannot be easily misused. What we did in terms of data minimization and privacy by design in general. In the example of mobile phone location data. So the aim of the project was monitoring of movements of crowds on large at large events through the analyzes of anonymized mobile phone location data. For reducing the likelihood that individuals can be found out in that data set our privacy by design measures is the reduction of accuracy of the data. They must be very specific to the purpose of what I actually want to do with my big data application, because otherwise the usefulness of the data decreases faster than the likelihood of red reidentified identification. Which is automated individual decision making. Are prohibited which are based solely on automated processing. Including profiling and produce legal or similarly significant effects on the data subject, and there are some exceptions. Provides for lawful data processing of data which is manifestly made public by the data subject. So this is a bit of a difference to to really a publicly available data on the Internet or on social or social media platforms, for example, and we do know this and we heard it this morning. Who controls the algorithm and most open source intelligence software is developed by private companies like Hacking Team in Italy or celebrated in Israel, and so it's very easy to understand the code. The algorithm for the software really doing. Actually, and this is a factual psychological effect that we are a bit overconfident in technology. So to make it short, they made and analyzes of the Facebook social graph. Of course, we're not not against big Data. I think of the consequences of 1's actions and we like to call it in Remembrance of the philosophical movement. So and I called out all the social scientists here among us, of course, and we should of course. Be aware of what algorithms algorithms really, really do and actually do, and as we heard it's going to change over the next few years a lot. And of course we're calling for specific privacy by design measures like Pseudonymization Animalization as long as real anonymization, there's some research going on where people looked into like browsing histories which were not personal data at all. Quote Big Data is like teenage sex. Nobody really knows how to do it. Everyone thinks everyone else is doing it, so everyone claims they're doing it, but their mode they're forgetting the most important. So, uh, what are the enablers of big data? We heard about that in the morning, of course, and the capacity and methods for handling and analyzing this data. We can analyze whole datasets and not only random samples, so this is this is really new and we can deduce sensitive information from common and trivial trivial data. So in our view definition of big data is maybe too narrow and it's not clear cut, so at its core big data starts where we stop asking particular questions and see what algorithms are able to find in the data. Are we rapidly heading towards a future where we'll be surrounded by smart machines on which we depend but which we cannot trust?