In the pre example, the guy with the new phone is the only element in the set, then each newly activated node you will have single chance to activate is still negative, naberrie with probability PUV and we call them the activation probabilities. And that is exactly the influence maximization problem which is formulated by camping at all in 2003. This question let's consider even more extreme example. That is, given instance of influence maximization, can we diagnose efficiently whether this instance is stable or not? So for the previous part of my talk, I'm quite vague about the definition of stability about instability. So in order to do that, we first need a model of misestimation of our activation probabilities. And we define the stability of influence maximization as follows. We said this instance is stable if the difference in influence is more for all legal ground truth, activation probability, PV prime and for all possible subsets of set K. So indeed, this definition. And we would like to find a set S of that K that maximizing the difference between Sigma and Sigma prime. Our main theorem say that under the independent Cascade model, the difference between Sigma and six Prime is a nonnegative and submodular function of the set S. So it is well known that the sigmas at the objective function of influence maximization is monotone and submodular, but surprisingly that here the difference between two influence function could also be submodular, but it's no longer monotone. So imply that we could not use the naive hillclimbing greedy algorithm to solve this problem is that we go to a more recent technique with this random greedy algorithm to solve this non monotone submodular function maximization under cardinality constraint. Which is proposed by Buchbinder at all. It has an approximation guarantee, roughly one or E which is worse than the 1 -- 1 or E of the Hill climbing greedy algorithm, and it has the running time, which is the same to the naive greedy algorithm of influence maximization. As a result, the influence maximization could be unstable. We found that early 10% relative error in your estimation of the activation probability still give you a different approximation. Also, all the techniques in this talk can be generalized to other different models. So about the future work, One Direction is to generalize to other diffusion models. Or we could generalize our misestimation model. So at this process goes on the social network.