So so yes, so I am researcher at INRIA Lille in France on an I'm currently on leave Nunca at Microsoft Research in New England lab. And so so I typed all this, this, this course reinforcement learning, introduction to reinforcement learning. About one is going to be a general introduction to reinforcement learning and dynamic programming will introduce the field of dynamic programming and. A policy pie is a function that tells you at anytime step. When the policy is independent of time, then we call it stationary. Map selection impossible state. In a finite or is and then you can define the value of a policy. But you can also define. Both involve policy which means at each state which action we should choose in order to maximize the expectation of the sum of rewards until you reach terminal State. Why? So I'm going to use this discount factor, which makes everything nice because because of that I'm guaranteed that all those quantities are finite. OK, so let's assume that we want to define the performance or the value function of a policy Pi in this way, and so our goal is to find the policy Pi that maximizes for any possible state. In other words, the pie is actually the fixed point of the bellman operator. So for any policy π V, π is a value of my policy, so function, so the pie is the solution to a fixed point equation. OK, so somehow you need to go this way in order to invert the pendulum. For Vista, So what is the star? It's defined as Superman for all possible policies of VPA and it's called the optimal value function. That's the best thing you can get studying from a state, an acting optimally. And we also have a Bellman equation. Basically taking the best possible immediate action. So here are some properties of the bellman operators, so tipai, and also the dynamic programming operator T. So both operators are monotonic. In the function, W is less than double 225 W, one is less than TW. Serve old books, so book by Bessica synthetically Neurodynamic programming the book by Sutton and Barto on introduction to Reinforcement learning on Markov decision problems. So the pie is the unique fixed point of Tippi, so we have already seen that it's it's a fixed point. Vista is a unique fixed point of T. Again, this is a consequence of the fact that T is a contraction. Is a consequence of the definition of Tippi, so 4.3 we have the pie is a fixed point of teepi by rewriting teepi using matrix notations we have. And then we just need to prove that this matrix is invertible. We want to prove that the policy defines in this way is optimal. So T we star is exactly this. I'm trying to restart OK, but we already know that the star is a fixed point of T, so TV star is equal to Vista. But we already know that this. So V Pistori called Vista. By the way, it's also stationary because here the policy doesn't depend on time, is just the function of the current state. Is to learn to make good decisions in unknown environments. So and more precisely, is kind of. So an example that illustrates this type of learning is, for example, a child that learns to ride a bicycle. There are many other applications in games also in robotics, packet routing, job shop scheduling, production, manufacturing, optimization. Whenever there is something that you need to learn and at the same time need to optimize, then you might think of applying reinforcement. Learning will also say a few words about those two applications, game of poker and the game of Go, but I will mention those one I will discuss about the setting of Milton bandits here you can find. Some applications that used reinforcement learning or potentially could use reinforcement learning. Diagram that we have in reinforcement learning. It may be stochastic, maybe partially observable. Based on this, feedback is to improve strategy, so learning is more difficult than in supervised learning. So that's the goal, and so one of the problem is really how to sacrifice short-term small reward in order to privilege larger rewards in the long term. An action agent can obtain from any state if he plays optimally. If I over results probabilities here. So whenever there is unlike this signal of surprise and then I can update my optimal value function and once I reach that state where in expectation there is no more signal of normal temporal difference, then it means that I've reached a good approximation of my optimal value function. Especially in situations where the environment can be stochastic, adversarial, or partially observable. One of the main points that I've already mentioned is the fact that since usually we don't know the state dynamics and the reward functions, then we need to learn them and at the same time as we need to plan so to find the best possible strategy in order to maximize our criterion. So we're going to assume that everything else is known. Markov decision process is basically just a Markov chain with actions, so we have a state space. So for example, it can be a function of the state and action, so that will be the immediate reward that is obtained when my agent in State X and choose action.