[0.0s - 29.0s]
This is about. MLW, Lt contributing to real business as a driver of business objectives and you might also say that my task is to convince you that MLW Lt is not just for geeks, but it's also for accountants. I'm neither of those two, so you can trust me. First of all, I want to introduce briefly the company of which I'm the.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The CEO, which is Kokomo. I want to tell you what we are doing and how we do it and how we got to the MLW Lt. So we are an agency or you might say if service provider for communication it were under 50 employees in three offices around Europe, in Spain, in Germany and in Bulgaria. We are very active in the open source world. We do a lot of interface development and. We are very much into content creation and that context we have the largest Drupal development teams in Germany and in Spain. Drupal will play an important role in what I will tell you and Gabor this morning already introduced Drupal, so I don't have to do that anymore. But what I want to tell you is really what gives us the kick to contribute to MLW Lt and that is that we would like to offer. Better multi lingual solutions to our clients and also to contribute to laying the foundations for a real integration of the CM S2 localization chain now.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
That's where our specific tasks in the MLW Lt project while we contributed to the definition of the ETS 2.0 standard. But above all, we had two main tasks. One was to enhance Drupal in two directions, One Direction being to make Drupal capable of handling ITSI rules in generating HTML5 content, and the other direction was to enable Drupal to do automatic round tripping off the content generated in the system in an XML format for localization purposes. So this was one of the main tasks and the other main task was to create a use case. And that use case was meant to show that droop, that MLW Lt that standardization of tagging rules really creates business benefits and not just for the localization industry, but for industry at large. So for our.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Use case we chose one of our company's clients, which is the V DMA VIE. DMA is Germany's plant and Machinery Manufacturers Association. It is the biggest industrial Association in the capital goods industry in Europe. It has more than 3000 corporate members and it's highly expert oriented and that you can also see here. The companies will.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Members of the VMA have exported in 2011 hundred 42 billion euros worth of goods. So expert is very important here and with expert comes multilingual challenge and the.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
In the case of the VMA is that today they have to handle 9 official languages. Those are the biggest European languages, but it's also Turkish. It's Russian, it's Chinese, and they would like to handle more languages. We heard this morning from Reinhart that you need 15 languages to reach 90% of the world's customers. They certainly want to go there. They probably don't want to go to the 7000 that Brian Hart mentioned, but they want to make headway in that direction and then the VM A has to publish online and offline. For 65 subsectors, for instance, the use case I will talk about is about rubbers and plastics, but there are many more subsectors domains that have to be covered and finally they have a central product database where they have above 200,000 products from the 3000 companies and that also has to be multilingual. So all this is not easy, it has to be managed. It costs time and of course it costs money. So what we told the VMA is that MLW Lt. The standardization of the multilingual web could be a solution to them, and we prove that through the use case and that's what I will show to you now. The use case was to take 141 press releases of the VMA and translate them from German.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
To Chinese and to French and in that process we used MLW Lt features we had developed for Drupal and we use automatic round tripping with our LSP with our localization service provider. Linguist serve. Headed by painter who just talked to you. Now. In this use case.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
We used as a set the MLW Lt features we had developed to their fullest and there are five of them. The first one is that we implemented the ITS 2.0 rules in Drupal so that Drupal could apply them to the content created there. We then developed and we implemented a plugin editor for annotation IVC editor that would allow to add local metadata. Applying the IDs rules in Drupal, we then developed and implemented a translation management tool, and that tool is really cool stuff. It allows to view and to edit the metadata without touching the original content, and it's a jQuery plugin so you can use it just in your browser. Or you could use it with any other content management system. We also developed and then implemented extensions to the translation management tool that already existed in Drupal, called the TMGMT and what we did is we enabled that tool to handle. Integrate it by distributed process is of tagging and translation, so we allowed it to start a translation process through annotation in Drupal and then send the stuff tooling well surf, get it back reinserted and make it publishable. And finally we also extended this ATM GMT module so that it could export Drupal strings, which means for instance we enabled it to export whole navigational bars. For translation now against this background, let's have a look at the very use case and let's follow us through the use case. By keeping to its work.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Slow, so first we'll have.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Look at the editor in the CMS in the clients Drupal see MSN here. What we see is the annotation editor I just talked about. So you see little icons for different types of tags that have been defined in ETS 2.0. So for instance there is do not translate, which is quite obvious. Then there's text analysis, for instance, which is this ambiguation for machine translation. Next to that we have localization note which is the same kind of thing, but for manual translation etc. We also allow to add.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Gains in the metadata, for instance company or a subsector in our case, rubbers and plastics, and then what you see here is fine.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Only the export off an XML file through the LSP to linger, surf and on the next page you can see how the thing arrives.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
At Pedro's site at linguist serve and here it's the XML, so of course you have the annotations. You have the tagging that has been done on the original content on the client side in the CNS, but on top of that graph XML metadata, like for instance storage size, which allows a translator to gauge how much work the translation will be. Now, after the translation work has been done, the whole thing returns to the client side.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
To the original CMS to Drupal is reinserted there and automatically pops up in the review process which you see here. So you have the original content and the translated content side-by-side for review. Now let me show to you two other interfaces in the CMS that are important and that we implement it in the course of MLW Lt in Drupal. One is the translation management process of.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Review and here the user can see for each element to be translated where it is in the process. So I guess this is 5 minutes, not 5 seconds, right? OK, I think we can do that so. This is very important, of course to manage complex translation process is involving huge volumes of content to be translated as there is in the V DMA and then this is.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
On the interface of the language management tool, I have been talking about. So this tool which allows you to just view and edit the metadata without touching the original content. This jQuery plugin. Now, so far what we have seen is the behind the scenes, right? Everything that's going on in the CNS and in the whole localization process. Now let's have a look at the output on the client side at the VMA. So here you see some of that.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Content in German. Here you see it.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
In French and here you see.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
It in Chinese, including the translation of the navigational bar. Now, as I promised in the beginning I wanted to show it to you. Not only that, the things work, but I want to show to you that they make money right? And as we know, time is money. So let's do the.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Ling let's have a look at the time that is needed for these translations. Process is an we see. Here 2. Different options and then the different difference between the options. One option is to do with the old way and the manual way and the other option is to do it by. They knew standardized MLW Lt process which you see here in this column. So this is the old way here. This is the difference and here what you see in this column to the left hand side. That is. The steps that a translation process has to go through from the client perspective. So you see here that the content first has to be annotated, then the sending has to prepare. The sending has to be carried out. It then has to be received again when it's translated. It has to be reinserted for the review process in the content management system and has to be published. And what you can tell from this table and given the time we have. I will not go into every detail is that we saved for a typical piece of content. Let's say a press release. In this case, 84% of the time, which was 27 out of 32 minutes and that is a lot of time and that is a lot of money.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
You have a lot of stuff to translate now. We didn't only look at this from the client point of view, but also from the LSP's point of view.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
And the following table. Of course we have gone through in detail with Pedro and his colleagues. So here in the left hand column you see. The tasks and LSP has to go through the translation process, so it's receiving, storing, etc. The data is then setting up the whole management process for all the different steps. It is then processing the whole annotation information the whole it's annotation. It's tracking a lot of administrative data, so that's fine. That's cool. One minute it's tracking. The whole administrative data and of course it's sending the translation back and here again we have time savings. In about. The same area in about the same.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Game volume of 83% and that brings me to the final conclusion and then.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
It is that standardization combined with computer aided annotation and with automatic round tripping really saves valuable resources. We saw that just for the time and money in this process it was 80% above 80%. But what I didn't mention yet is that we also reduced the time line. That is the whole thing went a lot faster and one has to mention that this case. We were working with manual translation, So what we're reduced really so I'm using Parallels. 5 seconds right that. In this case we just reduced the overhead right there project management, the annotation time, the round tripping time we didn't reduce yet the translation time. So the next step will be to integrate machine translation with this and then of course there's a lot more to be gained. If you have anymore questions about this, you can also see my colleagues outside in front of the post. I thank you very much.
