[0.0s - 29.0s]
After lunch a session I will be the session chair. I'm rich and I come from the universities on Tiana and the first talk of this session will be given by Professor Soonish memory and the title of the talk is information geometry and its applications. After to organize to invite me or very nice. Dental work start. OK, thank you. OK, cool and anyway, the title of my talk is rather general, so information geometry and its applications. But there are direct focus or something the other abstract. So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Anyway, what is the information geometry it emerges home study of the many forms of probability distribution I. I thought about the what is their natural geometrical structure included in the manhole distribution and soon is the final. We can find it remaining men. Is this something we do? Other fine mix and I will talk a little bit about that and also it can be a lot of application. I'm not mathematician in Japan. Mathematician implied pure massage. OK, I've not through mathematics Department. I'm from engineering Department, so by definition I'm not a mathematician. But anyway, I yeah I am. Very much interested in differential geometry and also the application to say systems theory or statiscal inference or neural networks and the recently something is the artificial intelligence of optimization. To apply.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So what is the motivation? Very simply, for example, we can think about Gaussian distribution have been mean. You and variance in. So the festival gumption distribution have the two dimensional structure. One parameter is immune and the other parent IDC, so it's a 2 dimensional sheet. OK, so the problem is is this. Perhaps she or come see. Maybe see. Strong. K and post. It depends on definition how we define, but what if they are natural digging so and if we have a natural definition, maybe we can have said distance between two Gaussian distribution and so on. And there was this is not an SSID Commission distribution. Any parameterized family or probability distribution, we can say the same thing.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So we need, as I mentioned, some criteria for space ride humidity. Of course it's invariant. In what sense it invariant? Think about the set of probability distribution where filter is vector parameter. So it played the role of local coordinate system. However, unity is should be invariant under coordinate transformations, so we do not rely on space recording system. Second thing is say. Play neccesary are invited. We can change ski robics so if by Ron something one to one transformation then the distribution over X changes into distribution over why, but the parameter is the same OK. In that sense, just piece of the this one should be equal equal to spare of this and it is the invariant, so the structure. Should not be dependent on Specfic scheme over and again and under this assumption it is strange enough, but we can have unique the geometric to be introduced in the space form any form or probability distributions.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
OK wow easier Doumanian metric. OK, so the thinking about the space or probability distribution where theater play a coordinate system? And if we localize many form at point a seat, so in a smaller neighbor. Of the manifold we have tangent space. And in the tangent space, the distance between two probability distribution one. Parameterized by cheetah and the other special at Bicetre Deseta. It is this something that can be media it's queer, can be measured by quadratic form. And if we change the beast, this can be transformed into diagonal form and we have you greedy and extraction. However, those the quadratic form it is, the matrix depends on position theater and and if we have some special coordinate system by which gij becomes the identity matrix everywhere, that is the Euclidean space. However, say think about the sphere. We don't have such nice coordinate city, whatever coordinate system we have. At one point we can make G identity matrix, but other points it's not identa metrics and this is remaining space.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And the second thing we think about is they see the affine connection. What they are high in connection is in the case of Mickey. We have different look at this biquadratic then here we have the local distance given by quadratic form and it will influence me approximate. However another point. We have also the local structure, however if the many for these corrupt content stays here and the tangent space here at different. So in order to recover the entire structure, we think about 2 connect those tangent space. Because they are far away, it's difficult for next directive, but this smoothly moving OK, we can something correspondence between 2000 space that is the affine connection and the technically it is drive by covariant devaluation and so on. But forget about those technicality. OK and now we think about this Joe disk. Run this definition of geode esic. The so that definition of Josh Turner, Riemannian spaces. Think about a cab connecting two points and just the media local distance. Accumulate local designs that is given by this integration. And the join this is a cab by which just this distance is mean. And I mean, think about Euclidean space. Two point OK. We have a student and it's enjoy this. And what is the characteristic of steering turn into connect two points with minimal distance? This is 1 property and the other property is stranger. I'm never changes it injection. OK, so this concept me mariti or distance. And also the stream, so don't change direction, it's coincide. The dimensional space. We usually define the money and connection such that those two concept coincide. So Jewish Dominion Juelich had these two properties, however, WHI those two concepts coincide. Yeah, any good. Read that to say it should be I under those two property should be the same thing. Impress MC so we think about the minimality of distance under St North of car, maybe different property. Then we can define a high end connection independent of the metrics. However, even though the company to be separated, it's something already. Did you meant it has something very nice enough structure? Do we have? Do you manually metric? By the way, this is given by the Fisher Information matrix. The city unique from the invariants criteria which report and then the from the invariants criterion we have affine connection which define strings, that is which divines judisch. However, it seems the unique. We have one parameter family photo supply in connection. And the gender do you have?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Convenient, so I don't want to explain duality, but given many forward we have remaining meeting it given by featuring formation metrics and do two types. Overall fine connection. It can be connected by one parameter, but nothing about only two. And technically it satisfies some condition. Would say those two connection are dueling coupled with respects to remain a metric. OK, and the special case where those two are fine connection coincide. It is a case of Riemannian geometry, so it's generalization over human ingenuity to do our space.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
And so then, what did the of high in connection and Judy? K1 Jewish very simply is given by the two probability distribution P&Q. See if we connected by linearly. T and 1 -- T. It looks like very nice, straighter. Yes it is, and it isn't me. Accord mixture, digital desk and coming from mixture connection and the other is taking rheumatism or sorry oil is missing and there under connected this antiandrogen 1 -- T and also this is exponential family. OK, and then we call this exponential Judith. Coming from exponential connection and these two are fine connection.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Think. And of course, for different, we can connect those two by one parameter, though in our head cold one. This is the explanation. Reconnection are 5 -- 1 two mixture connection and in the case of R = 0 it will be manual correction ancestor. And Indiana collection press. Haha and minus or how it is minus doing. This fixed.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The menu matic. And so Junior said, general concept, but in some important to key the space is remaining. It is not strange car however, and from that point on build 2 online connection, it's flat. Well, in the plan for that, they say we have the demon Crystal Topper, Carvajal, also sync vans, and in that case we keep a harness traccia because they trust nearly flat and also covered the remaining structure together in a long space and in such a space. We automatically have the potential function over the flat coordinate system. And also it would do a an evil space is flat, then it will do. It automatically comes up. OK, the another dual coordinate we have another potential function. And in the case of the probability distribution, this function is negative of entropy of the distribution and this function is cumulant generating function OK. And in this case we we have the divergent between two points by using those two potential. This is a similar brand divergent using the complex. I think you're gay. And of course it would do us so we can exchange. This is not submit a symmetric, so we have the dual diversion. OK.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And OK, so in many application. We used to do a different space because it has a beauty extraction and the general space. It can be curved, but in many cases it is a subspace. Embedded in the dual E flat space. Back notorious. Me OK.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So with the thing in the jewelry from space, these it has divergance and in this in our case we can prove that this is clever, clever and I got it. And also Pythagoreans theorem whole thinking about the three point PQR, and if the is mixture diverse, judisch connecting this one and the exponential Judas connecting this one and she is also known by Fisher information metric. They include check generalization of the right hand. Triangle OK, so in that case we have the Pythagoreans theorem and this is indeed the real generalization of Euclidean Pythagoreans here, because Euclidean space, the special case of during that space itself door, and in that case the potential function is just the summation of square information squared coordinate. So it's really simple case.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And also by using this fact we have projection theorem. So think about something subspace M and outside P you want to approximate P by some point. Is idea in the sense of divergent? Then the we have the point of PM easy from P to Q. Cube belonging to the M and Advent meme. OK and then it is the given by the EMA projection mixture projection that is this point and this point how we connect these two by mixture due this. This should be also that is the projection and do a guy if we want to minimize the QP. Katie interjected change the same thing hold, but in this case prediction should be E projects. But if eagle this.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Case so. Maybe? A little bit about the Villa lot of application so I just show like showing that there are something very good matter guys you want to buy. Cheap or expensive I don't know, but something and the crash Care application is statistiques. So given some of the data we want to estimate probability distribution or parameter to specify that probability distribution. OK, to give over their visions like still around distribution. So in order to obtain with the estimator, we just project this one by mixture jaundice. That the maximum likelihood estimation and maximum likelihood estimator has a very nice property and the grammar of serum and so. However, if we project and this is some carburetor, hermetia brings something inefficient. So the agency of the estimator can be measured by college. Which covers very digikam. It yeah, on the in coverage because we have two connection. OK, they each played respectably.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Sure, but I do not want into details and so the his statistical estimation, control systems theory, information optimization, belief propagation and Massey machine running and also I'm working on euro meaningful and I'm working at a medium Brain Science Institute, so I should do some research on the mathematical. Unifying so I'm working also.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
In this sense, and to say yes, optimizations theory, say linear programming or more dinner home program and semidefinite programming problem problem they use the something primal and dual method and interior. And the entire interior method, if we define potential function educating the optimal solution goes to something one of Jodeci. And even in order to go Dualdisc because we need many calculations and one step, how does step we can take by one iteration? It depends on the coverage. So the curvature defined the something efficiency of the those compliance program and also two covered previously spectate loop to define the those things.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And Virgie repository is something the OR something like those one and we are talking about the function which can impact function. So it can be realized by material perfect. It's parametric family of function. So in the function space it talks by some higher dimensional some meaningful. And alone over the past septum easy something productivity this way. And if we think about Geo metrical structure orbs or city March their path through we can see intuitively think about the capability of material pass system and the efficacy of learning and so so geometry.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
This study, and in the case of multiyear perfectum, it looks a bit mean. It increases the thing right. And.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
It's called something in the very bad situation and we have some of the midnight iPad Tractor in the dynamics of that.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
K but I and also the belief propagation we can.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Interpreting, design and so on. But no. I would direct a little bit so they are hard diverted. OK, so think about probability distribution, it and 1 dimensional array and positive submissions one, but in some cases we are taking about not taking this on restoration. That the positive measure. So AI where I always seem to be positive, but in some cases we talk about meetings. OK, well some tensor and so home and we direct to introduce some divergent measure between 2R8.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
OK, so. OK, if this underlying space is usually flat, we have the convex function and from convex function. Of course we have the Bregman divergent. OK, so the bringman divergent is the one expression of during that mean. OK, and now in these piece over for RBT distribution or more dinner the manifold we know the two concept of divergent. Why is the FBI version Pro proposed by Imre, Tisha, and the other come from the something convex function and bringman diversion and we know killed divergance be honest, both one of F divergent. And of course it comes from bring Monday. And this is this is only unique diverses which builds both graph. But now we directly extend a little bit saying that here not only care diversity, but Alpha divergent booster.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
OK, So what if Divergent say this is for busy case and if Divergent is defined by this equation where F is convex function satisfying this one. OK, and if we modify. If by using something linear function the divergences never change.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So we define the F divergences over positive measure. Put the median price, P~ formational PTI is not understandable, it any positive value. Most of the weekend. If I if divergent and if the if. Helps fight if Y0F prime line 0. OK, and then we have very nice divergent property here.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
And the other diversions? Uh, them yet convex function. If we use this function, and we have the Para di valid, where K.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Diverse in their specialties and what is our hard divergance it can be written this one under this one. OK, and in the case of an probability distribution summation P under submission, Qi is equal to K, so this is beyond just one. But positive media we should have distraction. The film, the structure, the bringman Convex function council.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
OK, a little bit about the invariants. If divergent is invariant as I measure, and in this discrete guess, what does it imply? OK, probabilities written back this way. We summarize this three into one new probability math. We summarize this one another new probability math. Martha green

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Extraction, then obviously it cost Greening divergences degree, however, and if the each group probability of P&Q are in proposal. Then we cannot. If we know the detailed structure inside one group which are not. This is P&Q because its proposal. In that case it equal from this inequality the.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
We can save the. Is if divergent is the unique land that satisfy those invariants property. And gene.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Bring one diversion does not satisfy this property. OK, this is brand new.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Divergent, and in the case of Bregman divergences, we have taking gradient. We have dual parameter and diversions can be defined in this way and differential geometry which lead this lines do a riff raff where P is the one affine coordinate system and the peace star is the durangos net system. OK, so from the geometrical dual dual infrastructure, you have automatically diverted ANO combat function divergent but from comeback function the divergent we have uniquely do. And if that's true, so it is a fancy.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
However, the in the general case, if we use the general bringman convex function, it does not satisfy invariants, and if the underlying Riemannian metric is not necessary, the Fisher information. Maybe it can be any other. So invariant specifies something the structure.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Or convex function? OK, then the other diversions case. As I mentioned already, versions is this rare convex function appear. OK.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
It appears it's secret. Times.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
I.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
OK, nice.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Keep.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
OK so instead of PIK coordinate system we use another coordinate system, this one. OK then the Pi.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
OK. This one is a convex function override. Otherwise P power, one minor, otherwise it will not come back function. Because it's really. OK, but if we have done representation, we have convex function. And the convex structure and are hard divergance automatically conduct.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
So in that sense, the Arrowhead divergent belongs to both the.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Bringman diversion, and she Sally if divergent. Under so it's still keeps in there.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
OK, so the time is coming and.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
OK and OK. So yesterday there was a discussion about the geometric of positive definite matrix. OK, from my point of view, what is the nice geometry to be introduced to the set to the point if it matrix? OK this one. OK, and what I hear is the Gaussian distribution where P is covariance matrix. The problem the probability structure we jumped in during fragment. OK, then what is the potential function is Atkins case? It look determinant P. This is a potential structure and also from quantum information. People are talking about something. The coupon Tom Dougherty's they used risky in that case. This is known. I'm not convex function of P Sir, but we use something. The representation of P in other and engineer, but can think about the Lambda. Easy onion value. All the positive datamatics P it's invariant under also not transformation. And to think about some convex function of formation. If this is just if you recall you we have three SP. If this is related here we have log determinant and if we introduce our faster action. We have something I'll have seen where I find parameter is not pink. OK, and so and all of this family defined. Do any frat invariant structure so the manifold of positive ITI metric? OK, however the. 3 million metric differ neutrophil and also a fine Courtney not just here but the Steve by respective Dualdisc Dora do Disk Pythagoreans theorem. So we can we can hang with all of those things, had chips. Nice property. OK, so.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
He directed conquer.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
OK, and so the arm class structure looks really interesting. Becaused we know the this is mean value now today also.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
They don't talk about the main bearing, but if we think about the generalized mean body, so taking number a, we use every representation. And if you want to run function and taking average over a few representation and back, then if the. Jules, if me is scared flee, it should be our after action. OK, I thought I found this, but the June then explain to me this is our very crash. Could have overheard Erica, I didn't but here still restrict ipea and also I'm already of probabilities. We have our family of probability distribution. And also in the Bayesian inference and Beijing average we can have the Alpha ability pre some important rule. So I think they are faster action. Please very important rule in the not only probability distribution but some other. Objects or having the geometric abstract thinking medium? Are there any questions? OK so I have a question. OK, you have mentioned the different fields of applications of this beautiful theory or is for you the main application currently of this this work? This works the main the main field of application. What is this field? Is it statistics or four? For example? I'm now currently thinking about the. New neuro you'll notice spikes. OK, so then you only hire and settings spy spikes in your random and so the probability distribution of the huge number of neurons. It's very high dimensional probability distributions and by experiment one Commedia firing rate. Under maybe paranoid combination of it through Bellevue. Interventions are the seat reprised congregation before conditions, so in order to understand the rule of higher generate, paralyzed and interaction trip to rise in the brain, we need to think about more. The Torrentspy and Thierry representing those countries and information geometry can decompose those quantities in some sense or sooner. But the tools to increase the honesty. OK, so if we need to use this door, so this is one thing I'm thinking about the application. There is. There is also another field in which, for example these are. Famines are very important, it's economix actually yes, because these are famines. In Economix are known, they bear various names depending on the field. Sometimes they are production functions, utility functions and it turns out that this might be also very interesting for econonmic studies I think yeah. Any other questions? OK, sorry. So I think yesterday we had a good discussion about symmetrical kullback Leiber, OK, and most of the application area is making use of that Ann. Is it true to say that symmetrical Kullback Leibler is also F divergance because? Sweet dreams. I did literally pushing cover. Yes, it should be done with becauses it satisfy invariant. Yeah, so it should be. It should be diversions, right? And in that case we have underlying geometry. Yes OK. Which is F geometry. If yes, can you just say how is it? Geometry is different from the jury flat spaces. And so OK. The signature is well also. We have the Fisher information and also our own connection that is a theme that the point in it is not to do a live rat. OK, so the symmetrized cases diversion is not Canonical diversive or the. What can we can divergent do any front speed? Through underking space, I believe it's not to do anything, but we have to do our connection. We respect Fisher information matrix. Thank you. Thank you, so let's thank our speaker. Once again, thank you, thank you.
