You can pick and choose OK, so I want to talk about the theoretical foundations of clustering and I. So I think we all know that that clustering is very widely widely used for exploratory data analysis. And surprisingly, in spite of this heavy use of clustering for many years. And then we define a clustering function as a function that takes such input, which is a pair of a domain and distance. And what we wish to be able to define is to find some properties that distinguish clustering functions from functions which are not clustering functions. There is some kind of catch. So I want to prove to prove to you that no clustering can satisfy all those three requirements simultaneously. So what I would like, in an ideal theory, is to have two types of requirements. One type is axioms and actions should be requirements that any clustering method satisfies the access. And the other requirement is even more difficult to formalize where I wanted any function that is clearly not a clustering will fail to satisfy at least one of the actions, because I could give you a trivial actions, I can tell you my axioms is the actual what you should satisfy is the requirement that 1 + 1 = 2. Now the axioms should be satisfied by all clustering paradigms. Other properties distinguish between different clustering methods and. Then having difficulty here is that we don't have a clear definition of what is not a clustering, I mean. Why we don't have a theory of clustering, and I think the first one is that clustering is not well defined. We could see how well we're doing in clustering. If A&B are in the same cluster, is the old distance times this constant Lambda? It was just example OK, but there is no semantic beyond no no. But I'm saying is that on over binary pixels when you want to say those are in an edge it's more than just the pairwise distances. OK, center can be not inside of your pointless. You cluster independent samples, you compare the resulting clusterings and meaningful clustering should not change much for money independent sample to another. So it's a very natural idea and replication has been investigating many application of clustering. So now we assume because we want to take random samples, we assume that there is that your data is some probability distribution. So for example, if my data is the uniform distribution over the circle and then any clustering algorithm they'll take will be unstable, because if I just want to partition it into two sets and I take a random sample, it will probably give me this petition. Another problem of instability could be that depending on the algorithm, if this is my data, it's the uniform distribution over 2 rings. So my data it can also help me choose the number of clusters. Just to demonstrate it is not well defined problem. That's the way it's being used as a model selection tool. We looked at two different algorithms, basic algorithms, center based like K means and linkage based algorithms and we look at very simple sets of data. Those two types of algorithms, these types of data, we could prove that in all those cases, stability correctly detects the right algorithm and the right number of clusters. And then I'm doing her single linkage clustering and my parameter is when do I stop merging points? We could formally we formally define the notion of stability. We could argue that's a necessary property of any clustering method. We set to prove you know, to put the final nail into this structure to prove that stability really does what you want because we have all the possible evidence. And then. I'm into a theoreme, so the bottom line of our analysis, which lasted more than a year. We know. It is stable on a data set D if and only if there is a unique minimizer to the function you are trying to optimize. And one approach that is very appealing is that somatic approach you try to postulate some clustering axioms. What should clustering satisfy, and ideally every clustering approach to satisfy these axioms and every function which is not a clustering should fail. Another approach is to try to say OK, so clustering is not well defined. There is some discrepancy between what should happen and what happens in practice. There is a very important take home message here and that is that syntactic datasets can be misleading. And in some cases, the distinction between syntactic and synthetic and real data is really crucial here. On our way to proving, I mean we have still holds in our proof that if a K if with parameter K, we output the output clustering has boundaries that pass through considerably denser regions then the output of the clustering that I get with K prime. Clearly better than the other in terms of the boundaries passing through dense through sparse regions. Is this very striking difference between what we see on synthetic data and what happens in real data? Yes. And this is very noisy data and she was just using stability to detect what is the correct number of clusters. Another approach that is widely addressed in the literature is consider only a restricted set of distributions. Projection based clustering like. What is a good clustering? If you don't know what's a good clustering, you can't answer the question how much running time do you need and how much space do you need?