This place is also in a grid plot. I will now introduce and motivate why we have to use those multivariate features. Univariate features, so our task is to distinguish target from non target epox or trials. The best discrimination is probably can be gained from the P3 component, which has its focus on the electrode set and. So. And you see that there is a difference. Indeed, the amplitude is higher. So the strategy would be, for example to put a threshold between the two means here and say everything. So introduce another measure of separability. Which is the area under the RC curve? And this area under the curve is. Yeah, this is an area under the curve, so here you would just count the number of of squares and this also gives a good measure of separation. So you could use this matrix also to select the most discriminative univariate feature and say maybe six years of area with a with a higher score. Show you that one should use multivariate features and how and in order to provide the background for this multivariate features. The reason that we can we can measure this activity on this carpet at these these special kinds is pyramidal cells orientated in parallel. Here we want to measure it and it's transmitted here by so called volume conduction. So therefore we will get the signal from from one source with almost the same intensity at different electrodes. So with this as a background, we can all discuss how to proceed from the univariate feature to multivariate features. The P3 peak time point, for example. But you can use multiple time points or intervals. And this is a cognitive task. But if we take a multivariate feature and we take into account also what we measure its channels it. Don't use this channel all set, but we use multiple time points. But if you have a temporal filter that somehow weights different time points, you could can also get rid of the drift and savior classification. And P of T know now would be the time locked activity, the ERP and the residual activities called here are of K and the model or the simplifying assumption here for earpieces. At the time locked activity the ERP is the same in every trial so therefore I didn't put the index K here. And. Distribution here is a Gaussian distribution with mean zero. If we subtract the P from the X, we only. So this is a basic office standard ERP analysis we average across trials and then. But first I should give an overview of what kind of occurrences of neural activity we measure there in the noninvasive. And it's the most critical part. These are induced oscillations, for example, steady state visual evoked potentials. And for Gaussian distributions, or these, if you look from above, these are ellipse. We can do the eigenvalue decomposition, which means we get another matrix V which is also normal matrix and holds the eigenvectors. And the diagonal matrix D such that we can represent the Matrix Sigma as a product V times ditrans be transpose. So don't don't worry, assist, looks complicated to you. To find a classifier, the classifier is a mapping just from from the space where we have some features. So from this vectors to say labels one and two, which corresponds to targets and non targets. So from the continuous signals we first cut out the box from each epoch, we calculate the feature vector. So assume we only know the means of the two distributions. Operation lines that that goes perpendicular to this connection. And this is a very simple classification scheme that you can also do in high dimensions, not only in two. Then we would classify a Class 2 in this case and if it's. Originate from from different regions in the brain. So, but can we expect for Fiji this nearest simple near century classifier to perform very well, so as so these are distributions that we could expect to see in e.g. So optimal means here that its hits minimum risk of miss classification for samples that come from the same distributions. The first assumption is the features of all classes are Gaussian distributed. The second is that the Gaussian distributions all have the same covariance matrix and that we have these first two things we have already discussed to be true for LP's, and the third is set to true class distributions are known so that we have this new one and Sigma and U2 and Sigma is the same. OK, I based on the model, I already motivated the two covariance matrices of the two classes should be the same because they only depend on the background data. Calculated the covariance matrices from the two classes targets and non targets and these typographies visualize this eigenvectors which are the vectors of this. So here I show you results classification validation based on spatial features. So this is the first step. The various in this time interval and then like have a special feature. And which is worse than the result for the best? The third assumption was a true distributions are known, which says we we know the true means and the covariance matrix. Then there's a systematical bias. The large eigenvalues of this covariance matrix are too large and small eigenvalues are too small. So as we have described the bias we need to make the estimate the ellipse more spherical. So here's our empirical one and the spherical. 1 minus, we multiply the empirical covariance matrix and with gamma. So one can calculate that this so this is called shrunk covariance matrix. You can calculate its shrunk covariance matrix has assign same eigenvectors. As a empirical one. We just change the eigenvalues. Here's an empirical covariance matrix that has is estimate problems, But here we use this shrunk covariance matrix. So the same concept works in the visual domain, so here we have frequently green dots presented and interspersed with some red squares. The same means, so here we use empirical covariance matrix and LDA. So that means this amount of shrinkage somehow is related to your belief in the estimation of the noise. To understand what is what is going on here with the classification. So we can say that linear classifier is a spatial filter, so literally this is only true if he uses spatial features. So if you have from one time point. So now assume our task is to design A spatial filter that we want to apply to the data X to extract, say, source one. Terms here. That it's that it's not orthogonal. And now there's a specific attention task for the participant's attention, for example. To attend, for example the Red Square. Get this information from the from the e.g. Similar sequence, and it's only by the attention of the participant makes it discrimination between targets and non targets. Is a source from the visual area that makes interference. Depends. Not of the components that we are extracting, also P3, but we would make an interpretation of of the interfering sources. There's a tradeoff. 2 uses multivariate features and machine learning techniques like this shrinkage, LDA classifier. So this gives increased sensitivity and will lead to better performance. So keep keep in mind that you should be if you try to make interpretations, you should be. Don't treat this as a black box, but be careful. Therefore, this leads to a simple design of a spell offer BCI where you can write letters just with attention measured brain activities. He did they think he or she detected? Here's a nontarget epoch's because they are strongly overlapping, so you do the first presentation to have fast communication that is clear.