Perhaps you know I did left, right, left and I got a good meal. OK, and or instead of a good bad we can measure this right? Obviously a question that's going to arise, and that's what we're going to be talking about in the second half is where is my algorithm. Is it? OK, So what can I say about the result? OK then what we saw there was something called an automaton. In formal language theory, props for not the restaurant talk, but in a more minutes another type of talk well will be wanting to do something, learn something richer than automaton. I could use a neural networks. Will that bring me to a restaurant? It's much more complex than that, so a bit of cheap philosophy will just tell us that you know the old Greeks used to say that the whole is more than the sum of all parts and the crystal theory is that it's different than there are some of all parts. But then there are some. There's certain cases where the strings, unless you know exactly what you're looking for right from the word, go well, you're going to have to look at the entire string. Strings are sequences of symbols taken from that alphabet? So the outline there applying well, have an introductory example, just to see what are the questions we're asking ourselves in the field of grammatical inference, and through this easy example well, variety of problems that can be can be looked into will then try and see what is grammatical inference, what makes the task specific. And after that's where we will stop to go and have coffee, and then will come and return and look at algorithms, and that will be the second half. That are generated by formal grammars. In this case, it's what we call a deterministic finite state automaton. What is on the other hand, the context free grammars? Which are these things called derivation trees? So Chomsky, Chomsky, Chomsky came out with something called the Chomsky hierarchy, which is very important. So the first level 0. Level 0, Logically, son decidable. So how do we learn Legler languages? Here's a very simple example. The second important problem for learning is the winner of the equivalence. OK, and why is this important? Anyhow, they are probabilistic finite state automata. So what's nice with grammars? Well, it gives us something to say about how a string belongs to a language. There's real rule behind it, so this enters in that line of ideas we want intelligible rules. So good about my grammars well, what's not so good about grammars is that they are really horrible objects. But I mean you can encode a lot of things with them, parity functions, parity functions are used when people want to try and prove that as soon as there's noise, you can't learn OK, parity functions is well of functions where you decide that. I mean, that makes the task very difficult and in practice is going to be a problem, so we'll talk about that later when we get into sort of future trends and directions and open questions. So one of those objects we've seen before that has or could have produced a given set of strings, or perhaps of something a little bit more powerful, which may be a trees terms or even graphs. So the field has got. 2 grand for others which would be inductive inference on one side and pattern recognition on the other. People in computational linguistics are very interested in learning grammars and manipulating grammars. OK, so we said the data, the data strings, trees, terms and graphs. We're going to extract features from the string in a very intelligent wave, possibly a massive amount of structure of features. Over classification over numeric. So you're in some sort of a city that you never been to before, and you have to eat in sort of different places called restaurants. There's a lot of problems with the grammatical inference approach here. So, specificities hardness of the task, just what's what makes the task as a little bit different from what we've seen up to now. So the question is going to be to be able to state something once you've come up with an algorithm which I said, here's what we're going to do after the break. Well, typical questions I mean, does this algorithm work? Do I need extra bias? I mean saying I'm looking for a language I could be looking for a Turing machine, let's you know, so that's no bias tool or hardly no bias at all. Basically, I've gotten right theory about things. How do you validate things where you can download mirror, validate things by using a typical benchmarks you can build your own benchmarks. And in the case we're interested in hearing grammatical inference, there are not that many benchmarks around. You can solve a real problem, so there are many problems for strings we've seen them, but when you starting to have these enormous automata with, I don't know how many states you don't really know what you've been doing. Games do theory, so when you want to say OK I want to do better than just say I've done well in practice. So I choose, I decide. What's going to happen in the limit, and what we imagine the date is given bit by bit. So identification in the limit is not the most fantastic thing and we will want to add on a lot of things to it. So somehow or ever through these paths, you're going to hope to have discovered something like this, which represents roughly the situation of the town you're in, while Popsicle look more like something like. Well, the first question we've got is hard enough that I get hold of the data, and there's a lot of different ways of getting hold of the data. Working with a teacher so it's the issue of teaching and learning is going to be there. If I've actually got the names of the restaurants are the names of the streets.