[0.0s - 29.0s]
Invite. OK, so so the title. The title shows that we're going to be talking about things that have been mentioned before. We did talk about grammars we said Oh well, they they can be the possibility of looking for generative devices for looking for grammars where, anyhow, that's what we're going to be doing today. Talk this, since it's the last talk when two things are going to happen the 1st.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
As I was told, Oh yes, but you do understand the people who might want to do tourism. And so I'm going to talk so so I actually put inside the talk some pictures of this is Mount Etna, right of Sicily, so you can do tourism and follow my talk at the same time. The second thing I've done is also realized that the afternoon talks after really hard difficult talks in the morning where very difficult to follow. If there were technical, so I think there's going to be hardly know equations. It's going to be about a first half about ideas. What are the clear the ideas of the field and the second half about algorithms, so I won't really be proving the algorithms. I won't be giving any bounds. It will mean what it will certainly mean that you know that things are kept in this field on a very intuitive. Level, I mean they're all mathematics involved, I just won't be giving you them. I'll be giving some ideas, but the mathematics are going to be more like combinatorics. Things to do with strings and well, don't get the false idea that things are too easy. I mean yes no. I mean if I mention continuous easy, that's nice. That'll mean that you have understood what I'm talking about. But then do realize that there are things happening afterwards. So this talk has been prepared thanks to long list of people with who have collaborated in giving tutorials before who have been working.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
With and, the names of many of them are here. So the outline there applying well, have an introductory example, just to see what are the questions we're asking ourselves in the field of grammatical inference, and through this easy example well, variety of problems that can be can be looked into will then try and see what is grammatical inference, what makes the task specific. And and and there's probably after the Third Point, so there's also going to be where those rules, specificity of theory and practices into practical field. Is it a theoretical field? And after that's where we will stop to go and have coffee, and then will come and return and look at algorithms, and that will be the second half. Really just some algorithms for different subtasks of the main task. OK.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Again, Mount at now. So how do we learn Legler languages? Here's a very simple example. I know we've got another running example, and I've changed it yet.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Today, so you should recognize that ask the particular task we're interested in. So you're in some sort of a city that you never been to before, and you have to eat in sort of different places called restaurants. So you've got a certain number of restaurants you can go to, and by going to these restaurants probably well going up and down Hills, turning left and right where you want to finish off by having some rough idea of what the city is looking like. The day.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Better for the task is there for some paths you've taken to go to the restaurants you practice gone up, down, left, right. I mean, it's simplified example having left and right, but perhaps actually causes problems but but I mean you know you remembered that basically yesterday you went to the restaurant because we went up and then you turn right and then you went down. Then you went down again and then you got the restaurant. So what's going to happen while building a map of the town is going to consistent. Perhaps building something?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Like this? OK, so you've got some states which are these blue things or means. Restaurant An means, not restaurant. And then you've got actions that are going to make you move from one state to another state. Perhaps you know you starting over there. I think one of these things like you're starting over here and you can go up a Hill to reach. Sorry. Now you can turn right when you get out and you go to a restaurant. Or you can go down or even left. So there's two alternatives. And then you get to this error state and so on. So somehow or ever through these paths, you're going to hope to have discovered something like this, which represents roughly the situation of the town you're in, while Popsicle look more like something like.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This right, because it's gonna be a little bit more complex. And even then, while you're hoping that it will look like something like this, OK? Obviously, I mean this is really a toy example and I haven't run an algorithm here to actually get this, but it is part of those problems people have been trying to look into when they've been doing grammatical inference. OK, so the Rs again or my restaurants and the ends than on restaurants and more and the starting point could be either here or you could also think if you were really thinking in terms of states that you've got sinks state you know the sync status when you end in and you never get out of, which could perhaps be the Marsala room. OK.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So now then, just to argue the different questions we can, we can have when we're talking about this. Well, the first question we've got is hard enough that I get hold of the data, and there's a lot of different ways of getting hold of the data. First, one could be just random walks. You know you're randomly walking around the town and you say look, this is a restaurant. This is nice or you want to randomly walking and this is not a restaurant, so you just notating if you've got some randomized function which is allowing you to get hold of the data. Um, more logical way is probably following. Send someone now. There's someone could be of different varieties you could actually take somebody knowledgeable who actually knows the way to the restaurant so he's not only that basis, perhaps even trying to help you learn the map. So to learn the map, he's probably not going to bring you to the same restaurant all the time. My concentrate on 1st restaurant bring you to my different routes and then go to another restaurant and so on. So so this is a situation we know in machine learning like probably. Working with a teacher so it's the issue of teaching and learning is going to be there. You may have the country, have somebody who's trying to lose you are certainly not going to try that. He's on the dad, so he's trying to avoid restaurants or something like that. So in this case, what I'm saying behind this is that this person is get providing you with the worst possible examples. Well, that again is the situation we go through in machine learning where to be able to prove bounds. We're going to just decide that were not given the best examples to learn from. And the last situation here is the one of exploring which comes to a situation or bit related to what Nicola was talking about yesterday, which is active. Learning OK in active learning you can actually take decisions about what you're doing. You're going to create your own examples. You're going to interrogate somehow the town your end to be able to get the information. OK.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Another question is yes, but I mean this information restaurant non restaurant is and we can tell just on this example is going to provide us with a lengthy pattern to learn. I mean not pattern in that sense, but it's going to take us a long time to learn. Thanks for that because it's it's not a very rich information. If I've actually got the names of the restaurants are the names of the streets. I mean I'm clearly going to learn much quicker and that's going to be important also. So I mean if we got more than just two outputs, yes no. It makes the problem all the all the more simpler. And then there's another alternative, which is one that you will find very often, which is that here I was saying, OK, if I do this, I get to a restaurant, and if I do that I get to a non restaurant, a situation, often in learning languages is we're only given strings from the language. So we're learning what you call learning from text. I'm here. I'm going through quite a large volume of literature and and different concepts. I mean, I just think there on this example of the restaurants we do understand why it's going to be more difficult. I mean, if I only know how to get to restaurants, I may get the false impression of whatever I do. I will be getting to a restaurant, which is what we call over generalization. OK. Um?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Now there's another interesting one, which is where prompts instead of going to a restaurant. I'm reaching some other information. I'll be getting an information about just the quality of the meal. Perhaps you know I did left, right, left and I got a good meal. But then when I say I it, maybe somebody else did left, right, left and he got a bad meal. OK, and or instead of a good bad we can measure this right? We can go get from discrete to numerical. Now this is something that is we haven't talked about it all. Surprisingly enough in the whole workshop. I'm not going to talk about it, but it's something that is really becoming increasingly important is what you call. And prompt partially observable Markov decision process is which corresponds to. Well, Markov Markov type of objects where we are able to control the actions on these inside the walks in a certain way, and we're receiving some numerical gain through what we've done. So it's about the same saying look if I do left, right and left. Well, I got good meal, and if I did left left left, I got a bad meal. Well, you know, trying to learn models from that is also a crucial question. Not for restaurants, but for for important ever ever issues. In reinforcement learning.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Obviously a question that's going to arise, and that's what we're going to be talking about in the second half is where is my algorithm. I mean, how did I get that to? How do I get my map? I mean, who gave it to me? Why? Why did I learn it? Is it? Was it easy to fool to learn right? And perhaps perhaps I wouldn't use the same algorithm if I'm exploring. And if I'm just giving random data and that we can just see that obviously in active learning we've got specific algorithms, while one very famous one, bye bye Dana Angluin. An in passive learning where I'm just giving the data while we're given the other algorithms and we've got to divide the other typical type of algorithmic techniques to be able to solve our problem.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Um now Wichita theoretical bit. I mean, can I say something about the results? I mean, once I've got this map, well, how good is it? How can I measure how good it is? Do I want to go to the ideas that John Shore Taylor was was talking about, and do I want to sort of try summer old algorithm, something and then perhaps measure up a story? Or can I? Or can I do something intelligent during the learning process, which would perhaps say, OK? Well, um. I've actually, you know, my learning process was good enough. Perhaps not to not have to measure afterward, but I had some warranties inside the learning process itself, which is probably what we're going to do. OK, So what can I say about the result? And we if I can't see anything about the result because these I may not be able to. The only thing I can say is where I go out and if I get a good meal, well then perhaps. Perhaps I've got, I've got something there, but if I can't see anything about the result, can I perhaps change the idea? I'll say something about the algorithm instead of about the result. That's going to be a specificity of grammatical inference.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
OK then what we saw there was something called an automaton. OK, the automaton finite state automaton where those are basic objects. In formal language theory, props for not the restaurant talk, but in a more minutes another type of talk well will be wanting to do something, learn something richer than automaton. There's something richer can be, well, the next step up in the Chomsky hierarchy context free grammar. I mean, I'd go into some, see Hurricane in a minute, a transducer right which translates one thing into another. The tree automaton, now the tree automata, are going to be very useful if in self learning from just basic strings, which is what I've been hinting, I was wanting to do here. Well, I'll be wanting to learn from more complex structures from trees, right. We saw this morning about graphs. There are people now starting to look at, trying to learn graph grammars with great difficulties because those are really heavily complex objects. Um on the.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Injury we've been seeing that you know in all the talks, even the talks about learning from strings while people were trying to learn. Perhaps things that were, let's say, less complicated, and I don't know if that's right or that's not fair, saying that, but you know, sort of without at least these are recursive rules inside them. And perhaps that's just as good. I mean, perhaps I could learn my map or learn something that would help me understand where the restaurants are through using some of the string algorithms we've been seeing in the different talks. Of this week, I could perhaps just try and find simple patterns on strings, or I could perhaps extracting features from my random walks or from my walks and from these features, then well run an SVM which which are so successful. I could use a neural networks. We also see some of those right that perhaps would be able to. OK, I wouldn't have a map of the city, but I would be able to use this with the neural network by saying look this is what I intend to do tomorrow. I intend to go up, down and left. Will that bring me to a restaurant? That's what's going to happen. So the answer is going to be yes, or the answer is going to be no. So perhaps I'm interested in that instead of being interested in having the general picture. OK, these are all.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
The questions where where ideas were interested in and my claim is a little bit to say that what we've just seen in the last slide, well is what I press 1 to avoid. So to quote, I had to go into the web to see exactly who said what about this, and it's not examine. It's much more complex than that, so a bit of cheap philosophy will just tell us that you know the old Greeks used to say that the whole is more than the sum of all parts and the crystal theory is that it's different than there are some of all parts. When I'm trying to say here is that this would apply both to the data onto the object itself, and that's what we're perhaps interested in in, let's say, the field of grammatically in France, and perhaps I would join more talks in the line of which citing told as the first day. So yes, we are trying to find, you know, we don't want to take this string and break it into little bits and think that we're going to learn from the little bits of the string we want the whole string to learn from, and the same time we don't want small rules, nice rules, we need the whole picture, the grammar of the automaton.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So that's what we're. That's what we're going to try and do, and that's what the that's going to be the task grossly off grammatical inference is not the only technique you're trying to attack that, but you know, take the thing as a whole. The objects as a whole, and at the same time returns something that explains globally things. Obviously, it's I don't know how can I say a much more difficult, much more ambitious task. Which means that also it's going to be much easier to fail an much easier not to get good results in that field. I'm not going to claim that this is necessarily necessary in all cases. There may be a variety of applications where where it's perfectly alright to just look at strings little bit by little bit, and that sounds that sounds fair enough. But then there are some. You take palindromes, you take things where you need to look at both the beginning and the end of the string of the whole time. There's certain cases where the strings, unless you know exactly what you're looking for right from the word, go well, you're going to have to look at the entire string.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK, so here's where I have to do like everybody. Question to the audience. So I'm going to. I'm going to need a bit logically a formal language theory, so goes from sort of red here to green here. Green here would mean that you notice the mistake and the name should some Virgin apostolical slide. Unread here while means why should? The theory be formal or something like that. So where would I mean, do people know, let's say, the Chomsky hierarchy reasonably well? Yes, yes. Oh OK. Do people who knows nothing about formal language theory? I don't know enough. OK, well I'll go into here then. Right, so I should be able to get a pointer Vala. So we go onto a crash course in formal language.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Theory very quickly. Um? So just those are the. I mean this is going to be very quick, so symbols are taken from an alphabet Sigma.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
We've seen that we've seen strings as supposing the strings are well known. Strings are sequences of symbols taken from that alphabet? OK, easy, what's that?

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Language language is when you take a set of strings or if you prefer it's a subset of the set of all strings. Easy language languages or all that. OK, up to there where.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Well, languages just anything, and we've seen ideas of languages. Languages could be something that contains this specific pattern or that does not contain this specific pattern. But then there are some specific languages who've had crucial importance becausw of. Let's say that the work of Chomsky and the fact that in computer formal computer science well, people have shown that those were important for programming languages, and so all sorts of things. So these are the ones that are recognized by some sort of automata, or because there's a duality there. That are generated by formal grammars. So what's the language that is recognized by a finite state automaton, whether.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Backstage automaton is just that. It's got a finite number of states. It's got the letters of the alphabet running around it. It's got one initial state. It can have more than one. In this case, I've got just one, and it's got, then edges that go from one state to another state, and that have got labels. In this case, it's what we call a deterministic finite state automaton. Certain states have got to sort of double little round thing here. They are what we are calling final states. That means that when we finish reading or string. In that state, then, we say that the string is accepted. So for instance, if I take the string ABA.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Me where I can read it like this ABAB it, reaches the final state so the string belongs to language, so those allow is very easy and very nicely to have. You have languages. OK, there can be little automata of four states like these are the ones we find in the usual textbooks or the automata that people are manipulated in manipulating in computational linguistics that may have a million or a million and a half states.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
What is on the other hand, the context free grammars? So this is not recognizing device you notice that was recognizing device because you entered the string and it said yes. I accept I don't accept now this is going to be a generative device which what is going to do is going to create strings. So it creates strings from a thing called where again the alphabet another alphabet variables with one special symbol and some rules and it works as follows less.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Locate on one special grammar well known to the theoreticians, which is called the Dick Grammar or the bracket grammar. So we just enter at the beginning. Well again 2 letters noptic bracket and a closing bracket, one nonterminal. The rules are well. I take a symbol and I can rewrite it as this thing or the symbol can rewrite as Lambda, which is another variant. We so epsilon the other day. It's another way of counter calling things the empty string.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So what's nice about this? Remember we have a nice picture 2 minutes ago for the automaton. Well, here we've got nice pictures, but not for the language itself, but for elements of the language. Which are these things called derivation trees? So if I look at this means I've started with S. I've derived it into a SBS using the first rule, then this S is derived again into a SBS using this other rule here and then different tests have derived in Lambda and if I look at the border here AA. BB so I've got a ABB which is a string in the language so I've got well so well bracketed string this bracket [would go with this closing bracket and this one with this one. OK so this is just basic basic, a formal language theory, what's nice if anything is just to remember that we've got nice graphical objects and I'll come back to that. And these objects are trees. They will be important also because we're thinking haha. You know, in today's world where in computer science we are seeing a lot of data, which is trees. Take XML, take well yes, so I will take XML right? We have other things. I don't have. Examples are going to come in second, but I mean just to have a quick thought. Well structure is is important. We've got structured objects, so being able to manipulate structured object may be of interest. So.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So Chomsky, Chomsky, Chomsky came out with something called the Chomsky hierarchy, which is very important. Becausw well, because of the well, because of the amount of effort is being put into it. His focus was obviously on natural language processing on our natural language for children, and saying, well, what sort of rules can we use to define the language. And he came up with a hierarchy, saying, basically that there were four different levels. So the first level 0. No restriction on the grammar level one is context sensitive. Grammars come into a back into it as second context free, which we've just seen the one with with this Dick language in it and regular the ones of the automata. An example view of the hierarchy.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Is just seeing just to see what's inside each level while Level 0 corresponds to absolutely everything we used to manipulate in computer science, i.e. Any language that can be recognized by a Turing machine. Clearly that is not going to be our goal. Today we're not going to try and learn those. We leave those two Gregory citing. I mean, this seems a bit harder, so level one is is interesting. This is what you call context sensitive and there's starting to be interesting work on this because they are important. Typical examples of languages inside here when I'm saying typically it means. It doesn't, just these it's combinations of these. These are what make this class little bit harder than this one, so A&BNCN. So as many days as visa see, so you have not just not just counting two objects with your counting three objects ANB MCN DM. That's the possibility of sort of counting two things, not in a bracketed way. You know the ace goes with the seas and the bees will go with the DS. And this is the square language which is here, which is also the language of. This is known not to be context free. So the context free level is A&BN the language of yes. Many ages, bees, and all days before the bees, the bracket language or the Dick languages here and the regular languages. Anything that can be expressed through an automaton, or for those that don't really know automata, every time you're using grep, well that's what's happening. Your manipulating your regular expression and the language of this is behind. It is going to be again a regular language. OK, so this is the Chomsky hierarchy, and when we thinking of formal languages, well, that's what we're really thinking about. I mean, there there's other definitions come out with that. You know that stem slightly away from this, but 90% of formal language theory is going to be inside the Chomsky hierarchy, which may be a mistake, but that's the way it is, and there are good arguments apart from that for doing that. What can I say about it? We're going to see it.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Now, yes, so there are two important problems when you're thinking about languages. I think citing said a little word about it, but he wasn't very interested in let's say what's attractable and what's not. So the membership problem is knowing if a word string belongs to a language or not OK, now that's going to be very important, because if you're learning, you know if you're learning a language and then you can't really even use the language because you can't even know if a string belongs or not. Well, that's problematic. Or even if you're trying to think well that my target is a language. And I can't really even interrogate the target by saying, oh, is this in the language? Well, that's only a problem anyhow. Level 0, Logically, son decidable. Remember, we're talking about Turing machines in all their generality, level one is decidable only just meaning by that that there's no polynomial algorithm to do this. Level 2 is polynomial. Why? Because we're talking about the basic compiling problem every time you're trying to build a parser, OK, well your former every time when people used to build passes in the good old days. Well, they used to be here. They were used to be trying to working on context free grammars and they had to build passes for that. And there's famous algorithms like the coumarin kizami algorithm that can do this in polynomial time, so you can find out if a string belongs or not. And the Level 3 is nice and easy case, which is an automaton. So finding a string, finding out if a string is recognized or not by an automaton is easy.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
The second important problem for learning is the winner of the equivalence. This time you're given two different devices of the same class, and you're trying to find out if they do the same thing. Equivalent means that the language is equal. OK, the equivalence is on the on the grammars, let's say, and the quality is going to be on the languages, so finding out of two assuring machines are equivalent. Well, Needless to say that that isn't decidable, but the bad news is that this is going to keep on being decidable up to here. OK, and why is this important? Because basically you gotta think that when you're learning something in a certain way, you're solving some sort of an equivalence problem. OK, suppose that I can learn grammars of Class A well, then you know if I've got two candidates, grammars grammar, one, grammar, two, I could probably find some strings from grammar one. Find some strange programmer to try and learn, or one side for one try and learn on the other. And then just see if I obtained the same object so it would be a bit annoying to you know to be able to solve somehow. This sort of decision equivalence decision problem for things that would be understandable. OK, in the case where we've got automata, it is polynomial. It's very easy to it's very easy to check if two deterministic automata or equivalent is not true if they are not deterministic. Just to end my crash course on 4.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
The language theory just mentioned two objects by one object that has has its importance. They have who talks about the HMM. So I think we have somebody talking about Hmm's at one point or another little bit. Anyhow, there's a variant, I mean, Hmm's or probabilistic objects. In formal language theory, while the equivalent object has been devised and there are the clear equivalences, you can prove that you can go from one to the other. Anyhow, they are probabilistic finite state automata. Sometimes also called itself probabilistic, stochastic, not real difference in between the two. So what happens there? You've again got initial an initial state. You again start passing, meaning you take a string and you read through it. OK, and the only difference is that you have got probabilities. Well at least numbers attached to the edges. OK, so what's going to happen? Well, what's going to happen is that sorry? Well. OK this is a non deterministic one. Why? Because when you're here you can tell you can do a here or here. And this is a determining.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Take one because this time there's no problem of determinism. I'm not going to talk too much about this, even if it's probably there are really interest to the community to all sorts of people to be able to learn these objects because they are there more suited for for tasks or of all sorts, the probabilities make them a bit more resistant, robust to noise, and things like that. I mean, if you start here, you go AB and say OK, yes, how do you do well to find out the probability or the weight of a string inside the language? While you pass the string, you multiply the probabilities along the path and then you obtain the score and you say, well, that's the weight of the string inside the path. So I mean that makes them. That's it. More better fitted for for quite a lot of applications, but I won't really talk about them because. A big cause because because because the application, sorry the algorithms, tend to be quite close to the algorithms I'll be talking about. Let's say the tests that we're going to use during the algorithms that are going to change. So if we understand the algorithms in the deterministic case, then we're usually the other ones. How are nice adaptations probabilistic Apple adaptations of the deterministic cases. OK.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
So what's nice with grammars? In my view, nice with grammars is that they normally give compact representations of languages. They manipulate recursivity. Now the fact that I'm got problems with saying this word is becausw. Then they were not even sure it's very important. OK, Recursivity is what you learn when you know when you're learning programming and you want to try and write a factorial in a very short way, or or Hanoi or whatever, and you think, oh, look, wow, you know I've discovered that I can. I can do things so much nicer thanks to this these recursive rules. But then, at the end of the day. When nobody can really say if it's that necessary. I mean, we've also always gotta an alternative way away out. A way to avoid using this and how grammars and automata or one way where we are learning recursive rules. The rules depend one of each other. When I think the rules, you can see well the different rules in the grammar and I don't know a palindrome of string is a palindrome if it starts and finishes with the same letter, and if you take away the 1st letter and the last letter, then what you've got inside it is a palindrome. That's recursive. Defining things like that. Obviously you can also define it in a different way, but I mean defining it like that. That's recursive, and it's, well, it's something we we think is good. There are cases where it's nice to learn that sort of rule, but isn't that necessary? I'm not even sure. What else do you say? Well, it gives us something to say about how a string belongs to a language. It doesn't just say you know this belongs a bit. My like my case, you know it's going to give you the map of the city. It's not going to just say use. Give me a path and I'll tell you if that brings you are doesn't bring you to where we want to, so it gives you some knowledge, some some something intelligible. There are quite a few fields who are feeling this important in machine learning to come out with intelligible explanations. OK, if you go and see the guy who's insuring you and he says I refuse to insure you and you say why? Well, because I've pressed on this button and the network has said that your we can't cover you. I mean, you're not going to be very happy about that. You need an explanation. OK, and an explanation you can understand. So this goes in a certain way towards that direction. There's a lot of work on personalization in this moment where machine learning is used to try and learn your tastes of what music you're meant to like. What websites are meant to visit again? If it just says, go on, try this and you don't know why it's personalized like that. It's really going to be a problem. People are a bit scared that you know the publicity is just going to end well. We recommend this site because we want to sell it to you when the recommender system is meant to be so telling you to go to this site becausw. There's real rule behind it, so this enters in that line of ideas we want intelligible rules. Um, it goes with intelligible. The fact of this graphical representations. It's important to see things. I mean having long lists of rules isn't always good enough. Now. I did mention earlier on that we've got starting to have automata off 1 million, 500,000 or 2 million states. So this last argument of saying look, it's nice to have a graphical representation of an automaton with 2 million states. I mean falls apart. That is not going to be helpful, but in other cases it is nice to have. We have representations of things that you can actually look at, and then you know look at from different points of view and again what we were saying. A map is a map. What's nice about a map is seeing it as a whole, seeing the paths of the map isn't going to be good enough. What's new.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
So good about my grammars well, what's not so good about grammars is that they are really horrible objects. I mean, they're nice when you Start learning them at University level and then when you start really pushing your. Yeah, you know getting your fingers dirty when you find out that even though the lowest level I'm Level 3 of the Chomsky hierarchy, lowest lowest incense, the most simple level contains a lot of horrible objects. I mean sat, which is the typical NP difficult problem? Well, that you can encode. Various ways by automata. OK, so very easy. Problems appear to be immediately NP NP difficult, so not much hope if not, say no hope to be able to solve in polynomial time all the all the different Boolean functions can be also encoded into automata, which means that there's been some lovely different proofs by people in informal learning theory. A community to basically. Prove that. I mean you can if you could learn automata really well. I mean with all the good learning properties inside it you could solve more or less everything in a certain way to sort of completeness proof of them because they are so powerful things they don't look that powerful. But I mean you can encode a lot of things with them, parity functions, parity functions are used when people want to try and prove that as soon as there's noise, you can't learn OK, parity functions is well of functions where you decide that. A certain number of pre specified bits have to sum up to an even number. OK, so you specify some positions, but as soon as you put some noise inside that it becomes a real mess. So what else do we have? Oh yes. And then the second thing which is going to be a problem. An enormous problem is is noise. I mean noisy data is something in the case of strings where you just perhaps you. You know you may take a string and you just change the knob it somewhere and not letter in the string, which would sounds fair because you haven't. You picked up the strings from somewhere and there may be a mistake. Well, as soon as you're putting noise inside the strings. You're just jumping in and out of the language like nobody's business, and that's that's really a problem, becausw, because we don't like that. I mean, nobody likes that the this little example here is again, a regular language. This is a language of all strings that has got an even number of days and an even number of bees that can be. You can easily construct a four state automata automaton that recognizes this language. An even number of days and an even number of these, but you know you just changed a bit inside that and you jump out of the language, changed another bit to jump back in, and so on. So I mean, there's no. I mean, that makes the task very difficult and in practice is going to be a problem, so we'll talk about that later when we get into sort of future trends and directions and open questions. But clearly the Chomsky hierarchy is. Is not very good at dealing with noise and this noise I'm talking about, which is switching a letter over. It's the sort of thing we've heard. I mean, other people talk about it. It's reasonable. It corresponds in a way to even a simplified part of the edit distance. OK, where you just just looking at substitutions. The other operations aren't aren't any better.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
OK. So some specifications of the task. So if we'd have to describe the task roughly, it would be something like saying that we are trying to find a or the grammar or automaton. So one of those objects we've seen before that has or could have produced a given set of strings, or perhaps of something a little bit more powerful, which may be a trees terms or even graphs. OK, some some structured objects. So the specificities are on one side on what we're learning, which are automata and grammars, and on the other side from what we're learning, which are strings or otherwise structured objects.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Now the field. The field I'm going to describe a little bit becausw. It also allows us to understand where the ideas come from. So the field has got. 2 grand for others which would be inductive inference on one side and pattern recognition on the other. About inductive inference, we heard a little bit said the first day. I mean the name of Ray Solomonoff was was well was given, and yes, people were interested in what where, where they were interested in saying, OK 2468 ten 12 what comes next? So you just trying to well inductively learn from a series what is going to be the next number, which also means from a series trying deduct what is just the next. What is the function underlying? The series, because if you can guess one, you usually can guess the other. I mean it would be difficult to so those are work early work. I mean in the in the 50s there was a lot of work done here. It has continued since, but I mean it has continued in something called very often algorithmic learning theory. OK, so people are still working on these questions. But recognition on the other hand, is much more practical field. I mean, it's a field where people have been very early interested in solving world problems and inside this field, and Edwin Hancock told you talked about it this morning, there's a subfield called something like syntactic and structural or structural and syntactic pattern bacteria and pattern recognition, where the idea has been to try and find patterns which would be something a little bit more complex and would contain. Well, well, this is structure inside them. It's been for awhile, hopeful field. I wouldn't say a successful field. It was a hopeful field. And then, as in many things you know, the statistics are my innocent way took over and people thought that they could solve everything through statistics. So it was left on the side for awhile. But people were interested here in pattern recognition in thinking that perhaps, for example, when we were excited about, you know. Recognizing digits for example for Postal codes on envelopes. So you have to, you know, had to make a difference between the two of the three to five, and there would be handwritten. So there might be different handwritings. So people thought, OK, well, perhaps we can imagine that the two is. There is a grammar for the two or an automaton for the two, or a language of twos, of all possible choose, and that we can describe the language of all possible tools, and then the language of all possible threes. And somehow then deduce if we got a new digit, if it belongs to the language of the twos or the language of the threes. The two, well, you could probably devise it as align the theory of the shape or something like that. So there were people who did that, but I mean they were clearly as a better methods around the did better, even if the results were never never very bad in that. So again, this is just wanted Mark with little difference, but there was a big discussion again by shouting about the difference or the non difference between the mathematicians and and other people from physics. Well for me this is clearly a field where you've seen a lot of people in mathematics and here there's been a lot of people in physics and it makes it makes things rather curious. For example, in this side the people here are people who who in physics have been very interested in. We know how to implement arrays, they're very good at arrays and loops with four and things like that. But when we come to things like trees like you know, structural objects like that trees and graphs, it's much harder because I mean we're talking about structures that are not that sort of thing. That in, say, the physics usual textbooks you find. So so there they've been needing to work with mathematicians. OK, and then here there's another field which is out there. So if these are the sort of grandparents where I mean here, there's a second fear feel of machine learning, which where there has been a lot of work in the in the 80s about grammatical inference and learning grammars with big names, and that worked in this field and obtain some very nice results. I'm thinking for some people like Dana Angluin. And Pitt and people like that OK. And then if I go a bit further so here, here's grammatical inference and you won't find the words of grammatical fragrance in just one field. You're going to find it in many fields because I mean, really, then it becomes a question of applications. People in computational linguistics are very interested in learning grammars and manipulating grammars. People in computational biology is also done things, and we'll see some examples in the second in this moment. Web technologies, because of the importance of XML. Well, these techniques are there. If I'm showing this picture is it's an? If this picture is so messy it's also to insist on the fact that the literature of the field is all over the place. OK, there isn't one big thread of literature you're going to find things in all these places. Makes it a little bit more little.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Harder to get into. OK, so we said the data, the data strings, trees, terms and graphs. More like structural objects and as far as I was wanting to mention 2 seconds ago the same sort of gap as in programming in between. When you're using tables and arrays and then you go on to data structures, so it's a bit the same idea. I mean, we've seen a lot of things to do with very nice well with tables with the Rays. And here we're going to talk about something a little bit more complex.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
I did want to mention again because I mean I change log these slides these days because I was listening and see on how they're saying this again. So I think I should come back to it and say something about it. So there are obviously alternatives when you are wanting to learn grammatical objects or you wanting to learn from strings, and we've seen them and one of the main ones is to say, OK, we take the whole string. We're going to extract features from the string in a very intelligent wave, possibly a massive amount of structure of features. And then we're going to use some very good method. Over classification over numeric. With Newman over this numerical space and and see what we can learn with that, and I'm not going to claim because I mean I'm incapable of doing it. That you know, grammatical inference does better than this. I mean, in this moment, in most applications you're going to be working with Windows an if you're working with Windows, well, just extracting the information directly and then doing just learning with a standard method can work just as well. But we've got hopes of doing better.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
So let's have some examples of strings just to see if the sort of problems that the people have been working on, well, 11 example this this one I like because I had to give a talk in in Scotland this this summer. I thought there was one of the most beautiful insults I've had ever seen and trans automatic translation. Automatic translation is a task which. Well, at one moment in automatic translations people started. I mean, there's still people trying to understand you're not meant to read this bit, right? I mean, if you read this, you're not going to get it. This is the machine will read. OK, so in automatic translation. People started using linguists asking linguists to help them and say OK, can you sort of prepare me a really big benchmark of number of rules prevailed not match my thing about it? Can you prepare find all the rules of how you translate French into English? And so the linguist would work and then come out with enormous amount of things that would have problems with robustness with noise etc etc. And so then well, logically machine learning techniques have come up and there's been a very active field in called machine translation. There's actually a very nice Journal in machine translation. With either purely statistical techniques, techniques that will also use a bit of of things in. That have to do with some rules. And then there are things like learning transducers like my automata, but instead of just having one alphabet, you got two alphabets with Alphabet to go in Delaware to come out and people have been using this with enormous France uses and not necessarily with bear with bad results. I mean the state of the art for statistical techniques is still better, but there is quite a variety of people working on automatic translation with learning transducers. Times.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Series you can think of time series and then work from the time series to be able to try and learn well the rule behind it as something like an automaton. Clearly, when you're working on a time series, one of the first problems you're going to have is to go from this time, not from the discrete world to the numerical word like I was mentioning couple of minutes ago, but exactly the opposite. So you're going to start with the numerical world, and you've got a discretized an good techniques of discretisation. For strings, I mean to my knowledge don't exist. Any other techniques on which we've been working lately on what you call it on eye tracking, where there's been a competition in Pascal, you feel about Pascal, this for the network thing, and the data is just the eye flicking on the on the screen and you've got to decide what's important and what's not important on that screen, and you've got enormous matching numerical data. We've simplified all the numerical data into just strings of up, down, left, right, something like that, and we obtain state of the art results. OK, but the discretisation there was very poor so we were hoping that perhaps we could come up with some better ideas. But you can do things like that.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
OK biology well biology people have looked. There's been not work right from the 80s and trying to look for grammars inside biological sequences. Clearly this is an example shown given by some Japanese friends to really prove their point and say right. It's clear that we should be looking for grammars because here you can see that you know you can see the derivation tree, so it's it's obviously there is a grammar hidden inside this. Practically speaking, there's. There's a lot of problems with the grammatical inference approach here. The Japanese did manage to get quite a lot of money out of their government to look into that. I mean, they did a lot of progress in grammatical inference. Thanks to thanks to being getting support in biology to do these things. Maybe how it's reasonable to think, OK, the sequence is there. Can we use these techniques? There's going to be an added problem when you're using. When you're looking into biology is that you need fast algorithms. You can't. You can't have cubic algorithms if you're talking about extremely long strings.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
More biological strings. Now this is an interesting one, OK?

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Music music can be seen as a language and you can indeed take a musical piece and interpret it as a string, and then learn. We've done that and we've done it. And this is just this is not the example of examples are going to be here. This is exciting, but so you can do what you can take. Save them a number of pieces from some author or from some style, enter those pieces into into a learning program. And get an automaton now for it to be interesting. You want the automaton to have probabilities. Why? So that it doesn't just come out with the same tune all the time, so then you sort of get this automaton and you can use it in two ways. You can use it both by feeding in a new tune and saying is this back or not? And you can also say, well, can you now please play some back? So I'm going to play some. I'm not sure what I will play again. Let's go like this and see if it works. You can hear things. Can you hear? So this is this is this is an automaton playing a tune. OK. No doubt, sorry. This is another automaton. This is meant to be Scott Joplin by eternal automaton automaton. Anyhow, the the recognition rates of the automata were very good. OK, as a recognition of the when the playing the music they went that good because I mean we got much worse pieces than these. These are meant to be the good examples, but the idea was nice and. And has led to two particle. Well quite a few. A few good things. One of the nice things about it was you remember I was saying that. One of the nice things of some some graphical model is that you can actually see see what you've learned and you can look at it when you get a big automaton, well, you can't see much. In this case you could hear what you learned. This is very interesting to be learning. We tried learning, for example, some some Italian. Actually, I think he was Sicilian composer. Oh, what's his name? Oh Scarlatti, and we we tried learning him and we got we got something that in recognition rate was very very good. But then when we listened it was absolute rubbish. And why was he doing well was because he'd actually the automaton. Has she seen well scene had actually learned the fact that the number of notes that was being used was absolutely enormous. This is Chapel be be all over the place to while he was playing and so that allowed him to distinguish Scotty music from somebody else. Music OK, but when it came to record when it came to composing, it wasn't any good at all, OK? See so we gone. So entries welltris there's all sorts.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Trees this is a tree. This is true.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Also from my Scottish expedition, and these are more in.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Gordon trees, like their trees of XML, so there are there are.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Lots of trees now around very nicely structured objects and it is clear that trying to learn something from this sort of object is a really important. The current state of the art, the Member, the best techniques to be able to do. To construct automatic construction of rappers in for HTML and XML pages or based on grammatical inference. The idea what is what the idea is that I haven't got the application. Alas, here is, you've got the. You got a web page on on that web page you see the phone number, so you know you just underline the phone number saying oh look, this is a phone number I'm interested in. And then on another page you've got another phone number, so you underline it so you like. Now that on the next page where it's suddenly disappears, the phone number automatically. OK, so it's not a question of what the position is on the screen. Bigger the position of the shrink and really depends on how you're moving the screen. And then there is something that really the the HTML page doesn't know, but it is a question of where it is. Probably somewhere on one of these elements, so from web page is also building a wrapper is going to be that is going to be building some sort of a device that allows you in a systematic way afterwards to be able to use it on new unseen pages and to be able to well find the information quickly that you're looking for. And the best techniques in this moment or those using grammatical inference that will not work this time on strings, but on trees. People working computation.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
In linguistics, they were trees. They've got a little past trees. They've got a little trees like this. They've got things called tree grams that is taken with them along time to sort of build an from which they are trying to build what is called language models. Language models is the idea that we would like to have a model of the English English language, so as when a new sentence arrives and we more less interpreted it, we can say, well, yes, that looks like English or that doesn't look like English or that looks more like English than that. OK, and that's a very important problem because I mean in all applications of speech. In automatic translation and in well in anything to do with Jenny in a general way to with computational linguistics, the automatic building of of these language models is important, so. Techniques Veronica.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
This is all used in the industries. OK, you can do some things called logic programming, so that's another field in machine learning, which perhaps hasn't been talked about. It hasn't been talked about at all during these. This week, so the idea is that you're given data which are fact San. From these facts, what you're going to try and find is programs. So there are people working with just programs and very, let's say, imperative languages are programming languages, but the most popular way to deal with this is learning what you call. What learning logic programming programs so programs in a language like? A prologue? So this is an example of something we did. We had some data saying that some individuals were colorblind, and perhaps some other individuals were not color blind and we were just trying to learn the rules of genetic rule behind that, knowing that the genetic rule is a recursive rule. So you reach this is instead of giving you the data I'm giving you directly the result so you reached watch. You reach the fact that an individual would be colorblind if he was much P. Levin everyone. What P Levin is. So what's appeal Evan person? Well, it's the person whose mother is P4. OK, what's a P4 for a woman? Well, it's a woman whose father? Who has a father? Who is P3P3 being colorblind? OK, so a person is colorblind if his mother has a father colorblind? OK, that's an easy a little bit more interesting is the second rule that was learned, which was the recursive rule, which is saying that that could actually skip generations. So another could be P4, meaning the Motherwell was is the one who's got the gene and is going to transmit the jeans for the mothers P4 provided. Well, she is P4, and she has a mother who is P4. OK, so that's that's why I was saying, OK. Specificities of grammatical inference is to be able to try and learn this sort of thing.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
OK. So, specificities hardness of the task, just what's what makes the task as a little bit different from what we've seen up to now. So the question is going to be to be able to state something once you've come up with an algorithm which I said, here's what we're going to do after the break. Well, once I've done that question is what can I say about the algorithm? What can I say about what I've done so the questions are hungry? Well, typical questions I mean, does this algorithm work? I've written algorithm, they use it any good? How can I say this is very good? What's going to prove this is good? Second question is, well, suppose now I've got it and I've got a new task. Have I got enough data? Remember, language is something with an infinite amount of data because it's. Languages contain typically in an infinite number of strings. Do I need extra bias? I mean saying I'm looking for a language I could be looking for a Turing machine, let's you know, so that's no bias tool or hardly no bias at all. But perhaps you know I need to reduce things and say OK, we're pretty much just look for really small possibility of a language I want to be able to compare algorithms. I mean this algorithm a better than algorithm B. Does it work better? Does it need less data? Is it going to get me anywhere? Basically, I've gotten right theory about things. Is this problem might be easier than another? That's when you know when you get to the conclusion that you can't do something. Well. At least you're hoping to be able to get a negative reduction result saying well how my problem was just as hard as that other problem that we already didn't know how to. How to solve, so I mean, I can't get any further.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
So how can I also try and how can I try and solve all these questions so the different ways of usual ways? I mean, I thought somebody would come up earlier than the me with the questions of validation, but I mean allow me just to go through very quickly. How do you validate things where you can download mirror, validate things by using a typical benchmarks you can build your own benchmarks. You can then solve real problems and you can try and prove things. So what's?

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Well admitted benchmarks. Well, that's something that machine learning has done has been done anymore. Miss Mount. You know it's using UCI, so you just use choose inside UCI. Whatever benchmarks your algorithm is going to work well on and say look, we're doing really well. Things were better than state of the art. It's a problem. OK, we have got that problem in machine learning, it's using benchmarks is today becoming? I mean it's good. It's important to be able to do better than the rest of the field on well known benchmarks, but but you gotta be careful about it. And in the case we're interested in hearing grammatical inference, there are not that many benchmarks around.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
So you can build your own base folks, so when you don't know because nobody's dressed that typical problem where you're going to have to build your own. But of course, then, well, there's other little problems too.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
Addressed. You can solve a real problem, so there are many problems for strings we've seen them, but when you starting to have these enormous automata with, I don't know how many states you don't really know what you've been doing. And then of course you're going to have to.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Games do theory, so when you want to say OK I want to do better than just say I've done well in practice. Well, you need to do theory. I mean there's nothing new in what I've said. I mean, you've been hearing more than your share of theory all week, OK, but I mean it's a bit to say that in this task of grammatical inference, at least as much as in any other, I mean there's going to be theory associated coming out with a brilliant idea is not going to be good enough. If I'm saying that. It's also because it is a field where because of the difficulty of finding which is the right paper. Because there's so many algorithms and things around, comparing things is impossible. So I mean, there's not mean good exhaustive comparison of algorithms. So if you want to know what to use, you're going to have to my little see if there's at least some theoretical properties associated. So what is the theory here? When theory here I'm going to go through something which is important and it's at the same time well known, but it's worth being careful about becausw because it's going to be because this is going to be specifically non probabilistic. There's no statistics. Again, just like what we heard. Yes they will; Then there was lots of mathematics but there's not gonna be any statistics and it's the idea that is behind language learning. So school identification limit. So you given obviously, are you giving or your chosen a class of languages. You don't say. OK, well I'm thinking of you know the Level 3 of the shumsky of the shop, see hierarchy. So why am I thinking of this? Why we're thinking of this becausw learning without identifying is something that is very. Will defined OK. It's obviously we come back to the half day, it's it's. It's obviously you can think right? We can't. You know identification means you know that there's a target there and that I'm aiming to find the target and that's in a lot of cases in the usual normal applicative case I don't have a target, but then the problem is that if I try and define things without this, I've got a problem. So I want to define things at least with the target. So I've got some class of languages inside this language. I want something I'm interested in. OK languages, or you know in theory to the abstract objects. So I need something concrete to talk about the languages. These are grammars. So for example and then this is going to be tricky bits, which is that you know the regular expressions aren't the same as deterministic finite automata and learning 1 instead of the other one will make quite a lot of difference. So I choose, I decide. OK, I'm going to be really interested. I want deterministic finite element, because those are the ones that I'm really interested. So you've got something called the naming function, which is the normal operation which just allows me to say that well, the grammars I've put there. They've been there because they are trying to name languages, and each grammar corresponds to one language OK. So on the other hand, we're given.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Presentations water presentations were lots of data, so. This won't suit exactly what we called active learning. OK, well, I'm going to choose my examples, but in all the other cases where I don't choose the examples of presentation is just some data that is arriving. There's a lot of variance here. I mean, the data can be strings of the language, it can be some more information like saying OK, this string is in the language in this string it's not. It could even be some subsequence is single. These are subsequences of the string language, just X you know sort of, but they arrive bit by bit, WHI. Because in practice you can say that's not true. In practice, the data is not arrived bit by bit. In practice, I'm given the data, but to be able to study what's going to happen on the long term. What's going to happen in the limit, and what we imagine the date is given bit by bit. OK, so the data is given bit by bit by some process called the presentation. And logically, the presentation is their intended to tell me something about the language. I mean there is a relationship, unclear, non, not necessarily computably defined. There won't be defined computably biggest L is the language anyhow, which is to say OK yields eels. Mens means. This presentations corresponds to this language. What am I asking about yields where what I'm asking is the fact that if on the long run, meaning in the infinite while if two functions have the same image, while then yields should be the same. OK, so if I'm given by two different devices, strings of language and at the end becomes the same set of strings, I'm not expecting to learn two different things. I want to learn the same thing. OK, let's go back to the grammars and this time seeing what's the learning about whether learning about is to try and this time get the presentation or get the initial segments of the presentations. You know the strings as they arrive, little by little, and derive a grammar. OK so I'm giving a first example, then a second example in a third example and little by little I'm trying to learn grammar and what I want is the picture to close nicely, meaning that somewhere on the long term this somewhere means at a specific rank. I would like the language I have learned to correspond to what was intended. OK, so if I manage to do this I will just say that I have learned no statistics, no epsilons, no deltas at this point. Just the idea of saying that I would like to, I hope to at some point in the Farfetch future, find something and easier was this. OK and easy.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Picture is the following is just saying that I am given then the strings one after the other or the strings of the informations one after the other and one after the other. I am busy. We're building an increasing sequence of hypothesis which are themselves grammars and I'm just hoping that at some point right there exists a rank here. And sorry an as from this rank everything is going to be the same. I'm never going to change my mind and not only that, but obviously. But what I have learned here is correct. OK. What does this mean? Now this means that I am learning. I haven't got any warranty OK and this is. This is where people are going to protest and say OK, there's no point to this because after you know after 10,000 examples, after 10,000 strings, you're going to say this is your result and what warranty do you have? None OK, I don't have any warranty. I can't have a guarantee that is one of the tricky bits of the whole theory. That's where I'll be wanting to add perhaps something else, but the only thing that's going to happen is that I'm going to be able to blame the data, not the algorithm. What's that mean? That means that if after 1000 examples I've come up with hypothesis an somebody says, well, what can you say about it when I would say look, I don't know this. This is this as far as I'm concerned is correct. This is what I believe is going to be the solution. And if I'm wrong it's not because of my algorithm is because I didn't have enough data. So in a certain way, well, that's not very, you know, that's that's an easy way out. It's not. It's not. There's a lot of other ways you can do worse. You can do much worse by not being able to say that. If you can't say that I can blame the data, not the algorithm, then you've introduced an added bias. You've put in something else saying that you know that while perhaps you've been looking somewhere else, you know where the light is. You know the story of looking where the money where the light is, and you haven't said to everybody that we were looking was really over there and there's a whole Patch of the class that you're meant to be looking into that you're not really looking into. OK. So identification in the limit is not the most fantastic thing and we will want to add on a lot of things to it. We may want to add on a sort of near identification to say we're close enough and we certainly want to add on something to do with polynomial learning. Saying well how long have I taken to reach my solution? Or how long do either or my taking to build this hypothesis? Or and that we've seen also another another talk. How many times am I changing? My model, my hypothesis from here to here, all these are different ways of measuring the how well, how fast am I learning if the class can be learned etc etc etc. OK, and just before going for coffee. I'm sorry Apple store.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Person here, I mean this was to answer to him. So this is a story of. This is another one from Dunkirk for heavy smokers and this is the story of somebody called it Smiley. Again, he presents to be writing the biography of somebody called Permina, who is somebody who is meant to have written the Quixote. The hotel they don't hotel amantia, but he's not meant to write another Quixote. No, that would be easy that he had to write El Quijote, leaky hotel, meaning by that this author called Minner was writing. What have you had himself learn Spanish? She's a French writer. He learn Spanish and he become a very devout Catholic because mathematics was also Catholic, and he actually studied what you know what was happening in those times. I don't even know if you didn't cut his arm off to be exactly like the mantis. And then he started writing and he was hoping to, well, little by little be able to write alcohol to exactly. And so then the whole thing of more cases to study different extracts of alcohol tea by Cervantes, Anilca hotel by men, which is exactly the same, obviously. But what was interesting was here to reach this bit here, which is minnaar himself saying that his task of writing alky hotties is obviously very, very difficult. Essentially right to be able to do it. No, sorry, my make my impressed with what I'm trying to do. Not isn't that difficult. In fact, to be able to do it all I have to do is be immortal. OK, so which is true in identification of immortal right immortality? So if he's immortal, well, by just you know if you just look at all the texts that can be written there at one point or another. This guy is obviously going to write in karate. What's interesting is that I thought of 1 moment that marker was wrong. But Midwest area my best area means that this would be a sufficient condition, but in fact it's not. He doesn't say it's a necessary condition, and it's not a necessary condition. Makes an alternative to being immortal. Is of having an unbounded lifespan. In which case the identification in the limit system works also, but it doesn't say in identification. In the limit that we're going to identify right out there, you know at infinite time just that unbounded time. OK, well you can think about this once we have coffee. And we see I think. So let me check, yeah, and we go onto algorithmic ideas.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
After the coffee break. So it's one second five to four. And what do we say? Quote About 420 minutes. See. 2020 because I'm fine. OK.
