I'm a PhD student, Queen Mary University of London and the Computational Creativity Lab. I'd like to make today, and that is that the right approach to computational creativity is to try and build systems with the kind of what appeared to be the kind of internal states that an observer might consider to be akin to mental representations. Because they're physically grounded and then turn around and say, and the fact that the computer is being creative proves that there can't be a mental world. Then we've actually just used our on premise to prove our point, and that is not good in philosophy. The novelty value and unexpectedness or surprising this. Grant is suggested that creativity should be considered in terms of behavior exhibited by natural and artificial systems, which would be deemed creative if exhibited by humans and the term I'd really like to focus on here is behavior. Two different axes of evaluation kind of emerge out of this, because we're talking about whether or not these systems can do something that reminds us of something that humans do. That's because symbol manipulating machines, which is what computers are, can only in the end be considered in terms of input and output. Anything that we can say about a computer is external. It says I felt sad, so I did this thing. So what I'd like to suggest is that perhaps the reductionist have gone a little too far in their dismissiveness of the Cartesian worldview. So I think that maybe while we can say that in reality, there's probably no such thing as a mental representation. So Bowden has categorized computational creativity in terms of a traversal of space of. Creative artifacts and at the highest level, we have transformative creativity. We can have a search space that we can transform research. And this makes me think that the appropriate approach would be. The first approach is vector space models. Vector space models are vector spaces or high dimensional structures that correspond to concepts. So going back to the early days of modern Western philosophy, Descartes in the mid 17th century suggested that there is an unresolvable divide between mind and matter. Particles is the stuff of the physical world representations, or the units the basic primitive entities of the mental world. Is the deep belief network. These are extremely dense, extremely deep neural networks. Has argued that when you look at deep belief networks on as you move up, the kind of ladder of layers in the network, you can actually see things like representations emerging so you can see things like. And most recently, this idea wasn't even aware of this when I wrote my papers, so this is some kind of new information even for those of you who read it, michaelov and his friends at Google have put have actually been building vectors using deep belief networks, and they've shown that when you build this kind of vector, you get this lovely linguistic compositionality where you can actually take the vector representing concepts like King men and women do a little math. They don't do this by saying looking is this a woman is this. What it is, when a man reason it, he does nothing else but conceive a sum total from addition of parcels. And in fact, today a fairly prominent cognitive scientist feels comfortable saying even the word Cartesian is often used as a term of abuse. And there are a couple of problems, in particular with representationalism, that I'd like to highlight one is the homunculus problem. Comes out as thought, but that doesn't really make sense because you can't have an infinite regression of little people inside you. The second problem is the binding problem, and this is the question of how these mental representations actually get put together, and even Descartes was kind of aware of this one here we know that we received the world. And it's clear that the binding problem is somehow resolved in the course of cognition, because we do in fact have this experience of the world is being full of stuff full of objects that we can have opinions about and reason about and make decisions about. And. This this has been described by Vic & in particular is an active meaning. And in a similar vein, Grant Wiggins has proposed that creativity is a property that emerges out of this kind of anticipation of the environment. And I'd like to say that creativity is the process of meaning making, so this is really the most basic level. We make things that seem to be mental representations. So I'm going to suggest that computers are simple manipulating machines. The user roles to perform operations on one representations, but these representations are physically grounded. So it seems to me that a positive result for computational creativity is necessarily a negative result for Cartesian representations.