So it's useful to turn to tools from the physical and mathematical Sciences that have themselves been developed to confront complexity in other disciplines, to understand other disciplines. They've of course evolved over millions of years to solve important computational problems, so it can be really useful also to turn to fields like machine learning and the engineering Sciences, both as a source of inspiration as to what kinds of problems neural systems might be solving. So what is semantic cognition? OK, so semantic cognition relates to our ability to learn, recognize, comprehend and produce inferences about objects and properties in the external world. And so our ability to do this likely relies on our ability to form internal representations of categories in the world, right? Find curvature so there's a well known notion of of Gaussian or extrinsic curvature, which is at any point on the manifold. That in an N dimensional space, the tangent vector and acceleration vectors span a 2 dimensional subspace, and there's a unique circle called the osculating circle that has the same tangent and acceleration vectors. The curve at that point. So what you have is you have a leaky integrator of curvature. They attenuate for any curvature in the input manifold, but added new curvature due to the non linearity. OK, so just to just to show you this is the match between theory and experiment for curvature for length. And this grassmannian length, the solid lines are theory. So if we have, say, a linear classifier in the top layer, the decision boundary within the top layer is a linear hyperplane. And we get a subset of principle curvatures, right? Its curvature grows exponentially with depth. Yeah, even exponentially curved manifolds can be flattened to hyperplanes even in random deep networks. There are more things in heaven and Earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy. There are more things in the brain that are dreamt of in the techniques that we use right now. We have sort of these inchoate theories, but maybe if we have an army of grad students and postdocs trying to. So for example, looking time studies, can an infant distinguish between two categories of objects and at what age? I'll show you examples of that. You know there's also property verification task and Canary move. Can it's saying there's different response latency's and so the response latency tells you that there are certain central and peripheral properties. OK, the other thing is you know, the other thing is nested loop architectures. And then finally you have visual awareness and consciousness that can then determine your actions. The other thing, the other thing where there's more things in heaven and earth is synapsin's. So if you ask a theorist or a deep learning specialist, what is a synapse from neuron item, you're on J. And what happens is the memory capacity of the system grows as the square root of the number of synapses, but it grows linearly in the complexity of the internal dynamics of the synapse. So it's much better to have a small number of complex synapses in this scenario than a large number of simple synapses. So he plotted the internal representations in a geometry preserving way as a function of developmental time. So actually the retina is already a deep neural network. With the Clendenin lab, we're trying to unravel the way that the fly C and so now we can do or the clandestine lab at Stanford can do whole brain optical imaging in the family so they can record optically many, many neurons in the fly and we can just use systems identification methods to discover how the fly, for example, detects motion. Each time the mouse encounters each time the mouse is spent further and further time away from a landmark or a boundary, and each time it hits the boundary, the spike pattern becomes more coherent. We can. They either through genetic perturbations or pharmacological perturbations, they make synapses more plastic, and you get mixed responses. Questions what are the mathematical principles underlying the hierarchical self organization of internal representations in this network? Why are some properties learn quicker than others and how can we explain changing patterns of inductive generalization for this talk? Once you have the singular value decomposition of the input output covariance matrix, you can write down an analytical formula for the learning dynamics. In particular, the product of the weights from layer one to two and layer two to three as a function of time. For certain initial conditions, behaves like. The time dependent SVD. Of the input output covariance matrix, where the time dependent coefficients start from small random initial conditions. And then the the coefficients or the time dependent single values. It turns out the strength of statistical structure is determined by the singular value of an input output covariance matrix, and the time is just one over the singular value. The classical scenario would be it was incredibly difficult to take measurements, so we would take we would decide carefully ahead of time which variables were relevant to a problem so that the number of variables we simultaneously measure is the dimensionality of the data, and then we do as many, many repeated experiments as possible for those variables and we get low dimensional data or many points living in a low dimensional space, and it was really easy to understand. Without that biological sample safe, it's an animal that gets tired. We've been actually thinking about how much data do you need to learn particular problems by using a nice analogy between machine learning and statistical physics where maximizing the log likelihood is like minimizing an energy function. The parameters are like thermal the parameters in the model you're trying to learn are like thermal degrees of freedom, and the data is the data. There's a saddle point here where the dynamics and weight space gets attracted to the saddle point along the stable manifold, but then gets repulsed along the unstable manifold. OK, so now the next question is what does all this have to do with the hierarchical differentiation of concepts? So can we, can we move beyond specific datasets to get general principles of what happens when a neural network is exposed to hierarchical structure? OK, so you generate features through this branching diffusion process down a tree. But but basically what happens is the singular values are decreasing function of the hierarchy level. Any network must exhibit progressive differentiation of concepts on any data set generated by this class of hierarchical diffusion processes. Basically the network learns input output modes in a time that's one over the singular value, and the singular values of broader hierarchical distinctions are larger than those of finer hierarchical distinctions, and the input output modes are singular. And a surprise was actually that only the 2nd order statistics of this hierarchical structure data are sufficient to drive this nonlinear hierarchical differentiation process on weight space. So they make these illusory correlations and they overgeneralized you know. But we can come up with analytical explanations for why that happens in these networks, and a whole bunch of stuff I just wanted to focus on category coherence which relates to Erin's Question. So I think now is a really interesting time where there can be a new type of alliance between theoretical neuroscience and theoretical slash, applied machine learning and the motivation for the alliance. OK, but the natural question is what does it mean to understand how a brain or in neural circuit works? Approximal version of that is well, what if we can understand how the connectivity and dynamics of a neural circuit gives rise to some emergent behavior? So another facet of it is how did neural activity and synaptic learning rules conspire to self organize useful connectivity that subserves behavior? OK, physicists, when they've traditionally looked at this, have often tried to understand the nature of dynamics and random networks. How will we understand it, OK? So what is a category and what makes it coherent? So simple proposal is a category is a subset of objects sharing a subset of features, right? This is like a very simple barebone definition of a category, right? So kind of a Gordian knot then, is how do you learn a category? But in order to do that you need to know which features are important for the category. And we've already talked about the notion of coherent categories like the set of all things that are dogs and incoherent categories, a set of all things that are blue. Anyway, so you see a sequence of items overtime, so you see a stream of experience where you see a subset of objects with a subset of features and you have to construct a current representation over it over that stream of experience. As it turned out that this is a, this is a snapshot of how the internal representation Scott learned from this data set. So these each point is an object, so there's 1000 objects. Matrix and you show that once you re permute the features and objects you find out that there were actually a preponderance of of objects with a subset of features, so there was a big category of small category in a smaller category, right? We'd like to have a theory for how. What is the feature vector for that thing? So then it discovers in. Samples OK of this, so this is kind of going to be the shape of things to come in. So this is an example of a success story in that respect where a monkey was asked to do a context dependent discrimination task where some dots are moving right, some dots are moving left, some dots are red, some dots are green, and the monkey supposed to report on certain context what the majority color is, and in other contexts what the majority direction is. That even though this is a non convex optimization problem. This is a stupid linear network, right? So P is the probability that if you're within this cluster, features present and if you're outside this cluster, the probability of features present is Q, so there's a signal to noise ratio that governs this problem, which is the P -- Q divided by the standard deviation of the of the noise and the outside. It turns out it only depends on the shape of the category through its area, so it's the number of objects that belong in the category times the number of features that belong in the category. Essentially, where the universe is the product of the number of objects and number of features. The dynamics of learning right? You have these plateaus and sudden transitions. How does training time scale with depth? How should the learning rate scale with depth? OK, but you know another idea that actually Joshua sort of involved in was a nice idea was scaled random Gaussian initializations to combat the vanishing exploding gradient problem. The idea behind using a scaled random Gaussian matrix is that the norm of a random vector is preserved after propagating through a random Gaussian matrix matrix. And it's. That local minima at high error stand as a major impediment to non convex optimization, right? OK, but we know that our geometric intuition derived from living and moving within a low dimensional world doesn't generalize very well to high dimensional situations. Doing so, it's motivated by some work by Brian Dean and Physical Review Letters, 2007, where they looked at just a random error landscape. OK. Over high dimension, so you just do a single draw of a Gaussian process over N variables and that's your random error landscape OK. Let X be a critical point where the gradient vanish is let Y be its errorlevel. Well, OK, So what does curve mean? Categorized some of the deepest puzzles of deep learning into kind of three categories, right? One is trainability, right? So if you're solving some task, if a good network solution exists with small training error. And Moreover, why does it take so long to find it? IE. The other is expressivity, right? What principles to deep networks use to place probability or make decisions and regions of input space where you have very very little data? And there's actually a way you can derive it, used by minimizing a linear approximation to F of X within a trust region in which the linear and quadratic approximations agree. I mean, when you switch to stochastic gradient descent, you rapidly drop again. So, so why do we need depth? Well, these universal function approximations are kind of hokey because they provide no guarantees on the size of the hidden layer required to approximate a function. So the overall idea is that there might exist certain special functions that can that can be computed efficiently. Actually they showed a similar type of result where for Relu networks they showed that the number of linear regions can grow exponentially with depth and the way they did it as they came up with a specific network that recursively chop subspace using opposing reluz and each layer chops up each space. Each part of space once, and so the number of linear regions grows exponentially with depth. The number of monomials can grow exponentially with depth, and because it's a sum product network. If you want to get us number of monomial's with only one layer, you'll need then exponentially many this for the same number of monomial's in the deep network you will need exponentially many neurons in the in the shallow sum product networks. At Stanford, I started talking to Jay McClelland. This part of the talk it equally called the Misadventures and applied physicist wandering around the psychology Department. Are these the kinds of functions we want to compute from the perspective of AI? Curiosity's, or is this phenomenon much more generic? In some sense, can any function computed by a generic deep network not be efficiently computable by a shallow network? So we would like a theory of deep neural expressivity that demonstrates this for arbitrary nonlinearities and some natural general measure of functional complexity. And we focus on the curvature of a deep function as a measure of functional complexity. What we can show is that even in generic random deep networks, measures of functional curvature grow exponentially with depth, but not with. But the question is, how can we mathematically mathematically formalize this notion of dissent angling, and how do we use this mathematical formulation to quantitatively assess the distant angling power of deep versus shallow networks, and what we can show is that deep networks can disentangle manifolds whose curvature grows exponentially with depth, so it's actually quite remarkable how depth can lead to disentangle in power. You can look at it so the basic questions we ask is if you have a pair of points they become more similar or different overtime and how fast we can answer the question, and then if we have a smooth manifold we can answer the question of how does it, how does its curvature in volume change?