I'm PhD student at in Rio and I will talk about conversion of information from disagreeing views. Yeah, OK thanks so so suppose that I want to know the capital city of European countries. So given my model, the obvious approach is to try to use a public method to find the most likely parameter given the data onto that. What I will usually do is to invert the generative model to compute the probability of set of matter given the data, and then I will maximize his probability. Finally, we compare it to Truth Finder, which is an artistic fixed point method from the literature which mostly focus on correlation between fact. It's an iterative estimation of free kind of parameters or free parameter of the model. So now how to use the functional dependencies? So we just choose the best. Contact some experiment on synthetic data sets to reach large scale and we have also tried to find some real word that I said I will describe two of them. We really believe that truth discovery is something important and we do not pretend that we have served served the the program completely. What we give is a collection of fixed, which we give is a collection of fixed point method, one of them performing remarkably and regularly well. So there is a set of sources stating facts and there is possible the functional dependencies which insist facts on the most trivial functional dependencies. And the problem will be to determine which facts are true on which facts are false. Um, we really believe that there is some real world application, so the most obvious one is scary answering and it is also related to source selection data quality assessment on marginally, it's really useful to make some good use of the wisdom of crowds. I was going on with the technical setup as an input instead of facts, so fact is somehow the answer to acquire into a query like Paris is capital France or Miss Capital France from this capital of Italy on there is a sort of view which are sources and those sources give a partial mapping from the fact to true unfolds of. What is a total mapping from fact to true and false. So obviously the number of parameters there will be something like linear with the number of you.