[0.0s - 29.0s]
So my name is Al Bungalow. I'm PhD student at in Rio and I will talk about conversion of information from disagreeing views. It's a joint work with Search Abiteboul familiar young Amelia from Rogers University on Pierson, Cincinnati from telecom by Tech.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So I will begin my presentation with motivation example. Suppose that I want to know the capital city of some European countries of course. OK, it's OK like that. Yeah, OK thanks so so suppose that I want to know the capital city of European countries. And of course I may know good sources about that. For example Wikipedia, and then I will go to Wikipedia and take a look. But most of the case I will not know such a resources and then I would have to go to different websites and look at different. Website, so in my example I ice two different friend 'cause I don't know good friends. So I asked my friend on I will receive something like that and of course the first provision is that sometimes they disagree, sometimes they so we have to do something to to solve the disagreement and so most easy way to do it the most.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Trivial Way is to to take the answer, which is the most popular, so to use redundancy of information on and popularity. So in my example of course it will work for some city. But there is a city where it performed well. I will not be able to to have an idea about that Sir, or even I. May I get the wrong answer? And that's because in fact there is. Question which are more easy? Encryption without more difficult? Oh, and the problem is that I have no knowledge about what is easy on what is difficult. So I I want we want we do not want to assume that we have in knowledge like Francis, Capital of Paris and we do not want to add assume that web any knowledge about the question being difficult. For example, our main knows that there is a confusion between becuase on video paste because myself I used to do the mistake before I made some remain friends but in my system my system will usually not be able to know that. And of course, in this kind of data, the system is aware of the fact that there is a problem with Romanian, but it may not even happen so, so I have to try to do something better on up fully. There is another characteristic of this data. Also characteristic is there is some user which are better than other. So in my example Alice is perfect in every countries and George is very bad. So of course once again I may have some previous knowledge about knowing that Alice is good or knowing that George is not good, but we don't want to assume that because we think that in most of the cases we not, we will not. This is kind of information. Um, so now we still have the problem. To find the experts on without any prior knowledge to do that. One way is to try to find people that trust so it's not a good way to do it, because the definition of people I trust is people who speak like me, and if I'm not good, first I will have a look at truth and I'm interested in global truth, trust, truth, and the first point on second point is. But if I'm average, if I give average answer then I will reserve average and so on. More generally speaking, I don't want to find somebody which is globally trusted by the system, which means that yes, I correlation results are user because the guy is I correlation with other user. This guy is also another right user on. I want to expert. I want to find Alice. So now the real definition of expert there. That I want to find the guy who always or mostly give always a good answer. The correct answer on as I have no idea of the correct answer, the.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Trigger ID is to try to use the predicted correctness so that way I will. I will do in this example and somehow because I previously predict that Paris is a good answer for example and I will give a good score of trust to Alice on a bad score of trust to George. And then what I will do is to wait. To wait on my average with his trust on a, hopefully I will get better result. So in my case, in my little example it's not working well, so I get some more results, but I'm still wrong on some answer, but of course I may try to accelerate.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
And if I, if I accurate enough on my example and then I will get the perfect result. So of course my exam.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
There is not what the global world is, but somehow it's representative of what we think is the global world. So there is a set of sources stating facts and there is possible the functional dependencies which insist facts on the most trivial functional dependencies. We we look at is the fact that if you have a question then there is 1 answer to this question with this good through, all those questions are the answer to this question. Sports. So in some questions with network it's very trivial functional dependency. But when we use The thing is we already want to fully unsupervised setting so we do not assume any information about any truth value of in effect, nor about any difficulties of in effect nor in their own truth and sources. And the problem will be to determine which facts are true on which facts are false. Um, we really believe that there is some real world application, so the most obvious one is scary answering and it is also related to source selection data quality assessment on marginally, it's really useful to make some good use of the wisdom of crowds. Um?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So in the rest of the presentation I will first introduce a model, then some algorithm, briefly describe some experiment, and then conclude.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Um?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So, um. I was going on with the technical setup as an input instead of facts, so fact is somehow the answer to acquire into a query like Paris is capital France or Miss Capital France from this capital of Italy on there is a sort of view which are sources and those sources give a partial mapping from the fact to true unfolds of. So it's a really passion mapping. For example, the guy may just try to express himself about capital of France. And say that you do not believe that Paris capital France and we do believe that Rome is capital of France. And given all the views, the objective is to find the most likely railworld you. Weather, weather, weather, weather. What is a total mapping from fact to true and false. So at the end I would like to get something like Paris capital of France on Rome is not capital upfront and Rome is capital of Italy every for a truth value for.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
In effect. So to do that, we use a relatively simple probabilistic model, so some of the first parameter will be the real value of the fact the real value in the real world, and so true or false and 1st for every couple of view. On fact we will decide if we want to speak about this fact or not, and then when we have decided that we will. This side if the user do an arrow on earth on it will do an error according to two parameters. Weighted so will depend of the two parameter at the same time the one the first one will be. So difficulty of the facts and the second one will be the quality of the source. So obviously the number of parameters there will be something like linear with the number of you. In fact an what we could up from the data is to be a may be proportional to the product of the number of fact and. And view, or at least to be bigger than the number of parameters on we could up to be able to do some estimation of the parameters.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So given my model, the obvious approach is to try to use a public method to find the most likely parameter given the data onto that. What I will usually do is to invert the generative model to compute the probability of set of matter given the data, and then I will maximize his probability. But in our case is not particularly applicable for two reason. The first one is nonlinearity and then only a linearity there come from 2. Point of our model, the first one is the reason Boolean parameter and Boolean parameter can't be really. He measured using their relative and division and also the other part of the nonlinearity come from the fact that there is a product in our probability on that bed. Not very well in our own if you try to do some derivation. On some maximization then. So if you do that, what you will get is a kind of big set of equation. But the big question, will the big set of equation will not be linear equation. It will be very difficult to inverse equation. Also you have a large number of parameter and the number of equations will is quite large on an exponential technique or even a technique which is quadratic in the number of. In fact, all of you will be probably technically and put possible. So what we tried tried to do is to find an autistic fixed point algorithm to solve the problem. It's something stolen since kind of problem, but the problem.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
There is to reach stability.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So we will compare our algorithm to Freebase line. The first one is quenching, so I will take the. I will point out much positive statement I have about a fact on. I will keep the fact which of the most popular they must know. The bigger number of positive statement. So another way to try to design is to do a voting methods so I will compare for each fact how much people. How many people, uh, give on a positive statement on how many people give a negative statement on if there is more people which are positive about the fact I will keep the fact if there is multiple people which are negative about the fact, I will discuss the effect on. Finally, we compare it to Truth Finder, which is an artistic fixed point method from the literature which mostly focus on correlation between fact.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So one of the algorithm we use is free steam. It's an. It's an iterative estimation of free kind of parameters or free parameter of the model. Actually true value of facts everywhere rate of truth, body trustworthiness of sources, and unless of fact so to do that. So now you just compute an estimation of for example the truth value of fact given everyone the fixed parameter. And then you apply the same as the other estimation of error rate given also the parameter on the. Unless of fact, even although the parameter on respect it to reach an equilibrium, and because um a question murder is not linear. We can't really expect the the domain to be convex or to reach any stability easily. Nevertheless, if you give some tricky normalization, unlike trying to rest shrink strict, the place with the parameter could be. Then you may answer some stability.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So now how to use the functional dependencies? Is the functional dependencies we that we look for. Dependencies we used is the trivial when I present before, which is that if a user make a positive statement about non server question then you make a negative statement to every other state or other possible answer for this question and we treat we use it in pre filtering. So we just complete the answer of the user with his knowledge on his post filtering. So we just choose the best. Us the answer with the best call for each for every question.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Um, so now some experiment. We have. Contact some experiment on synthetic data sets to reach large scale and we have also tried to find some real word that I said I will describe two of them.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Quickly. Um, the very interesting one is a double. It's a website where user could bet on some event, so they may try to bet if somebody will win or not. A context, for example. And the good point is that when the event occurs then the administration tour of the website closer answer on give the answer. So we have a full. Us so we make an extraction of the. Cruisers abetting part about sports and try to. To infer.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So future score. So the the future event on somehow we get some improvement compared to the baseline.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
I know the example is, uh, some general knowledge queries with more participant but less questions.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And once again, we were able to make some improvements there. Are we even solve every question perfectly.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Um?

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So, um, we do. We really believe that truth discovery is something important and we do not pretend that we have served served the the program completely. Also, because our experiment shows that our methods. Are not so well performing compared to baseline. What we give is a collection of fixed, which we give is a collection of fixed point method, one of them performing remarkably and regularly well. Finally, we really think that there is a real cool real world application and also we already think that there is some other future work which could be done on this domain.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Thanks. It works well. You gave as an example of capitals. Um? So that there's only one correct answer? Yeah, but if we ask instead, what are the cities in France? Then there are many correct answers. Can you? Talk about that second case where there are many correct answers and how this would apply and and in particular how does it scale? In terms of the amount of data you need. Of as the number of possible correct answers grows, do you understand have something? Yeah, of course. It's even more general than that. For example, you may have some numeric value on. People may disagree and value, but so now they be. Another edge may agree on the value like the example from number of people in China we get in the last presentation. People may say 1.5 billion on 1.6 billion is the same thing. So now. Uh, the problem is our model. Our public model will not perform very well there, and if you use what we do, we have done with functional dependencies is rather trivial because we just do prefiltering and post filtering. Nothing in the model itself. If you do want to do some more clever stuff then you will not be able to do this simple prayer on post filtering because you have no idea about the number of. I've answer so a first quick answer is that if you have a distribution of the number of answer then you could use it and try to do the maximization so you use it is a parameter of the model and do some optimization according some maximization according to seize power meter. The appointment is you will have some opinion knowledge about the number of answer. I don't have any idea of how to do that without a prior knowledge about the distribution of number of on Sir. One of the one of the things that you mentioned that the algorithm outputs is the hardness of facts to guess or the difficulty. What ends up determining how. What? What types of facts are harder to guess? Is it ones with larger distribution of? Answers or ones that trustworthy sources get wrong or. On so we didn't look at the data on. With his perspective, so I will not be able to tell you. Anything based on the data. So if we want to try to guess an, I think that. The the most difficult question. Really come from. Usual. From user error like that was my example. I mean there is a lot of people with may confirm between Bucharest and Budapest, and of course it's a source of the error and also there is there is some fact that everybody will agree about because everybody knows the answer. I mean, you may probably know that USA is a country, but probably you do not know all the country, so that's why your case where intrinsically there is question which are more easy than other.
