[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hello everyone, I'll talk today about user involvement during awards go until with your lineman problems. So I be.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Our conclusions are important for gentle with women community, so I would first like to start with the conclusions based on existing work and our experience in developing ontology alignment and debugging systems. We have identified requirements for ontology alignment tools that encourage user involvement, forward kid until the alignment as. So we grouped this requirement in roughly through categories. The first category deals with requirements for the user interface and the second category deals with various requirements and we call that infrastructure an algorithms category. After we've done that. We performed a literature study with seven and our joint systems and here I'll go just very fast with the results. So regarding the requirements in the infrastructure and algorithms category, we found that they are supported to various level or some of them are not supported at all. The requirement in the user interface category we further divide it into three separate sub categories and one of them is the explanation category. This category deals with. Requirements for user interfaces that present information to the user. They present information to the user. For instance, why the Alignment system suggests particular potential mapping. An the requirements in this category are the least supported among the user interface categories further on. And we've done 2 user interface evaluations with three systems, and we found that that seemingly trivial issues like search and ontology visualization they become crucial in award KO setting. So now that I've gone through.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
The our conclusions I would like to give motivation for our work. Many ontology alignment systems have been developed in the past 10 years, but few provide user interfaces. An even fewer navigational aids and or complex visualization techniques. And what what? This chart shows are the number of systems in deontology Alignment evaluation Initiative between 2005 and 2014, so the full the full height of the bar shows the total number of systems. And the blue part of the bar shows those with some kind of user interface.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
This is the same data but different view of the data. What I want to show here is that between 2011 and 2013, less than 20% of the systems hacked user interface. Also on average we see less than 40% of the system has user interface. And it may work that this problem is addressed in 2014, but that's not exactly the case because one system participated with four versions, so we counted that systems four times.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Further on, nearly half of the challenges identified in the paper ontology matching state of the art and future challenges directly addressed user involvement. These are how they are defined in the paper exponential of making results to the users, fostering user involvement during the alignment process, and social and collaborative matching, and another challenge aims to address the environment where. The cooperation between the users could happen. All these challenges can be supported by provided user interfaces in combination with suitable visualization techniques. So.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Until now I addressed the users support part of the title of this presentation and now I'm going to address the war scale part part of the title. This chart shows the result from a small survey conducted in 2007. And it shows that the average size font ologist you said that time was up to 5000 concepts.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Another survey was performed six years later 2013 and the results were presented Account 2014 an it shows the DB Pedia an genealogy. Are among five most commonly used anthologies. So these are ontologies that are huge ontologies with 10s of thousands of concepts. So consequently, with the growing growing the size of the ontologies, the size of the women frozen problem also increases.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This time the SIM was captured by the different accident audio and valuation initiative and these are the tracks. With the the the trucks with the hugest tracks for the years in 2005 D'anatomie track I had several 10 thousands of concepts in 2012. The largest task. In the world by truck had 200,000 concepts. Further on in 2013, the interactive track was introduced, 1st edition of that track had five participants and now five of them increase their Rico and three of them their precision. When comparing with the non interactive mouse of the system.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So I give motivation for this work until now. And now I'll show the requirements we've developed. As I said, they are grouped into categories, user interface and infrastructural algorithms. And then I will cover the results from the literature study and show the results from 2 usability evaluations. Heuristic evaluation and observational study.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
The requirements in the user interface category are based on the 4th conceptual dimensions presented in the work. A cognitive support framework for ontology mapping in 2007. This work presents for dimensions the analysis and generation dimension, deals with generating potential, mapping the potential mapping generated by that dimension are. And present it to the user during the representation dimension. Then the next dimension analysis and decision making deals with the user internal decision-making process you a processes. Dua. Decide how to validate mappings and to create mappings manually. Further on the user interacts with the system to materialize his or her decissions during the interaction dimension. So these are the four dimensions a as they were presented in 2007. In the this work.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So we took the requirements in these 3 dimensions and further categorized them into three categories. Explanation category I already mentioned. It deals with the requirements for presenting information to the user, such, for instance, why the system has suggested a particular potential mapping. What? What is the state of the process? Meaning how many potential mappings have already been validated? How many are left? What are possible starting points etc. The inspection category deals with actions to. 404 inspection category use with actions for overview. Zoom, filtering, functionality's and so on, and the manipulation category contains actions for manipulating the potential mappings. That is reject accept I know. So create mappings manually. So these are the request.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
I meant in the user interface category and I'll continue with those in the infrastructure and algorithms category, so we're talking forward scale one to Joe Weinman. In that context, two watch anthologist cannot be handled by a user on a single occasion. Does the user should be able to suspend the process, preserve its state, and resume it later on? Another strategy to deal with large scale tasks is to divide them into smaller tasks which can be easily handled by a single user. Then, further in the context of our scale matching, it is not feasible for a single user to validate all mappings. This could be thousands of potential map potential mapping generated by the system. So the tools developer should aim at reducing unnecessary user intervention. Foreigner Unmatching World Scale version told this is a lengthy and demanding task which can be relaxed by involving several users who can discuss together problematic mappings. Then I'm on the requirement is the environment where such collaboration could happen. This environment should support not only until adjournment functionalities, but also functionality's services for managing the alignment, like storing, versioning, etc and also services for communication between its users, like weakest messaging and so on. Another way to support the user during the women process is to provide recommendation and rankings based on for instance. External resources. Previous user actions, other user sections in when in a cooperative environment, and so on, the quality of the results from applications that consume alignments depend on the quality of the alignments and direct step to improve the quality of the alignment. Is the bugging stack to introduce the bugging step in our previous work, we've shown that the user has changed his decision regarding mappings he had manually. Validated before after he interacted with Norman system with at the bottom system, sorry. Further wrong, providing the user with possibility to configure the alignment process will give him or her further insights of the process and was but not least withdrawal execution of mappings and temporary mappings using them, the user can. For the consequences of his or her actions.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
So this table show the results from our literature study seven systems check mark means supported minus mean not supported was means supported to some extent. Our very briefly go through it. So the 1st four systems almost fully support the inspection and manipulation categories. The explanation category further on was. Supported to the least of from them. In the infrastructure and algorithms category, and some requirements are supported. It may work that debugging is supported very often. But it's not the case in reality. At discussing the paper, other requirements are supported to different level, and there are some that are not supported at all.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
As a further step in our study, we conducted usability evaluation to review to what level?

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Dick requirements are supported. There are several definitions for usability, and here we consider usability as defined by the iOS ISO standard according to the standard, and the usability is the extent to which a product can be used, but by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction in a specified concepts. Context of use. Efficiency effectiveness is defined as the accuracy and completeness which which the user users achieve specified cause further efficiency is the define test resources expended in relation to achieve accuracy and completeness and satisfaction as are considered the positive attitudes. Anne. Freedom of discomfort while using the system. The effectiveness aspect was addressed by the task success collected during the the user stadium and heuristic evaluation. The efficiency aspect was addressed by task completion times. And the satisfaction aspect was addressed by the system Usability scale questionnaire. I know we've done this usability evaluations on three systems, sample and cock.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
And our first dog for usability for heuristic evaluation. An there heuristic evaluation aims to review usability issues by comparing system user interfaces towards a sect of accepted usability heuristics. This evaluation, our revelation considers nuisance that then heuristics have I not going through all of them now, but just to mention some so according to the system should provide simple and natural dialogue. Presenting only nest the necessary information for the user to deal with its tasks. Any additional information will compete for the user attention. The systems should do that in the user language. So the system should also aim to minimize the user memory world. And forward. Available platform graphical standards be consistent in meaning. Present the same thing in the same in the same way. Well, and when it appears in the system. Further, the system should provide feedback for what's happening. There are heuristics dealing with error prevention, recognize recognition and recover recovery from errors, and so on. I can present here the result the results from this evaluation I refer you to the paper becausw heuristic evaluation for each of the systems could be a presentation on its own.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Then we performed an observational study with the three systems in the anthologies from the anatomy track of the Ontology, One Manipulation Initiative 2014. We recreated 8 participants or computer scientists. All of them had. Ontology engineering course before that. We developed for each of the systems we develope tasks such that they cover as many as possible of the requirements in the user interface category. Those in the infrastructure and algorithm category were not cover that much since they are. Limited support. Since they would require significantly longer sessions. Also that they would require domain experts. And just to go briefly through the results. We found out that. ACS supports most of the requirements in the user interface category and this was not surprise for us since it was developed based on the requirements on the cognitive support requirements on which we based the requirement in the user interface category. The other two systems support some of them. As suggested by the literature study and explanation category, the requirements there were the least supported. Further, we found that with the the the the. The performance be improved to the West tasks in terms of decreasing time and increasing tasks.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
I am, after all tasks were completed. By a user with the system we gave the participant the system Usability scale questionnaire. Um? This question Ori we selected since it provides a good assessment of the perceived usability of a system with a small sample of eight users, as in our case. This is the average for the systems. The scores they achieved, the average score they achieved and on the right is the objective rating still give. It's out of this questionnaire is about 2025 years old at the objective rating scale was created in 2009. The results from available SUS questionnaires were compared to objective scales and correlation was found so the cock system performed best among the tree at the border between the OK and good interval, ansambel performed at the beginning of the OK interval. An I should say that OK should not be perceived as satisfactory, but rather that improvements in the these systems interfaces are needed.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So we observed several issues while that doing the studies are very brief because through them. As so, the three representation in had two issues, one of them multiple inheritance. I think I don't need to go through that one regarding the visualizations. User has problems whining which are apparent in which our children concepts of a concept, some of them you used pen to a wine which are parents and children. The search functionality in the in all of the three system has its peculiar peculiarities and do to it. Several tasks were not finished successfully. And after my knowledge is discovered also by than using heuristics. And the users. , terms unfamiliar, so now.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Now instead of conclusions with this presentation, we want to show the results of our studies, but also draw researchers attention to the user interfaces switch since we see them as paramount for user involvement and not only during large scale tasks in this paper. So why should we solve? Should we show? The user this.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Or maybe it's better to show this to the users and just before to finish? Just in line with this topic I.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
I'd like to advertise Work Workshop on visualization and user interfaces for ontologies and link data colocated with ISWC and the submission deadline for it is July 1st. Thank you.
