First, I would like to ask Miss Hlinka Zurich limits to present the results of the 5th Ministerial Government Conference link Zuzek Nimitz. And then you create the new strategy that the that is under preparation is called Europe 2020 and I would like to take this opportunity to apologize to organizer. It's for smart growth, meaning that we are trying to develop the economy based on the knowledge and innovation. It's about the sustainable growth. As I said, the first one empowering citizens and businesses. Then we want to import to enlarge this or using public sector information by making it available for others. Here we are talking about reducing the administrative burden, taking advantage of this ICT technology. And of course how to how to. So we would like to achieve that we will be able to make some text declaration in Country B where he he or she is working will be able to get symptomatic and paperless reimbursement health expenses even though being on vacation in Santorini for example, and will be able to get the pension rights from another country where he or she worked some years. If the business is located in Kent Country a, it is able to participate in public procurement in some other country to make transactions. Then the documents that are exchanging cross border must be also interoperable E signatures, it delivery and this. Is the kind of cross County themes for this 3 three objectives mainly for single market support and also for empower? Four to provide necessary key enablers and preconditions. Here we have to deal with technical interoperability to find a solution for this elements as well as the legal and under these objectives. There definitely economic rational to European actions on the government. If you are looking from the EU perspective, is twofold. The development and implementation of cross border support the construction of Europe and this benefit. We aim to benefit all Member States. These are the types of action that we are preparing. 3 broad types of actions are foreseen and these are reaching the commonly defined target. So, for example, if we, if we define target too. Then each country must develop this services and by the help of the community, the Commission and action plan we can you know, have the instruments that the Member States can really achieve these targets. Future and if we see if we look at some of the numbers we have here the the estimations ICT can bring can bring up to 40% to productivity growth and 25% to GDP growth in Europe and in differences in the investment in this technology is. Also, reflecting in the development of the area of the country. Really, the first draft we can face some barriers and key uncertainties when we are talking about implementing this action plan and that will be adopted to the EU level. Specially because of this financial crisis, we can expect that the Member States will resist that from the from the point of view that own country first. Then if we're talking about efficiency and effectiveness and organizational changes of public administration, here we have inertia due to the changing power structure, etc. The colleague from the grease already mentioned the interoperability and Ida BC program. Can can develop this cross border and cross sectoral interaction between? E15 this is the new Slovenian strategy that I mentioned that was adopted last year. It's about efficient and effective public administration about how to increase the user takeup of government services. We have different this vertical, you know, services that will take advantage on this common policies, methodologies, measures, reusable. Half of European households and more than 80% of European business have a fixed broadband connection and 3/4 of you citizens are using Internet on a regular basis. Also we detect it. The new strategy called under working name Digital Agenda that is planned to be adopted. In the best case in April 2010, and here are the main elements expected in the digital field. The Member States and business sector should invest more into the ICT technology and the goal is one point billion foreseen for the budget and broadband network must be extended and all citizens must have access to them. By 2025, but OK, the Europe wants to achieve this until 2015. Of euros, here is the estimation for Estonia for electronically filled tax declarations, and of course, the public procurement is well known as a high impact services and accounts for 60% of European GDP, and this is thanks to this. This sum is the 16% can be divided on 5% on public expenditure and 50 to 80% on the transaction itself. And in preparation the new strategy Europe 2020 and this set will be adopted by the European Council in June 2010. Information Society development was important as as well in the Lisbon Strategy as will be now in this Europe 2020. I 2010 has this three main elements now. It was about getting people online and not in line, and that was the period when the basic services were offered were offered through the Internet, like forgetting the birth certificates or something like that and then. The development of the government matured into such a stage that the government, the people responsible for eager government, were trying to obtain the key political commitment to achieve this competitiveness. This positive effect of the government and then the 25 it was their turn over and that time from the time the government placed the citizen at the heart of the. So I think that this reflects also the four priorities for government, which was adopted to achieve these objectives until up to 2015. These are four priorities. And of course the efficiency and effectiveness is the key word I think from also from 2005 how to achieve deliver more. Or less, and of course, the the 4th objective is dealing with electronic identity's, electronic signature, trust, personal data protection and these are called so called key enablers and precondition that must be achieved before we can.