Represented our first 484 A into the RT taskbar. Groups really worked extensively towards performing the types of textual inference. Their crucial for a number of NLP applications. Probably require should be decomposed into a number of different number different categories, so we each of these types, whether they were speech act verbs, nonfactor speech, actors like denier, Claymore, psych, verbs like think or believe, or verbs of uncertainty or likelihood would be uncertain. We use four sets of features and these are just. Some of the some of the features that we use in each of these categories so things things like a statistical features like cosine similarity or Glickman into guns, lexical entailment, probability, lexico semantic features like word, net similarity that we have several other groups have used Ted Peterson's package, Wordnet, synonymy, and antinomy, named entity features alternations that we had acquired previous for previous applications. Like you, a series of purely string based features like Levenshtein, edit distance or morphological stem equality, and then syntactic features such as the maximal category that the token was found in. So to be able to train this classifier, we annotated a set of 10,000 alignment chunkers taken from the development set as either positive negative examples of alignment and then we train to different classifiers that Hill climber just for kicks Anna Maxent classifier an we got relatively decent performance, but we found that when we sample we tested on different portions of that 10,000 trained and tested different portions of that annotated set. Basically experiment with together at two different techniques for gathering training data. We created a corpus about 100,000 positive examples of entailment by pairing the headline of a document with the first sentence of the newswire document. Sydney Newspapers made a secret bid not to report on the funding, and spending made through the city's successful bid for the 2000 Olympics and headline was papers said to protect Sydney bid. So OK, yeah, but not all sentences that we acquired containing both aligned entities were true paraphrases. Like Barzelay and Lee are approach focuses on creating clusters of paraphrases extracted automatically from the web. So we'll go briefly through the steps here, so we like I said before we took the two entities with the highest alignment confidence from each pair, and then we extracted the text passages that contain both aligned entities in the context window of EM words from each sentence. Text messages were then the same kind of classes that we extracted. Underlying chunk, which counted the number of chunks in the hypothesis that were not aligned with chunks in the text dependency. Or so we kind of when they were exactly assigned the same ruler when they were nearly assigned the same role. Both of these paraphrases in the same surviving cluster therapists. So we had alignment features and so this idea that idea was to try to figure out what align elements align in the text of the hypothesis. Dependency features really tried to determine whether to the same dependencies were assigned a corresponding entities in the text in the hypothesis. And in the hypothesis is then paraphrase features move on to try to tell us whether there were any paraphrases that could be found that could be considered to be paraphrases. Portions of the text of the hypothesis, and we saw two of these have gone with quarterback or has or may have turned the keys of the offense over 2. The King or the alignments with the government's priority lines with government did not recognize lines with took the need for preventive measures. Realize with pollution. OK, so the government spa priority lining with the government. Not recognize and took is even worse. This is nice example one. So has allowed companies to get away with. It is looking for ways to deal with wants to forget about. Groundhog this year recognized entailment. About 75% of examples in the RTT set and so notable numbers here were like everyone else we did best in the summarization set and we had the highest average precision in the IE test. There's a component that has to do with the makeup of each of these tasks, but it also has something to do with our training data. And this includes a whole host or rich semantic annotations including named entity recognition, temporal normalization and ordering information, syntactic and semantic parsing, name aliasing, name coreference, and a variety of semantic annotations that are performed using heuristics designed to capture kinds of propositional semantics. These the highest confidence entities that are aligned out of this lexical line of classifier, then sent to a paraphrasing or a phrase level alternation acquisition module which uses the web as its corpus to be able to drive these alternations. So performance in February Boot was increased from 65% to about 75% when we use about 200,000 examples from our training corpus. So we've been able to increase our overall performance from the 2006 Death Step by about 5%. And you can see here that the performance increase seems to be tapering off now. 100,000 examples. Then we have this kind of very nascent paraphrase acquisition module that arise phrase level alternations for passages contained in high confidence for aligned entities, and then we have a decision tree based entailment classified are fire that works to combine all of these features in order to make an intelligent decision. You know, somehow you know by in our own shop by relaxing the notion of strict element in order to train training corporate that can prove effective in training systems for the R key task, you don't necessarily. Enter, take out some of the bugs in the features that we were using, so there were simple. Then we'll talk about today is semantic annotation, and we use it as just mentioned. We also annotated factive verbs, which we define as predicates that conventionally imply the truth of their complements.