So the nature prefers growth of strontium titanate nanoparticles in the shape of cubes due to the crystal structure and as well as due to the lowest energy of 1. Possible to know the area of origin. Spectrometry stable isotope are useful analytical tool to check the authenticity and geographical origin of food. The main aim is the analysis of stable isotope ratio, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and nitrogen. It is possible to note that a difference, the differentiation between plan amount in milk and the correlation between values of the same capital sheet. So greetings everyone, I would be talking about development of hydrogen peroxide gas sensor for security applications. I come from Department of Analytical Chemistry. Unfortunately, this is connected to terror attacks and do bombing an explosives. How could we prevent them and how can we actually protect human lives, historical monuments and future of our children? So as a researchers, how are we contributing to that actually well? We are trying to develop electrochemical sensor. This one is from graphene. And we know that peroxide are very unstable and they are actually both recourses, an degradation, products of all paraccel explosives. Actually we can detect peroxides, but in not so small concentrations. Develop a system which can actually detect peroxides in gas phase in PBS and as fast as possible. So thank you for attention. And briefly, is doing this by converting mechanical energy into electrical energy and vice versa. Food supplements to meet our needs for several different nutrients. New product like ferulic acid. Because of that, we studied the parameters that determine the electrostatic interaction between the nanoplatelets in four different alcohols and we evaluate a surface charge electrostatic repulsion between the nanoplatelets. Thank you so my name is Marshall and in the following 3 minutes I will. Some other, some other materials in made a metallic ceramic composite or so-called cemented carbides. So how about if we melt 5 or even more metals together made so called high entropy alloys and put it inside the matrix ceramic matrix and made a superior material? Let me introduce you to the world of electronic ceramics. Thank you hello everyone, so my name is Adriana Sheets and I want to quickly present you an idea of using neurotoxins from snake venom for as a tool for studying neurodegenerative diseases.