[0.0s - 29.0s]
So thank you for letting me open this for session. So the first pitch is entitled. No.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Earth is hockey, metals and ceramics. So competition or synergy and this last line, we ask ourselves a lot, whether whether to choose option A or option B, whether is it a competition, or we can put these two together.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So let us see at a simple question what are we going to eat today for lunch, either salad or maybe something with meat, but some brilliant minds someday say.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Maybe if you put these two together you make something really great. But getting back.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The science in some future will have Fusion nuclear power plants, from which we will harvest lots big amounts of energy out of 100 million degrees Celsius. Hot plasma. But in order to do that, we need to confine this plasma inside this Chamber and the surrounding components will have to withstand really extreme environment. So in our research group we asked, asked ourselves which material.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Use other ductile and tough metal that depends are under pressure or maybe harder ceramic that might break. So in the beginning we put all our focus into one metal called Tungsten. It's a very good material with good mechanical and all other properties, but at elevated temperatures at which the material will be exposed inside the reactor at around 1000 degrees Celsius this material loses all good properties, so this is not an option. How about his brother ceramic, tungsten carbide? It's good, it's less affected by temperature. But it's still too brittle to use it by its own. So then we had an idea. What if you put these two metals together? Or maybe.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Some other, some other materials in made a metallic ceramic composite or so-called cemented carbides. Well synergy of heart, ceramic, an ductile metal gives one of the best materials known to men for drilling into the earth and machining all other metals. But this composites were made of 1 ceramic material or end one or maybe 2. Metals, but as scientists we want to make, we want to take it to the next level. So how about if we melt 5 or even more metals together made so called high entropy alloys and put it inside the matrix ceramic matrix and made a superior material? Well, if you wanna know more in your favor, intrigued. You have to see poster #33. Thank you.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So next one, Adrian evolutions. Thank you hello everyone, so my name is Adriana Sheets and I want to quickly present you an idea of using neurotoxins from snake venom for as a tool for studying neurodegenerative diseases. You all heard of Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease, right?

[232.0s - 261.0s]
So this is one of the most venomous snakes in Europe. It's also the most venomous one in Slovenia. It's called the nose cone Viper. And this is one of the toxins in its venom. The amount of toxin and this toxin acts on neuromuscular junctions, so the points in our body where our nerves are connected to our muscles and when we want to contract our muscles, the nerve cells releases attitude: which acts as a neurotransmitter, so it's a signal for. Muscles to contract and the amount of toxin actually inhibits this communication, so it causes paralysis. So you can imagine a snake biting mouse and in a couple of moments a mouse is paralyzed.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
On the molecular level, the toxin Axon mitochondria, which are cell organelles responsible for producing energy. You can imagine them as little factories, cell factories.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And what is interesting is that these toxin and similar toxins actually demo toxin is very similar to one of our own enzymes. How is it possible that some toxin from Snake is similar to my enzyme? Well, the answer is evolution. So first snakes also had normalizing, let's say, and then these send them the gene duplicated and the new gene gain mutations and mutations and it became toxic, which is good for snake because they were better at hunting and. Defense and so on and, but they're still very similar because of their origin. Two are enzymes and one of these enzymes. For slope is type 2A. Is so in normal conditions when we are healthy it has some function. It does some good work for us, but then in in in a disease like Alzheimer's it becomes toxic to the neurons so it damages the neurons and the effect is actually similar to the effect of the Ahmadi toxin. So our idea is to use the Ahmadi toxin and knowledge about the multi taxing to better understand our own enzymes. Their functions and these functions, especially in the context of these terrible neurodegenerative diseases. So.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So if you would like to learn more than see poster number 54, which are recognized by this big red mitochondrion, it's not a potato, it's about 100.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Thank you very much for listening. And now back to materials with island. Hello everyone and thank you for introduction. So. Particles mom controlling particles morphology including size, shape, preferential orientation is of great interest.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Because it influences the electrical, magnetic, optical properties of the material. So my name is Alia Shantalla and I'm from K9. Department of the OSHA Steven Institute. Currently I'm working with strontium titanate which is amazing material. It can be used in electronic electronic applications. It can be used in catalytic systems or as a diamond stimulant. Strontium strontium titanate has well. Has thrown some atoms in corners of the cube. Titanium Atom is in the body center of the cube and oxygens are located in centers of cubes faces. So the nature prefers growth of strontium titanate nanoparticles in the shape of cubes due to the crystal structure and as well as due to the lowest energy of 1. Oh, oh, faces. So nanoparticles have great surface to volume ratio. And strontium titanate cubic nanoparticles were identified as a good photocatalyst for different applications including quarter splitting for producing hydrogen as an energy source. However, for many applications we want to have this material in the shape of plate, so. What can we do? Alright dear is to trick the nature by using.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Template. So in the first step I prepare particles that stands to grow in a plate like shape. And have a similar structure to strontium titanate. So I decided to use bismuth titanate, which has layered structure. There's a layer of bismuth oxide and layered of several parasite, another layer of bismuth oxide, and so these two type of layers are alternating stacks stacks to each other and then in the second step I convert this template particles to strontium titanate and in last few months I was figuring out how this mechanism is working so. How this whole bismuth oxide layers and bismuth ions are going out of the structure and strontium ions are going into the structure without collapsing this platelike structure. So if you want to know how this mechanism is going on, please come to.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Poster #25 thank you.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So I'd like to invite next speaker Marta Brito, to tell us about Parmigiano Reggiano. Good morning.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Almost drinks milk, but where they do material, the raw material used to produce it came from from milk sample from different areas. Possible to know the area of origin. But we generally Journal cheese is an important. Are the cheese for Italian economy because he tells a PDO trademarks, but a lot of food fro exist. Therefore, with my research I want to show you how it possible to know. For example, if a farmer feeds cow with something that it's not made in Italy, and it possible by using stable isotope with.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Spectrometry stable isotope are useful analytical tool to check the authenticity and geographical origin of food. The main aim is the analysis of stable isotope ratio, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and nitrogen. For Plana predictive model for the origin of milk based on the characteristic of groundwater and feed which is linked to the environmental characteristic.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
I study 10 cattle shed located in Plan Hilan Mountain and the sample were investigated monthly last year. Carbon and nitrogen analyze in the feed ingested by the cow hay and fodder oxygen an I drogen analyze in groundwater, in in water, ingested by the cow and milk produced.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Here the graphs on preliminary data in the first graph there are the value of water and milk and of all 10 cattle sheet that the water are in line with the rainfall value of North. In Italy. Instead, milk deviation depends on animal metabolism in the. In the second graph you can see the variation of oxygen value of water and milk in plan.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Content area, so the oxygen an I drogen is operational for groundwater are indicator of the milk origin being affected by the claimant factor. It is possible to note that a difference, the differentiation between plan amount in milk and the correlation between values of the same capital sheet. In addition, this results of my study may be used to develop model for food origin guarantee and food at alteration to conclude the unfortunately Italian people are known for food. And also for mafia. But in that case I want to show you how to protect against a commercial fraud, in this case food fraud.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Thank you for my attention and don't miss my poster.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
And now introducing the next speaker, Jelena is a yellow bitch. So greetings everyone, I would be talking about development of hydrogen peroxide gas sensor for security applications. I come from Department of Analytical Chemistry. National Institute of Chemistry an. Actually this project is collaboration between me and two other colleagues, Vasco Ski and premature van which. And as I actually said.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
From my title security applications. Unfortunately, this is connected to terror attacks and do bombing an explosives. How could we prevent them and how can we actually protect human lives, historical monuments and future of our children?

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So as a researchers, how are we contributing to that actually well? We are trying to develop electrochemical sensor. We can see it on the picture. It is basically electrode. This one is from graphene. And we know that peroxide are very unstable and they are actually both recourses, an degradation, products of all paraccel explosives. Which means we can actually detect him, but in gas phase very hot. Well, we are using indirect method to detect peroxides. With manganese dioxide, that means that we are actually. Following the change of concentration among dioxide. And as we can see from them. Following shame that mongon dioxide is actually oxidating. Peroxide, two oxygen and water. It actually falls apart among an oxide and mongon trihydroxide, and then again reoxidize itself to mongon D oxide, which can we actually see on cycle voltammogram on specific peak. Which can you actually see on my poster?

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Well, this is very good method, but it has its own downfalls because it can. Actually we can detect peroxides, but in not so small concentrations. What are we actually trying to do is well too. Develop a system which can actually detect peroxides in gas phase in PBS and as fast as possible. Because time is actually very important if you want to protect it. People and actually security and other stuff. This is actually we can see from this picture. This is just a simple simple thing that we are actually using to detect it. We have Aqua phase peroxide and in gas phase and that'll thing in between is actually electrode or electrochemical.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So thank you for attention. If you have any questions, please feel free to ask me. I'll be at post that six and. See you later.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So hello everyone, my name is Juana. I am part of the Electronic Ceramic Department and today I'm going to talk about the Piso electric material. More precisely, about an environmentally friendly by selecting material, and I think it's safe to say that the Peiser electrics concern all of us because we all get in touch with them. And I can give you just one example. Smartphones, I think every of you at least play one time with a smartphone. And if you ever ask yourself, how can you unlock your smartphone with your fingerprint, or how can you? Play with this feature that is the voice recognition or how if you went out for a run and you recorded your heartbeat with your smartphone, then you'll have a glimpse of what up isoelectric material can do.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
And briefly, is doing this by converting mechanical energy into electrical energy and vice versa. Up isoelectric sar. Pretty much everywhere starting from bones, DNA, proteins. But we are making them in the lab and they have this very nice structure that allow us to dope to substitute to add other atoms in order to make our price electric rate. Anne.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
The so what's left? From moving outside the lab and putting our pies electrics on the market, well, we need to understand how the synthesis route influences the final properties and this is what we've done here. We went, we actually investigate it. That material, that is has a really complicated structure. And that we. Approach a multi scale starting from micro level down to atomic level.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
In one of our more most notorious result was that there are, apart from other influences, also atomic defects that have influence on the final properties. So we found an amorphous atomic layer in between two grains that have a crucial role on the final properties. This is really. A nice result, thinking of the fact that there are defects that are 1 billion times smaller than the actual scale at which we are measuring the final properties. So. Defect so detail.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
This matter, and if you want to know more about how small things can change big things, you are all welcome to my poster, #62. Thank you for your attention.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And I'm going to invite the next speaker that is yes, Mina. So hello everybody, I will be talking about authenticity, safety and quality of food supplements in Slovenian market.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
So we all wish that we could satisfy our needs for nutrients with our fruit with 100% as it is shown here. But in reality, with our data date nutrition we can only meet about this much of our needed nutrients and if we take into account also are bad eating habits is actually more like this. So a lot of us try to solve this problems by taking several. Food supplements to meet our needs for several different nutrients.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
But the problem here is that food supplements in Slovenian market aren't. They don't have enough of inspection and enough of control. That's why their authenticity, safety and quality are questionable so.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
Here we decided to analyze the food supplement, spirulina food supplements from Slovenian market and we used X Ray fluorescence method and I see PMS method to determine their macro and micro elemental composition. And also the. Isotope ratio mass spectrometry method to determine the isotope ratios in this elements, and.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Our results were quite promising. Here we can see that we managed to separate the samples from. OK, so on the top we have the samples from Italy, then the samples from Hawaii and the bigger part are the samples from Asia. Here we can see that also inside Asia the samples are separated according to the Asian country and we can already see an intruder from Portugal which is assumed to not be from Portugal. So here we already can see in potential fraud. Furthermore, we also decided to analyze the quantity of toxic trace elements in our samples. Most of the samples were thankfully in the red zones, which are the average values of the samples, and this average values are actually quite low if we take into account 100% which is the proper safety value determined by European Food Safety Agency, we can only see that in. Mercury case there is 1 sample which exceeded the upper safety value for 1%, but again this was only one sample thankfully. So here we can see that this methods actually could contribute to safety, quality and authenticity. Analysis of food supplements in Slovenian market.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So if you want to know more, please visit my poster at number 57 and now I am introducing.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
The next speaker, which is an Adam Nanovic.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
Hi everyone, my name is Anna. I'm doing my research in in a collector group and before I tell you what it's about, I just want to emphasize that this research is part of wider project funded by European Commission an it's called Mommy which sends for magnetics and micro hydrodynamics. My focus is on red alert material, so more of specifically on Samaria, my iron nitride. Before I say what are the problems, I would just like to shortly introduce the timescale and development of rare earth materials because there are few fluctuations. It all started in the 60s when there in the states they have piled up of a lot of samarium and they didn't know what to do with it. So they decided to mix it with Kobalt and they proved to be successful because they found really good permanent magnet. However, this led to cobble crisis in the 70s, which was the driving force for the researchers to focus their activities on the. Using yeah, discovering the magnets that are that don't contain cobalt, which led us to discovery of neodymium magnets in the States and Europeans were, I guess some kind of jealous and they wanted to find out like a better answer to that and that led to discovery of samarium ironite red and 10 years ago. We had a rare crisis which was due to monopolization of. China producers because the largest deposits are established in China, the around 90% of all material comes from China. So today we have few trends in the this material science field. There is an ongoing trend on using less words or no words at all, which can kind of limit the future technological development in terms of in terms of. Mini mini authorization of the devices. There is also focused on our recycling rare earth materials, which can be kinda time consuming, costly and not really environmentally friendly as any mining activities. And finally my main objective is to extend the life shell of the product becausw. Samarium is base for is known for its high energy product but they are also extremely. Corrosive and thermally not stable, which limits its production and manufacturing. So basically if you want to hear more, just approach it during the poster session to the poster 55. Thank you.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
And now you turn. So.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
Brewmaster. Attractivity source of obtaining. This mainly composed of lignin externals and hemmeter laws. Protesting by micro. And this can help us too. Some useful. Put products. Play.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
So it's doing. But this is and Richard like people like. But but they care what the lot of. Different. So they're growing Flowers did so because they were good. Alot of boomers. Do you use it is? And they have got bacteria and so in which help we can produce? New product like ferulic acid.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
So we started. The bacteria from. Boots. Story and we prepared self to media with a new lean still owes looking like. So in. No. Activity to pagebreak.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
This is. Next surprising.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Petra's treasure. Hi my name is Petra. I'm working at the F6 Department and one of the questions that we are asking right now is do we have to choose between our car and cleaner?

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
These are the size that we are used to seeing in the morning and in the afternoons when we're driving to work or back home, but we know that European countries and other Western countries are trying to go from fossil fuel energy to maybe more cleaner energy. That is, let's say wind or solar energy. But we are not the only ones on this Earth, so not everyone can afford that kind of energy and our aim is to clean fossil fuels as much as we can so they do not cause as much harm to the environment.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
So what actually comes out of the combustion engine the most the we can find gases like nitrogen, CO2, water, an oxygen. These are the most common ones, but we are focusing on the analytics an SO2 emissions. These affect our health Annina presence like acid rain. They affect nature, our architecture, lakes and also our homes.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
And we are creating a new material catalyst that will eliminate all surface sulfur from fossil fuels. It's made out of cheap material like zinc oxide and nickel, and the best thing it can be recycled and used multiple times.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Thank you for listening and I hope you will visit my poster an ASK Me more question and I hope that I can answer it.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
The next one is Patricia. Hello. Y'all know man. It's in solid state, but I'm working with a liquid magnet an imagine how interesting this is.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Probable applications of liquid man. It could be for micro cooling of electronic devices or magnetic sensors and.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
What is the liquid magnet actually made of room temperature? Liquid magnet can be formed just by concentrating or suspension of volume hexa ferret nanoplatelets in one boot and all these nano platelets are hexagonal and have magnetic easy axis perpendicular to their basal plates plane.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
A normal suspension of this nanoplatelets is isotropic, meaning that the platelets facing different directions but with concentrating this suspension we get anomatic suspension of the nanoplatelets where the platelets facing the same direction and also their magnetic easy axis. The areas of such alignment, induced external monetization and are called magnetic domains. And here I have the comparison of isotropic anomatic phase where we can see the formation of the magnetic domains in the pneumatic phase. They both respond to external field. But when we go with filled back to zero in isotropic nothing happens, but enomatic domain start to form again.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
So these nanoplatelets are magnetic. They tend to stick together and aggregate just like normal magnets, and this is an unwanted process because we want the alignment as it is in the nematic phase. And here I have an example from real life of an aggregate and the pneumatic suspension pneumatic. And if you agree with me then a metric looks quite happier here.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
So you're probably wondering what makes the existence of a liquid magnet actually possible, and these are electrostatic interactions. We use a surfactant named the Tillmans answer, phonic acid, or in short the BSA, and this causes enough electrostatic repulsion between the platelets to allow the alignment as it is in the nematic phase and also to suppress the aggregation of the nanoplatelets.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
Because of that, we studied the parameters that determine the electrostatic interaction between the nanoplatelets in four different alcohols and we evaluate a surface charge electrostatic repulsion between the nanoplatelets. How much of the BSA is dissolved and also dissociated? And all of this to determine the device screening length. And this is the distance between the nanoplatelets to where the electrostatic effect persists. If you're interested in more of my work.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Just come to poster number 10 and if you will have any problems finding it, just follow the distinctive image of the nanoplatelets. Thank you for your attention. Anne.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
The next speaker is my math asadal. Thank you so my name is Marshall and in the following 3 minutes I will. Make an introduction to my poster with the number 63 and titled or solve the position of light magnesium niobate. Let's diagnostic films onto low-cost metal substrates.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
Let me introduce you to the world of electronic ceramics. They are present in many electronic devices and they are used for the interesting electrical properties such as conductivity, some conductivity, visor, electricity, ferroelectricity and so on. For example, piezoelectric ceramics. Or materials which can directly convert between mechanical and electrical energy. This is known as the price electric effect and we use them in many applications such as ultrasonic diagnostics and injured printers.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Next question is how to miniaturize electronic ceramic components. We can prepare conventional bulk ceramics, or we can use stick film technology. These are matters such as screen printing, electrophoretic deposition, inject printing, and so on. These methods are based on a bottom up approach, which means that we can prepare films smaller films with smaller thickness ranging between one and 100 micrometers.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
Whoever is such distinct from the position markets require high temperature annealing and such high temperatures often impose many drawbacks. They can lead into substrate incompatibility, an increase production costs. In order to avoid this mentioned shortcomings, we need to know.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
To use another method instead, here are presented their solder position method, which is a unique spray coating process for depositing doesn't dance TIK films at room temperature. Since this is a room temperature process. We can deposit films onto a variety of substrates also onto substrates which are incompatible with high temperatures. So to sum up, a result position enables combining a lot of materials which are incompatible at high temperatures and this opens up new possibilities for developing new applications.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
And now to our work. This is our new result. Position operators at our Ultra Cool lab. We have prepared our soul relaxer for electric payment. Empty tech firms on to low-cost metal substrates. As you can see that the position was successfully managed to obtain dance Tik films with good adhesion. But For more information.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
About the processing and the results, please visit my orange poster with the number 63. Thank you for your attention.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
So the next speaker is Swati Vasudevan and she will talk about galaxies of gold nanoparticles with plasma. Thank you hi everyone, I'm assured about 7. I'm working in Department F6. I mean we are starting with plasma.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
So the story for this conference is the make the story of making gold and gold nanoparticle galaxies from a simple material. Like hydrogen chloric acid, it's a common precursor material for gold. But here I'm using just atmospheric pressure plasma jet for creating this goal.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
So this is my apparatus I will. So I was using that as a simple nebulizer for nebulizing the chloric acid and I was depositing that particles on the substrate with atmospheric plasma jet.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
So what I get was that galaxies with the gold nanoparticles with the various size distribution and it was noticeable that there was nanoparticles under 10 nanometer itself. So, uh.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
My the advantage of this market was it's a it was a single step process and comparing with the other chemical methods there was no other reagents are used to reduce this. Gold and it is easily reproducible. Experiment, it's quite simple and not time consuming that I was using like 10 five minutes from 5 minutes to 30 minutes to deposit a large. Cutting off a 1 centimeter square substrate.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
So For more information of about this work and future scopes. Please come to the post #35 thank you.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
Thanks, I will invite Martin Topoli for for the next lecture. Thank you very much. Welcome again, so today I'll be talking about titanium metal matrix composites as being the materials of the future. Where first question is where these materials can be used and a bit of a back story.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
So this is Alan. I think we all know Alan. He really likes to play with rockets, right? And he doesn't just like rockets. He wants to use them and he would really like to go to Mars. But I mean this is all good. The problem is that as you can see on this picture, Ellen is a bit sad, right? And the question is, why is Ellen said? Well, The thing is Ellen is sad because by in order to make his dream come true and this idea he's facing a lot of problems right now. And of course one of these problems is also materials which can be used for less space exploration. An aerospace in general industry. So what what are these kind of materials and what? What is the? Requirements of them well.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
These materials first need to be really lightweight, like federate, and they need to also be very strong. I mean, you need to have a very strong and resistant holding if you want to, let's say plowed through the meta right in the space or the space junk orbiting around our planet, right? And besides this tool, these properties. These materials also need to be fully dense. Now we used titanium because it's really lightweight an we used carbon nanotubes, you know, because they have very good material. Yeah, properties in terms of mechanical properties like Youngs Modulus and other things and we combine them into a metal matrix composite reinforced with carbon nanotubes. The problem here was the how to achieve a fully dense composite right? Because well, titanium is being cast at 1600 degrees, so almost 1700 is so hard that it actually destroys the carbon nanotubes and you have very high possibility of oxidizing the material when you're doing this so. Well, we use a specific method. It's called feel the sintering technique where you use pressure and an electric current to induce higher temperatures and the acronym of course is fast. And this actually is very suitable for this technique because as you can see, you can get to 850 degrees in just 10 seconds. So this really limits the oxidation properties and possibilities and of course retains all of the. Properties that we are looking for the mechanical properties in our material so.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
And actually, is weekend high increase compared to the pure titanium when we just added a little bit of carbon atoms into our sample, which I think in the future can make Happy Man. So this would be kind of.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
From my sight, these are the people who are helping with my research. Thank you for the love, of course, for your. For your pension, yeah and please come to the poster number 13 if you have any more questions regarding the novel technique that is fast. Thank you.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
The let me welcome the next President, Evelyn Gruden, with the story about carbon, aluminum and fluoride. Thank you for the nice presentation, and I'm Evelyn Groden from the Department of Inorganic Chemistry and Technology and I would like to tell you a story.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
About a scientist who is working in a lab, by the way, have you seen this picture before? Well, that's me. And this back Victor, the story this scientist is working on. The chemistry of aluminium.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
More specifically, on the chemistry of organo aluminum and these are the compounds that contain bonds between aluminium and carbon and they were not well known until 1950s when Carol Seigler developed the direct method for their synthesis and also he. Um? Found that they are good catalysts for olefin polymerization, which afterwards simplified the production of plastic. Well, Carrot Seigler was also awarded the Nobel Prize for his work.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
Well, nowadays organ aluminum compounds are used not only in organic synthesis, but also in the development of new inorganic materials such as zeolite superconductors or ceramics. Moreover, Oregon alone.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
William highlights are another group of organ aluminum compounds that also contain a Holo, Holo, Jeannette on. Besides aluminium and chlorine and such compounds are today used as Grignard like reagents or catalysts and they are well known only those that contain chlorine and bromine. On the other hand, the question is what about Florian? Well it turns out that organ aluminum floor rights are actually really rare due to the lack of. Conventional method for their preparation. But scientists believe that they correct exhibit. Really interesting property.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
And this is when the work of our scientist begins. Her goal was to introduce fluorine into organ aluminium compounds and to do this she used trimethyl aluminum, which she found in her lab and on fluoride reagent that was recently developed by her colleagues. But this was not enough because both of these reactants are really unstable.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
They actually tend to decompose in the presence of oxygen or water and to solve this problem, our scientists had to perform her experiments either in a glove box or by using standard Schlenk techniques.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
So awesome result. She obtained a new compound. More specifically, assault featuring a bulky cation and an anion that contains. Carbon, aluminium and fluorine bonds together. So this is just the beginning of our story and if you want to know more about the chemistry behind it.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
Please find me at the poster #22. Thank you for your attention.
