[0.0s - 29.0s]
Collect.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So I've just finished my PhD on the ATS Labs in France. We work our team works with machine learning and with media indexing content based image retrieval. Today what are present is work on indexing firm committed descriptors. As.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So let's start now. Start actually with the application. There was an application which motivated our research in this area which was image identification. Image identification also is also known as copy detection or near duplicate detection. It's an operation which consists in retrieving their regional from an image which has been modified. This is important cause images tend to be reused. They tend to be attached to new contexts. They tend to be. Reappropriated in new documents and then what happens is that the user comes to see the image in this new document and ask what's the original context? Who is the author when this image was created? What's the Copyright and of course all this context is attached to the original document and This is why it's important to retrieve this original 3.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Leave the meta data. There is an important application to this to cultural heritage and the culture institutions in general, like libraries, museums and archives. Users arrive is both cards with music book. And photo copies, and they want to see the original and the collections are in normals. If you can't retrieve the documents. If you don't have the references and this technology allows you to just scan the image and retrieved using the content. Also, beyond those external requests, often the image get separated from the metadata inside an institution, so someone forgets and imagine and ask. You have to be able to put this image together in the right place with the right people.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
OK, another important application is the detection of copyrights violations. So you have many institutions, press agencies, photo agencies who sell images, and of course those those institutions are very interesting known. If someone is using their images, I.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Julie now, of course what we're trying to do is not to retrieve exact copies. That would be easier. We try to be resistant to be robbers transformations, and there is a large variety of transformations and they can be potentially very intense.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Our solution is to use content based retrieval. We think that the solution is better than using. Text marks or watermarks because of course, those tags can be removed then can be incorrect. They can be lossed, so the visual content is a more reliable way to retrieve the image is the problem is that the raw visual information the pixels is? They are very similarly poor, so you have to use descriptors in order to do the match to use to do the search. Those descriptors can either be global. In that case, you attach a single descriptor to the entire image. The archetypical example is the color histogram. Or they can be local in that case, if you select different local features in the image, like for example points of interest and you attach different descriptors to each one of those features, perhaps the most noise that today is the SIFT descriptors, which are very rather they are the ones we use in our work.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Well, now to see the advantage of the local descriptor approach. Imagine what happens when you have a transformation. If the transmission is so strong that have global descriptor fails, it fails completely because you have a single descriptor. If it's damaged, changed to merge, you want to seem to be able to recover the document, but because they were, descriptors are many. You have a chance of at least some of the descriptors will survive the transformation, and you is still here.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Please return this document now. The architecture of this retrieval system is like that. You have this database of images. We will find the points of interest you describe each point individually and you put all the descriptors in a very large index in the various knowledge database. When the user wants to pose a question for the query, we will also find the points of interest in the query. You will describe each point of interest and then you have to match those is Bank of descriptors of the query with the queries in the database. This is potentially very complex. What we do is a very simple vote algorithm. So each descriptor in the query gets to vote for the most. Similar descriptors in the database. Those descriptors you will give a voltage to their image. That's what I mean. What we expect is that potentially bad images will receive some votes, but only the good images will receive a significant amount of votes. Well this is very robust. This works very well actually, but the problem is that instead of making one. Descriptor mention if we we we thought we were using global descriptors. Now we have potentially to match hundreds, even thousands of descriptors dance to match a single query. So if you want to do it's in a reasonable time, you have to match. The script was very fast.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So these are our working hypothesis. We have a large number of descriptors because we have many descriptors per image. We need to accelerate the matching because we also have made this trip to spread. Query descriptors are high dimensional, seems to descriptors for example, 128th dimension. And also we have some restrictions which are due to the technology, those largely the basis they want. Feet in primary memory, they won't fit in RAM so you have to use disks if you are using disks that means that you can't do random access to many random access. You have to favor sequential access. Our bank problem become helpful to my eyes at this high dimensional descriptor. Mention respect in the English.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
And technology. OK descriptor mention is mainly made only using this operation which is name is K nearest neighbor search for very simple operation. Actually what we want is to find the the key points in the descriptor space which are nearest to the query descriptor. The problem is that you don't want to do this by brute force. You don't want to simply sequentially. Compare the part of the script to each description. The database you want to sub, linear performance and if you want to be in your performance, you have to use indexing, but you know that indexing breaks down. For high dimensions you have this famous curse of dimensionality that makes indexing very difficult, very problematic for high dimensional spaces. What happens is that we are forced to accept approximate solutions we have. We cannot expect to have exact solutions at 100 dimensions, and even for most methods the compromise between speed and precision starts to be very bad at those dimensionalities. Well, the Concorde dad. Some people came with this.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Good idea of using multiple indexes. What we will do is that we will split our indexes and multiple sub index. Each sub indexes of lower dimensionality and then we will do the query on the sub indexes and aggregate the results to give the final answer.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
One example is this Med rank algorithm. It has a very radical way of reducing the dimensionality. Actually, each subindexes has one single dimension or project. My data on straight lines. The position in the in the in this line will give. A certain 1 dimensional value that you used to put the data on unsorted lists, and then I will use again voting algorithm. So are you alternate between those straight lines and give the opportunity of each story? Can you vote for the most nearest points in the line? The first point who gets voted by a significant amount of lines? I say OK this is the nearest neighbor. This works very well. This is a very good idea because of course when the data are 1 dimensional. I have a total order in the points. The points are simply a sorted list of points and the treating sorted list has many good algorithms. I have many good data structures that I can use, so the implementation of the sub index is very convenient.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
The problem is that when. Dimensionality becomes to be really high. Let's say fifty 7500 meter and breaks down for two reasons. First is that I have I start to have this lack of correlation between proximity in the lines and processing in the space. I can have a point which is the nearest and it is not particularly near to the query. In none of the lines. But even worse than that, because the data is the data on ties it I have many collisions. I have this situation that at each line many data which are not particularly near to the query in this space they have exactly the same value in the line because of quantization. OK, this two effects, they are enough to ruin the performance metric and I am forced to search for an alternative solution.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
My idea, the idea of our method is that we want to not have such a radical dimensionality reduction we don't have. We don't want to have one dimensional subindexes well. We want to have more demand than one dimensional, but when I have more than one dimension, what happens is that I lose the total order of the points. And this is bad because if I don't have Total War, they don't have data on a sorted list. I have more complex indexing methods on this on this sub indexes. But what I can try to do is to create a sort of Total War there, even in more than one dimension. Of course, this is impossible. I can give a total order an average arbitrary Total War, different role first, but this doesn't capture the distance between points. But then I have those space filling curves. Which are this those magical fractal curves which passed by every point of the space 8 and they have this vicinity sensitive behavior that at least the locali they they preserve the distances between the points. So I now I can give a Total War door to the points that at least locally it respects the distance.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
OK. Of course it's impossible to do it globally, so in space filling curve I will have some points where I have discontinued this. I have some bounderies where very perverse. Just continue to happen so I have potentially very near points which fall very distance in the curves, so all the art of using those space filling curves to do the indexing out of the descriptor indexing is how to deal with those boundaries.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Facts. Our position to do to solve this boundary effects things is to use multiple curves, but not only that, use. At those lower dimensionality curves, so we will not be as radical as mid rank, or we will not have one dimensional, but we have a lower dimension. Let's say if you have a 128 to see if the descriptors you perhaps have 8 curves of 16 dimensions or four curves is 32 dimensions. Some compromise between the number of curves and the dimensionality of.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Each curve. Now what remains is to choose how many curves and how to share the dimensions between the curves. Nowadays we do, it's in a very simple way. The argument is that you cannot have many curves becausw each curve is a new rental access to this, because when you are finding the position and the curve, you have to make a relaxes. Don't have much of a choice, so you won't have more than 8 or 10 curves after Dad. Performance starts to breakdown and for sharing the dimensions. I just do a partition.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Single partition. OK, now for some empirical evaluation. Our interesting culture heritage shows in our choice of databases. This first database is a very small one comes from the State Archives of Windows arrives and is composed by historic photography. We have 100,000 and 500 images that are transformed images for 100 originals we. Computer the descriptors for on this on those images and then for each query we try to find the 20 nearest neighbors and then the idea was to see how have the methods found the right originals. How was the compromise between the precision? Have I found the writer descriptors ended?

[551.0s - 580.0s]
And here are the results. I compared to other chewy state of the art methods, which also uses paintings based in curves. This red one is my memories by Myron agrees. The blue one is by the hour and how they also use multiple curves, but each curve has the entire space and to deal with boundaries it will do translations of the points and the minor has quite an interesting idea its uses. Just one curve and we feel instead creating multiple instance of the data. It will multiplies things of the data. OK here we've arrived at the number of curves for for multi curves and we also 424 and eight form curves for 8 and 16 for real and for mine are we've arrived various the number of instances of the data and it's quite clear that Mood Curse has a much better comp.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Eyes. We tested also for a large database. This is your database of paint is a public domain database of paintings about 10,000 images. Original images.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
It was about the same and again we see that the much curves has a better compromise, has a better for the same speed that has a better precision here. What we variant was how many descriptors search in each day.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
We also made some experience on the system to see, and of course all those methods are approximate methods and purposes that first methods and how this loss of precision would affect the system, so we. We ran that the system with that architecture that I showed before using sequential search. We have perfect results and maybe of one and using much worse. What happens is that 20% of the of the votes of the Buddha votes our loss, but we still have a perfect match, which is not very surprising 'cause we have so many descriptors per query that losing 20% of them doesn't hurt the performance. What is interesting? Is that the speedup is very significant. We are able to change it from the sequential search to text to this approximate method we have a very significant this data.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
The conclusion is that using good indexing allow us to use the power to profit from the power of local descriptors without paying too heavy penalty in terms of speed and that space filling curves will allow us to give the points of this total order kind of distance aware toward are that we allow us to use the very convenient and efficient sorted list as a sorted list data structures. And multi curves. We all use a combination of. Multiple curves and lower dimensionality curves to make the space filling curves work and conquer the problems of boundary facts.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
OK, that would be all. Thank you. OK thank you. Questions. So in your slides, please one slide where you said you you show that you got almost like 2 times faster. I hate with a single single space filling curve, so compared to this, yeah, so how many? How much storage did use? How many curves did you use in that in that slide to get that much speed up up? Sorry, down one. Then Yep.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
This guy so how so you get OK, this one is 4 curves. OK so in order to get almost twice speed up you need exponential amount of storage is actually precision so I think that what we have here is that for for comperable speed we have almost twice the precision compared to Liao and perhaps at 5050%. More than my number. Thank you 'cause the speed is on the result of excellence. I would like to ask about the application side of this technology. You mentioned that you can identify the Copyright violation. How do you? Attach the property of the image and how do you. Maintain the data properties of them images. For example, this is the how to say Copyright. This Copyright of this image is owned by someone else. OK, actually what I do. My part of the application is just to give give the person an ID. Let's say this is image #25 or image in #2000 after that. All the meter data will be stored somewhere. I'm not concerned about how to make the data are stored or managed. For example, it could be a simple relational scheme that this this tag designed. The tag will retrieve all the metadata or could be an XML file, but once you identify the image, the important thing is that once you have want to have this image signification, then you can retrieve all the other meta data. Thank you. OK, thank you again.
