So the case for computational biology, and I give an example which would be the Co regulation of gene expression. Are involved in development, so I think of this is a data exploration problem. But you can contrast that sort of clustering approach with this sort of computational systems biology approach, which would be to create a detailed mechanistic model of the system, and then fit the parameters of this model to the data. This is the data fit term, but when you add those two together so normally naive non Bayesians basically spend their time working with this and that says get over to the left hand side. Make the length scale as short as possible. The optimization of this you would do by gradient based methods. So you actually have a mechanistic modeling in the way. And this is our inference of the transcription factor activity. So I work very closely with Magnus Rattray, who's also moved from Manchester to Sheffield. If I tell you I'm working with differential equations, you're all very good at posterior inference, and you know about this likelihood here, so you immediately assume I'm doing mechanistic modeling. Whatever the dwarf planet and Gauss became famous because of that, and he was combining domestic. Which is responsible for, well, it's responsible for repairing DNA damage and activates DNA repair proteins. The more P 53 is in the cell, the more likely the cell is to undergo cell death. We've got some knowledge that this is an actual target of P53 DNA damage. So what this is basically saying is what you see is the M RNA is a scaled and offset version of the transcription factor activity. Can a biologist fix a radio lays make? I mean, in some sense, the analogy I think maybe it was, it's a good analogy in a broad sense, but it's also bad analogy, because biological systems are much more robust than radios are, but he does have this phrase in the paper, which is an old saying from some country or another that it's difficult to find a black cat in a dark room, especially if there's no cat. File from the Western blot. So what you see on the left is the one Gaussian sample from this covariance matrix. So we're going to look at two points from those 25 points, and we're going to look at F1 and F2 an what I've shown here is actually the numerical values from that covariance matrix. F1F2 plotted here and here and then. These need to be combined with biological data. Let's build mechanistic models based on biochemical knowledge of the system.