And for ontology matching evaluation. So in a similar study we have proposed the gaze one another, the mapping selection and the structure and a set of structural methods. This time we have used different data, set the benchmark 2011 data set from the OEE campaign, which contains 103 tests test cases. So. On two groups of methods, again, first standard structural methods which basically look on the explore standard structural relations between the entities such as. We take two entities and will look at their descendants, their ancestors there leave suggestions and so on. And then we have also implemented a more advanced technique which is called similarity propagation based on the similarity flooding algorithm. Looking into the behavior of structural metrics when we add noise into the input that they take from terminological. Measures so how do we define noise? So at the terminological level we have used the identical metric again. Animal structural level. We have taken this input and selected different. We have selected the threshold filter for each of the structural methods that we use with respect to what was the best threshold filter that we found in the previous experiment. The terminological methods when used alone and when used in combination with structural and semantic methods. Is the conference data set from the Ontology Alignment Evaluation Initiative? So at terminological levels level we use three different methods to produce the initial mappings or the input mappings. And this one has shown to perform best for what concerns the global methods terminological methods. At structural level, for the same reasons we have used the SP methods, the similarity propagation method, because it performs better than the other structural methods. And on a semantic level, we have implemented the global acknowledges optimization algorithm. We see the different values of the mapping threshold for the technological measure. Performs also quite well and is also stable with respect to the different values of the mapping threshold. Semantic matter in the next slide. I tried to bring out this point that ontology mapping system has to be seen as a combination of several components and these components interact with one another in certain way and it is important to understand these interactions and behaviors that this implies in order to be able to take some important decisions in the from engineering point of view. Are created in a decentralized and strongly human bias manner which leads to the existence of many ontologies which tend to describe the same or similar domains or intersecting domains. So in a generic ontology matching framework, we would assume that we might have something like that. So what's inside of this ontology matching system? The first one explores the relation between the mapping selection module and the terminological measures. Would you land determine the structural based measures? Structural semantic measures are compared with respect to the mapping selection, would you? So in the first experiment we have studied the interaction between mapping selection and terminological measures, and we have been particularly interested in the behavior of global terminological methods as compared to local ones. I'll come to that in a minute. This data set is very appropriate for this kind of task because it contains real world ontologies that are not too big, but they are very heterogeneous on Terminologically speaking and they describe the same domain. So these are methods that decompose labels into token 1st and then compare the similarity of their tokens and hybrid methods that also use in addition to string based techniques. They use some linguistic information whether it will be internal or external related to the entities that are of interest. And the simplest way of providing such a combination of local methods will be just to take some kind of a linear combination of these methods of the results of the set of measures, local measures.