It's a great honor to give a lecture bearing the name of Albert Sidney Hornby and also quite a challenge, so I hope you will find me worthy of the honor. So. Of linguistic data available to writers of dictionaries, and this has led to the questioning and in some cases the abandonment of working practices established over 200 years ago. And this time he described a second revolution. Second corpus revolution brought about by the arrival of the web, and most importantly, powerful profile. Argued by capital require Linn County lexicographers show little interest in the field of translation, at least as a source for dictionary building. This may be due to the fact that translation specialists and lexicographers are looking for different types of equivalence. Context dependent equivalents for translation and less context dependent. More general equivalents for lexicography. When you look at current translation corpora, you find that there are some very good ones, but they are not always available. You have UN documents etc. So the corpora that end. When they are used, the corporate that are used are monolingual corpora. Monolingual corpora of the source and target languages, for example. On the whole, in bilingual lexicography translation equivalents are usually provided by bilingual experts who can be lexicographers or translators, so translation corpora are usually not used. Do that translation corpora are not viable. The price that would have to be paid if editorial teams were to use bilingual corpora is too high. For example, that translation corpora produced too many equivalents candidates. That every one of these equivalents seems essential to lexicographers. And then pedagogical lexicography, that is lexicography designed to meet the needs of non native users, especially advanced learners. And my focus. I will focus on 2 languages. Keep in mind, is the extended view of phraseology. The few advocated by double Vansky in his introduction to IGL Special issue on phraseology and Dictionaries 2015. As a linguistic discipline concerned with fixed expressions, phraseology itself has recently significantly expanded its purview. Has tended to focus on semantically non compositional units. Figurative idioms, sayings, proverbs, semantically non compositional compounds. The first question is why focus on general bilingual dictionaries? Well, the first reason is that they are clearly the poor relation of the corpus revolution. As pointed out by Nessi, although it is commonly believed that monolingual dictionaries are superior to bilingual dictionaries in terms of their usefulness as language learning tools, attitude and ownership surveys have found that learners generally prefer to use bilingual dictionaries. You find that there's a relatively good coverage of semantically non compositional multi word units. However. There is still a very poor coverage of a wide range of usually fixed multi word units with grammatical or discursive or pragmatic functions. I'm thinking here of multi word prepositions like in contrast to multi word conjunctions like on condition that multi word adverbs like as a result and a host of longer sequences like to the best of my knowledge the extent to which. And we found that to our surprise, but then corpus linguistics is always full of surprises, and This is why I like it. 43% of the occurrences of the adverb yet are part of multi word units and yet yet another as yet yet again yet more yet 2 plus infinitive etc. They are what power calls, accidents of graphic continuity really like. And therefore they would deserve to be fully fledged entries in dictionaries on a par with single words. And as we will see, this is certainly not the case today. Palmer calls these Poly logs or intimate word groups and gives examples like in spite of for a long time in view of the fact that as a matter of fact and hardly ever so actually Palmer was a fierce advocate of the extended view of phraseology. Monolingual native language corpora that is large collection of texts produced by native speakers. And these corpora played a key role in the development of monolingual learners dictionaries MLD's. They provided a considerable enrichment of the information on syntactic, lexical, and idiomatic usage that learners need in order to produce language. They can be identified through the engram method used by Biber ET al to extract lexical bundles. It seems to me, but I may be wrong, but from what I read, it seems to me that this technique is not being used much in general bilingual lexicography, and yet it could considerably enrich the phraseological coverage of bilingual dictionaries. We actually used a very small corpus, a corpus of 1 million word, of which in French is the label Frost Corpus, which I collected in Luverne, which contains articles on politics, economics, culture, technology and tourism. What we did. So we looked at coverage, are the corpus based extract of the corpus extracted multi word units present in general bilingual dictionary, and if so, how are they presented? And the second thing we looked at was the translation. Are there differences between the corpus translations and the dictionary translations? We found that 85 to 88% of the multiword units were included in some form or other in the bilingual dictionaries. Now the units that were present. And if you want examples. And then a very small percentage are grounded, headward status that was 5% inhibition, Collins and 14% inertia talks 1st. So it's quite confusing. Wish to see Multiword units, given the same status as the usual Edwards. In the dictionary there are usually one or two undifferentiated translations. I must have made a mistake here anyway. But this is a very. Relatively context, free translations. Some of them are infrequent and highly context bound, and they can be excluded. For example, for Obudu court I showed the two translations of at the end of the day and ultimately, but the corpus also contained in the final analysis in the end, and when all is said and done, which are excellent translations. So clearly the advantage of translation corpus data is that they draw lexicographic's attention, lexicographers attention to some excellent translations that they may not think of spontaneously, although they may be excellent bilingual experts. So my conclusion is that the use of bilingual corpus data is certainly useful, but I think it's also viable if lexicographers have tools that allow them to identify the range of translation equivalents quickly and effortlessly. Provides in these little boxes translation candidates for this particular phrase, as well as as you can see examples. Even provides as you can see at the bottom frequent chunks, lexical bundles with this particular expression here or material. And here we need to mention the pioneering work of Palmer and Hornby, who paved the way for a more phrasal approach to LEXIS. This is a quote from Hornby 1954. As Atkins said in 2002, lexicographers working on bilingual dictionaries need some bilingual form of the word sketch tool to help them use parallel corpus data within the time constraints of commercial dictionary production production. And actually this is happening today because in, for example in Kovar ET al. But there doesn't seem to have been a lot of active work in this area in the last 10 years. One of the reasons may well be the general economic gloom in the dictionary making sector. This may well be, but I think there's another reason, and that is that it's not really possible to add many more error nodes within the framework of monolingual learners dictionaries, because a large proportion of lexical errors are L1 specific and monolingual learners. In fact, they're doubly generic. For example for production. Write a letter to a friend and narrative. Customization in terms of L1 background. Lexical and lexical grammatical errors vary according to the learners. Learners use dictionaries for many purposes, and one of them is when they have to write academic texts and an increasing number of learners around the world have to write academic texts in English these days. These two types of customization are very difficult to implement in paper dictionaries, but can easily be implemented in web based dictionaries. It's an integrated web based tool to help non native speakers write academic text in English. And part of the dictionary content is customized according to the learners Mother tongue and for the moment we cater for Chinese learners, Dutch learners, French learner, German learners and Spanish learners of English so. Attested difficulties with academic words. So we cover problems with meaning problems of frequency, of positioning, of punctuation, and of course, most importantly contextualize use with particular focus on collocations and on lexical. So we've used the academic and fiction part of the BNC to extract and you academic keyword list. We use several corpora of native academic writing to identify the typical phraseology of academic words in terms of collocations and lexical bundles. We use discipline specific corpora and the BNC academic to give direct access to concordances so that learners can look up any word not only academic words, but any word in discipline specific corpora, and we use the international corpus of learner English to identify recurrent learner errors and design error nodes and exercises. The advent of the computer corpus that has allowed the phrasal approach to LEXIS truly to materialize. Who in his Seminole book Corpus Concorded collocation? Put forward his idiom principle and his ideas about the contextual approach to meaning. First of all, the search option you can search via the translation of academic words into your mother tongue. The second type of L1 customization is the warnings and the error nodes for the moment. Note the errors produced by French learners, but there is ongoing work on Chinese in collaboration with Fudan University and I should say that I'd be very pleased to collaborate with some of you to produce L1 specific error nodes for other learner population. But we're very much aware that the tool suffers from one major weakness, and the weaknesses that learners will only look up words whose use their unsure about. If a learner does not know that on the country is not always the equivalent of a contrary, they will not look it up. So this led us to add a new functionality to the dictionary, which we call the highlighter. Which allows users to cut and paste their text on the interface, which draws their attention to potential errors highlighted in orange and two real errors highlighted in red. Chen has lexicography reap the full benefit of learner learner corpus revolution or the corpus revolution. Lexicography has reaped a great deal of benefit, but I would say not yet. Day is show that, as regards bilingual lexicography, you can benefit a lot by using simple techniques like N gram extraction, which allow you to improve the coverage. Also that you can benefit by using translation corpora, even small ones, to improve the quality of the translation equivalents. I hope to have shown that you can benefit a lot from using learner corpora to tailor the entries to the need of specific L1 populations that the web based format is the ideal formats because it allows a high degree of flexibility and it brings dictionaries closer to use his needs. So the learner corpus are evolution in applied linguistics. Alona corporate contains samples of written or spoken language produced by foreign or second language learners. And for me they are the ideal resource to study learners use of language, identify their difficulties and their difficulties can be errors, of course, but not only it can be patterns of over and under use. Now it so happens that most learner corpus research focuses on the more advanced stages of acquisition, so I think it's particularly relevant to talk about learner corpora within the framework of my Hornby lecture, because Hornby was the originator of dictionaries for advanced learners. I always find reasons to be optimistic, but I think we do because for example, for bilingual lexicography there are new corpora like the international comparable corpus, which is being compiled by range by several researchers, in which will produce fully comparable corpora in nine languages. We have an you spoken corpus, which will enable us to inform the spoken. Are part of the dictionary. Now the last thing I'd like to say is that corpora are not the be all and end all of lexicography. In the concise Oxford Dictionary of Linguistics, this is what is Rd corpus linguistics of investigation. Based on the analysis of corpora, often by linguists who discount or seek to disparage other sources of evidence. When I think most serious corpus linguists know that there are other sources of evidence, because after all, corporate are just collections of language data, undoubtedly dated with high potential value, but data nonetheless, and even pre analyzed by powerful software tools they use in lexicography will always require. Lexicographers still have to use intuition and judgment in selecting, interpreting, and setting out the evidence rather than simply relaying it to the user's quasi scientific truth. Learner corpora were essentially learner corpora of English as a foreign language. If you go to our website and you have the URL there, you will find a web page entitled learner corpora around the world on that web page we try and and keep a comprehensive survey of all the learner corpora that we know of. Big cause the very first concrete application of learner corpus data is lexicography and more particular monolingual learners dictionaries. In a very early paper, main gayan Randall in 1987 wrote a paper anticipating learners errors implications for dictionary writers. And this led to learn a corpus based error nodes in modeling learner's dictionaries. There were notes and the first dictionary to do that was the Longman Dictionary. One of them here we call them, get it right boxes and you can see that these notes are fairly extended and they contain examples of authentic errors and their corrections and explanations, which times are quite lengthy and detailed. Have corporate been used in bilingual lexicography, and if So what type of corpus? And for what part of the dictionary making process? And there is really very little information about the corpora that have been used in bilingual lexicography, and exactly how they have been used in in the dictionary making process. Theoretically, the most obvious type of corpus to use in bilingual lexicography is the translation corpus. Unlike monolingual lexicography, where it would be unthinkable today not to use single language corpora.