[0.0s - 29.0s]
I would like to thank the organizing committee and in particular seem on crack and also the Hornby Trust for inviting me to give the Hornby lecture at this year's conference. It's a great honor to give a lecture bearing the name of Albert Sidney Hornby and also quite a challenge, so I hope you will find me worthy of the honor. Actually, the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary of current English was the first monolingual Dictionary of English I ever owned. It was on my list of required books when I started my studies as an English undergraduate at the University of Louisville. In 1968, exactly 50 years ago. Wow. It remains my trusted friend throughout my studies and has been a faithful companion ever since, so I owe a lot to Hornby. So. Today I'm going to talk about the corpus revolution. In 1992, Randall and Stock published long three part article entitled The Corpus Revolution. In which they highlighted the major changes brought about by the emergence of corpora. And this is what they wrote. The past decade has witnessed a revolution in the nature.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Of linguistic data available to writers of dictionaries, and this has led to the questioning and in some cases the abandonment of working practices established over 200 years ago. In 2008 Michael Randall published a second article entitled the Corpus Revolution Revisited. And this time he described a second revolution. Second corpus revolution brought about by the arrival of the web, and most importantly, powerful profile. The lexical profiling software tools such as the sketch engine, which allow lexicographers to cope with much larger corpora. The corpora that have played a key role in this revolution are undoubtedly.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Monolingual native language corpora that is large collection of texts produced by native speakers. And these corpora played a key role in the development of monolingual learners dictionaries MLD's. They provided a considerable enrichment of the information on syntactic, lexical, and idiomatic usage that learners need in order to produce language. In other words, for their encoding purposes. And this led to a considerable extension of the field of phraseology, which clearly moved to center stage. I like this quote from Williams and million words tend to flock together. This is something that we that is obvious now to all of us and this we owe to the corpus revolution. Of course, phraseology existed before the emergence of corpora.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And here we need to mention the pioneering work of Palmer and Hornby, who paved the way for a more phrasal approach to LEXIS. This is a quote from Hornby 1954. And knowledge of how to put words together is as important as perhaps more important than a knowledge of their meanings. However, it is clearly.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The advent of the computer corpus that has allowed the phrasal approach to LEXIS truly to materialize. And here clearly one of the major figures, if not the major figure, is John Sinclair. Who in his Seminole book Corpus Concorded collocation? Put forward his idiom principle and his ideas about the contextual approach to meaning. Which in essence, means that phraseology is often discriminatory in terms of sense. In 1994 I wrote it.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Article entitled The Corpus Levolution, but he wasn't the corpus revolution, it was more limited. Revolution the learner corpus revolution and you can see that at the time I was very was young. Then I didn't even add a question mark right? So the learner corpus are evolution in applied linguistics. I was sure even then, that one day it would be a revolution. He was perhaps a bit premature and overoptimistic. So what? I learned corpora. Alona corporate contains samples of written or spoken language produced by foreign or second language learners. And for me they are the ideal resource to study learners use of language, identify their difficulties and their difficulties can be errors, of course, but not only it can be patterns of over and under use. And on that basis, informed pedagogical tools, and I think all pedagogical tools can be informed by learner corpus data and in particular learner's dictionaries. Now it so happens that most learner corpus research focuses on the more advanced stages of acquisition, so I think it's particularly relevant to talk about learner corpora within the framework of my Hornby lecture, because Hornby was the originator of dictionaries for advanced learners. So information that we're going to gather from learner corpora is going to be particularly relevant for advanced learner's dictionaries. Now at the beginning.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Learner corpora were essentially learner corpora of English as a foreign language. Fortunately, this has changed and now there are corpora of other learner varieties, not only English. If you go to our website and you have the URL there, you will find a web page entitled learner corpora around the world on that web page we try and and keep a comprehensive survey of all the learner corpora that we know of. There are currently 141 listed on that web page and 60% of them focus on learner English, but 40% focus on other learner varieties and you can see that. Slovene is one of them. So I think learner corpora are getting more global with the time. So I think this is a nice development within the framework of this conference. No, the link between learner corpora and lexicography is a is a strong one.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Big cause the very first concrete application of learner corpus data is lexicography and more particular monolingual learners dictionaries. In a very early paper, main gayan Randall in 1987 wrote a paper anticipating learners errors implications for dictionary writers. In that paper, they highlighted the benefit gained from analyzing learners errors so as to tailor dictionary entries to learn as attested needs. And this led to learn a corpus based error nodes in modeling learner's dictionaries. There were notes and the first dictionary to do that was the Longman Dictionary. And they use the Longman learner's corpus for that purpose and the Cambridge Dictionary they use their own Cambridge Learner corpus. And the Macmillan Dictionary used the International Corpus of Learner English, which was collected at UVA in collaboration with many teams internationally. And so this was a very fruitful collaboration, and we in louvar we designed the error notes, and you can see.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
One of them here we call them, get it right boxes and you can see that these notes are fairly extended and they contain examples of authentic errors and their corrections and explanations, which times are quite lengthy and detailed. I think this was good work, but I also think that is possible to go further. And in the last part of my talk I will get back to this return to this and suggest ways in which we can push things. Further's all of this concerned monolingual dictionaries, but what about bilingue?

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Or dictionaries. Have corporate been used in bilingual lexicography, and if So what type of corpus? And for what part of the dictionary making process? Well, the first observation I'd like to make is that there is very little information on corpus used in bilingual lexicography. I looked and looked. I read lots of articles as called the Web. And there is really very little information about the corpora that have been used in bilingual lexicography, and exactly how they have been used in in the dictionary making process. Theoretically, the most obvious type of corpus to use in bilingual lexicography is the translation corpus. But this point, she told by Solki such corpora have not been exploited significantly in bilingual dictionary compilation. Unlike monolingual lexicography, where it would be unthinkable today not to use single language corpora. So the question is. Why are translation corpora under used in Bailey?

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Will lexicography one reason, could be that is? Argued by capital require Linn County lexicographers show little interest in the field of translation, at least as a source for dictionary building. This may be due to the fact that translation specialists and lexicographers are looking for different types of equivalence. Context dependent equivalents for translation and less context dependent. More general equivalents for lexicography. But there is certainly a more practical reason why translation corpora are under used in bilingual lexicography, and that is that there is a clear lack of large representative, readily available translation corpora and I should add high quality translation corpora and then return to this later. Actually. When you look at current translation corpora, you find that there are some very good ones, but they are not always available. That the range of registers represented is quite limited and certain cannot qualify as representative Europarl only have parliamentary debates. You have UN documents etc. But the most important weakness from my point of view is the fact that in many of these corpora, the translation direction is unknown. It's impossible to separate original text from translated text. This is a major weakness in view of the presence of translation ease. In translated text, even in text translated by professional translators, you have universals. You rules of translation that player part, but also you have calx. You have even errors, so not being able to distinguish between original text and translated texts is a real is really a major weakness when you want to use them to design A bilingual dictionary. So the corpora that end. There's a third reason, which is the lack of user friendly software tools to facilitate the processing of translation corporate by lexicographers. But as we will see, this is Fortunately changing now. So translation corpora are not used a lot, but.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
When they are used, the corporate that are used are monolingual corpora. Monolingual corpora of the source and target languages, for example. In the English Irish dictionary. Uh, the the editors have used a monolingual corpus of English or very big one of 1.7 billion words to produce a very rich lexical database. The Denty database, which informed the English part of the dictionary, and they also used a smaller monolingual corpus of Irish. On the whole, in bilingual lexicography translation equivalents are usually provided by bilingual experts who can be lexicographers or translators, so translation corpora are usually not used. And in fact, then I'll use becausw. Some scholars argue.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Do that translation corpora are not viable. This is what Atkinson, Rundle wrote. The price that would have to be paid if editorial teams were to use bilingual corpora is too high. They give several reasons for this. For example, that translation corpora produced too many equivalents candidates. That every one of these equivalents seems essential to lexicographers. And that the production line grinds to a halt. I don't really agree with them. I agree with Michael Randall, most of the time, but here I don't really agree. I agree that translation corpora generate a lot of translation equivalents, but I certainly don't agree that everyone of them necessarily seems essential to lexicographers in that the production line needs to grind to a halt. Will get back to this. So the.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Objective and focus of my presentation in the following minutes will be to first of all suggest two ways in which corpus use can be strengthened, and I'm sure there are many more ways, but I'm not only going to talk about what I, you know I'm familiar with. So on the one hand I'm going to talk about general bilingual lexicography, and I will have nothing to say about more specialized domain specific or technical lexicography. Because it's not my field. And then pedagogical lexicography, that is lexicography designed to meet the needs of non native users, especially advanced learners. And my focus. Will be on the productive use of phraseology. I will focus on 2 languages. The two languages are Master Best English and French, and my focus will be on electronic dictionaries and more particularly web based ones, because as I argued in 2012, they have the key advantages of customization, hybridization, efficiency of access, corpus integration, and the integration of more and better. Data. So my focus will be on phraseology and I want to say straightaway. That's what I.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Keep in mind, is the extended view of phraseology. The few advocated by double Vansky in his introduction to IGL Special issue on phraseology and Dictionaries 2015. As a linguistic discipline concerned with fixed expressions, phraseology itself has recently significantly expanded its purview. So this extended view of phraseology includes the kinds of units that have always been included in phraseology. In other words, semantically non compositional units, such as idioms, spilled the beans or pay compounds like red tape or other phrases like a case in point. But the extent if you also include semantically compositional units such as collocations, give a talk more transparent compounds like staff regulations or complex prepositions, like in favor of. Lexicography

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Has tended to focus on semantically non compositional units. Figurative idioms, sayings, proverbs, semantically non compositional compounds. And it's symptomatic. I find that in ideal special issue on phraseology and dictionary. Although Dubba Volsky advocates this extended view of phraseology, four of the five articles in the issue are actually on idioms. So we can see that this extended view is not yet really integrated into dictionaries. So let's start with.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
General bilingual lexicography. And more particularly, the contribution of monolingual and bilingual corpora.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
The first question is why focus on general bilingual dictionaries? Well, the first reason is that they are clearly the poor relation of the corpus revolution. The second reason is that bilingual dictionary are the most popular dictionaries among users. As pointed out by Nessi, although it is commonly believed that monolingual dictionaries are superior to bilingual dictionaries in terms of their usefulness as language learning tools, attitude and ownership surveys have found that learners generally prefer to use bilingual dictionaries. When you look at the kind of phraseology that is included in bilingual dictionaries.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
You find that there's a relatively good coverage of semantically non compositional multi word units. And there has recently been a lot of progress in the treatment of collocations. When I compare today's bilingual dictionaries with the bilingual dictionary I used when I was a student. There's an amazing difference right in the past there was no information on colocation, you just had a range of of translations and no indication as to when or where to use them. However. There is still a very poor coverage of a wide range of usually fixed multi word units with grammatical or discursive or pragmatic functions. I'm thinking here of multi word prepositions like in contrast to multi word conjunctions like on condition that multi word adverbs like as a result and a host of longer sequences like to the best of my knowledge the extent to which. And things like that. Now these chunks are really important. They are actually very numerous. In an article that I wrote with my colleague Mariola Fair in 2013, we looked at the phraseology of high frequency adverbs. And we found that to our surprise, but then corpus linguistics is always full of surprises, and This is why I like it. 43% of the occurrences of the adverb yet are part of multi word units and yet yet another as yet yet again yet more yet 2 plus infinitive etc. This is really a surprise. We knew there were going to be multi word units, but we didn't know that 43% of all the occurrences of yet in our corpus were to be part of multi word units. And we did the same for French, for the French adverb on core, and the percentage was even higher. 51% of the occurrences of our core were part of multi word units. Units like Walker who Bianco Miss Encore Les on Blanco, Apews uncle, Uncle Hemker, ET cetera. Now, many of these multiword units.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Are actually word like. They are what power calls, accidents of graphic continuity really like. That way of putting it. It's just by accident that they're written into 3 words, right? And therefore they would deserve to be fully fledged entries in dictionaries on a par with single words. And as we will see, this is certainly not the case today. Palmer calls these Poly logs or intimate word groups and gives examples like in spite of for a long time in view of the fact that as a matter of fact and hardly ever so actually Palmer was a fierce advocate of the extended view of phraseology. Now these multi word units are often semantically compositional and so they are less conspicuous. It's easy to miss them, and they're often police helmasaur polyfunctional, so they're difficult to translate, so there's certainly worthy of lexicographical attention. Now the nice thing is that these units can easily be.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
He extracted. They can be identified through the engram method used by Biber ET al to extract lexical bundles. That is the most frequent recurring sequences of contiguous words. It seems to me, but I may be wrong, but from what I read, it seems to me that this technique is not being used much in general bilingual lexicography, and yet it could considerably enrich the phraseological coverage of bilingual dictionaries. This is something that came out very strongly from recent research I carried out with my colleague Mahula Fair, and which was published in three Articles, 2000 and 1213 and 16. And I also wrote an article on this myself in French this time. And this article is impressed. So I'm now going to give you a little summary very brief of some of the findings of our 2012 study.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Starting with the data and methodology. We actually used a very small corpus, a corpus of 1 million word, of which in French is the label Frost Corpus, which I collected in Luverne, which contains articles on politics, economics, culture, technology and tourism. What we did. Was extract automatically extract all the sequences of two to five words with a minimum frequency of 20? This gave us over 6000 different sequences. Then Mario and I manually selected the phrases which we thought were dictionary worthy. And. We then had a list of 425 multi word units which we thought were dictionary worthy. And by the way it was amazing how similar our lists were. We did this work independently and our list were really very very similar. So these are a few examples of these dictionary worthy units. And then.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
What we did was to compare. These units, or to compare let's say to check whether these units were present in bilingual dictionary. So we looked at coverage, are the corpus based extract of the corpus extracted multi word units present in general bilingual dictionary, and if so, how are they presented? And the second thing we looked at was the translation. Are there differences between the corpus translations and the dictionary translations? And if so, can significant trends be identified? The translation corpora used were all three. All three corporate we used were corpora where the original and translated versions were distinct, so we knew which Weather French was original French or translated French. This is really important, so we used a part of the europarl corpus the La Belle France Corpus and the place ecopass. And the value would electronic dictionary we used were Auberon, Collins and a shed Oxford. So let's look at the results into.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Of coverage. We found that 85 to 88% of the multiword units were included in some form or other in the bilingual dictionaries. Now you can look at this positively or negatively right. You can say all this is great, or you can say, well, wait a minute. This was a 1 million word corpus, a very small corpus, and we still have 50 to 60 multi multi word units. That two bilingual experts found were really important, and they're not there at all. So you can look at it positively or negatively. Now the units that were present. Where most of the tide included as subentries. Now you can think perhaps this is not important. We're talking about electronic dictionaries, so it doesn't matter whether phrases introduced as an entry or a subentry well. It does matter alot because these phrases introduce a subentries, are difficult to find, and we were very surprised to see that because we didn't expect it, we thought in an electronic dictionary. Phrases would be very easy to find, but they're not. And if you want examples. You have to read articles because I don't have the time to give them to you today. But perhaps more importantly, when a phrase is introduced as a subentry, he tends to get a very shallow lexicographic treatment. So, for example, the polysemy of the phrases is not really exploited, and neither are style and not. Neither are style restrictions included. So it doesn't matter, and that's about 50%. For 25% of the cases, it's even worse because the phrases are only introduced in examples, so they're really less visible yet. And more importantly, the translations are highly context bound. Sometimes I mean they're not generalizable at all, there just a translation in that example, but no way could you extrapolate it to other contexts. And then a very small percentage are grounded, headward status that was 5% inhibition, Collins and 14% inertia talks 1st. And to be honest we looked at these phrases and we couldn't find any difference between the phrases that were given head worth status and those that weren't. So it's quite confusing. So there's clearly a long way to go before fulfilling Sinclair's. Wish to see Multiword units, given the same status as the usual Edwards. A full, of course, Sinclair's wish is not realistic for all types of multiword units, but I think we can agree that it's certainly desirable for word like units. This is just to illustrate what I've said.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
This is an example of the the way only fair. the French phrase on if it is treated in the ash at Oxford Dictionary. You can see that all we get examples and one of these examples. For example. No, I wasn't is really a really context bound translation of only fair. Um in the.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Robin Collins dictionary. You can see that it's a bit better here because the polysemy of honesty is taken into account. No, what about?

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Out the translation equivalent. In the dictionary there are usually one or two undifferentiated translations. So for example, for the French phrase, or would you caught in Russia talks first? All you get is ultimately and in RVC, so I don't know why put Rider so here. Oh, that's strange. Not sure why I, I thought I only looked at Ashley, talks fast and Robert Collins. I must have made a mistake here anyway. In the River so dictionary, which is another electronic dictionary, all you get is at the end of the day. But this is a very. This is just an example, but often the case that all you get is 1 translation, sometimes 2. The translations are often literal. This is very very striking. For example, the prison pluse tends to be translated as more and more and a very common translation increasingly tends to be absent or to be demoted. And Dillaman man, yeah again, the translation that tends to be promoted is a literal translation in the same way, but other very good translations like similarly or likewise. I either absent or demoted. In general, as I said before, dictionary stand to promote general. Relatively context, free translations. And I think this is fine for many words, but it's certainly not fine and not realistic for grammatical or discursive units that are inherently context dependent. Now, what about the translation equivalent?

[783.0s - 812.0s]
In the corpus. Well, as Atkins and Randall said, wrote in their book, there are many translation equivalents that is for sure. Some of them are infrequent and highly context bound, and they can be excluded. Others are quite frequent and less context bound and should clearly be included. For example, for Obudu court I showed the two translations of at the end of the day and ultimately, but the corpus also contained in the final analysis in the end, and when all is said and done, which are excellent translations. So clearly the advantage of translation corpus data is that they draw lexicographic's attention, lexicographers attention to some excellent translations that they may not think of spontaneously, although they may be excellent bilingual experts. They're not likely to think of all the translations of these units, which actually are difficult to translate and whose translation depends very much. On the context. And here all studies have shown that even a small 1 million word corpus can help tremendously. Now. So my conclusion is that the use of bilingual corpus data is certainly useful, but I think it's also viable if lexicographers have tools that allow them to identify the range of translation equivalents quickly and effortlessly. Actually, these tools.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Are freely available. You probably be aware of having so context which exists for many languages and which for example here it's the translation of Abuja cough. Provides in these little boxes translation candidates for this particular phrase, as well as as you can see examples. And reversal contact.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Even provides as you can see at the bottom frequent chunks, lexical bundles with this particular expression here or material. The problem is that we have no control over the corpora that are used. I looked up their website and found that they used lots of dialogue, multilingual websites, official documents, but I'm pretty sure that here again, it's not possible to distinguish between original and translated language. In fact.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
As Atkins said in 2002, lexicographers working on bilingual dictionaries need some bilingual form of the word sketch tool to help them use parallel corpus data within the time constraints of commercial dictionary production production. And actually this is happening today because in, for example in Kovar ET al. 2016, you get a description of the enhancement of the sketch engine with features for bilingual and multilingual corpus data. Parallel concordance are automatic highlighting of translation candidates and bilingual work sketches, so I think we can be optimistic for the future with developments like this one which will make. The use of translation corpora much easier.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Let's not turn.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
To pedagogical lexicography and the contribution of learner corpora. As I told you so far, learner corpora had been used to add error nodes. Two monolingual bilingual monolingual learners dictionaries. But there doesn't seem to have been a lot of active work in this area in the last 10 years. And you could wonder why. One of the reasons may well be the general economic gloom in the dictionary making sector. In other words, there's no money for this. This may well be, but I think there's another reason, and that is that it's not really possible to add many more error nodes within the framework of monolingual learners dictionaries, because a large proportion of lexical errors are L1 specific and monolingual learners. Dictionaries are generic. In fact, they're doubly generic. They target all advanced learners, whatever their mother tongue background, and they target all users. For example for production. Productive purposes. Write a letter to a friend and narrative. An academic essay engage in an informal conversation, etc. So what we need?

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Need is customization. Customization in terms of L1 background. Lexical and lexical grammatical errors vary according to the learners. Mother tongue background. There is a very high rate of transfer in Lexus in Lexicon LEXIS, an in phraseology in particular. And the second. Type of customization is in terms of use. Learners use dictionaries for many purposes, and one of them is when they have to write academic texts and an increasing number of learners around the world have to write academic texts in English these days. And these this kind of text requires a particular style with its own set of collocation the lexical bundles. These two types of customization are very difficult to implement in paper dictionaries, but can easily be implemented in web based dictionaries. And so I'd like to illustrate this use of learner corpus data. Bye.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Referring to a tool we have designed and are still designing because it's a never ending process and that is the llueva English for Academic purposes, dictionary or lead for short. It's an integrated web based tool to help non native speakers write academic text in English. And the focus is very much on the phraseology of academic words, because that is what learners struggle with. They usually know the meaning of academic words, but they don't know how to use them in an academic text. A beta version of the program is available. Please use it, but please send me comments and bear in mind that this is still very, very much a beta version, and we know that there's still a lot of work to be done, but we'd love to have your feedback and perhaps before using the tool it might be a good idea to read the article that I wrote with Magali Paco, who is the Co director of that project and which was published in. Lexicographic a. Now indeed we have.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
Two types of customization. Part of the content of the dictionary is customized. According to the learners discipline, and as you can see, the disciplines we cover are mainly human science, human. For the moment we hope to be able to add hard science in the future. And part of the dictionary content is customized according to the learners Mother tongue and for the moment we cater for Chinese learners, Dutch learners, French learner, German learners and Spanish learners of English so.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
When you open the tool, the first thing you asked to do is to select discipline. As you can see and then your suppose.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
To say which? What mother tongue background you have and then the content is partly adapted in view of these preferences. The.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
A dictionary uses the International corpus of Learner English to highlight learners. Attested difficulties with academic words. So we cover problems with meaning problems of frequency, of positioning, of punctuation, and of course, most importantly contextualize use with particular focus on collocations and on lexical. Bundles. Now we've used coupe.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
At all stages in the dictionary building process, it's really really a corpus based and even a corpus driven dictionary. So this gives you the list of corpus data previews for what particular purpose? So we've used the academic and fiction part of the BNC to extract and you academic keyword list. That was the work done by Maggie Pacu in 2010. We use several corpora of native academic writing to identify the typical phraseology of academic words in terms of collocations and lexical bundles. We compiled and used discipline specific corpora of model academic texts from top rated journals to display discipline. Specific examples to the users, so when they click on the collocation, they will get an example from their own discipline, psychology or linguistics, or law, which arguably makes the dictionary more relevant for learners. We use discipline specific corpora and the BNC academic to give direct access to concordances so that learners can look up any word not only academic words, but any word in discipline specific corpora, and we use the international corpus of learner English to identify recurrent learner errors and design error nodes and exercises. Which can be generic or L1 specific. I'd like to return to L.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
On customization and one customization in the dictionary. Actually, is apparent in three different parts of the dictionary. First of all, the search option you can search via the translation of academic words into your mother tongue. So in effect the lead is a bilingual Ized dictionary. I.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
For example, you can key in this Chinese character, which apparently has something to do with similarity or analogy, and you're immediately directed to the words in the dictionary that convey this notion.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
The second type of L1 customization is the warnings and the error nodes for the moment. Unfortunately, focused only on the error. Note the errors produced by French learners, but there is ongoing work on Chinese in collaboration with Fudan University and I should say that I'd be very pleased to collaborate with some of you to produce L1 specific error nodes for other learner population. And.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Finally, we have L1 specific exercises because the lead is also a learning tool, it contains exercises.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
However, having said that, we think that rule is marvelous, and by the way, the students in the way think it's marvelous too, because they've we've evaluated it and and and we got very good evaluation. So we're quite pleased. But we're very much aware that the tool suffers from one major weakness, and the weaknesses that learners will only look up words whose use their unsure about. If a learner does not know that on the country is not always the equivalent of a contrary, they will not look it up. So what's the point of having an error note right? It's very good for teachers, by the way, and and teachers really find the tool extremely useful, because they find the explanation for some of the common errors they find in learner writing. But the learners themself they're not going to look up words that you know they think they use perfectly. So this led us to add a new functionality to the dictionary, which we call the highlighter. Which allows users to cut and paste their text on the interface, which draws their attention to potential errors highlighted in orange and two real errors highlighted in red. And displays explanations in the form of pop ups. And it also hyperlinks all the academic words used in the text to their corresponding dictionary entries, so.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
So this is basically what your text looks like once you have entered it, you have a few words or phrases in red. These are the real errors and the others are potential errors. Cases where students often get it wrong. There's still a lot of work that needs to go into this. It's really early days, but we think it's a really nice development.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Let me now conclude. And go back to my quest.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Chen has lexicography reap the full benefit of learner learner corpus revolution or the corpus revolution. Well, undeniably. Lexicography has reaped a great deal of benefit, but I would say not yet. The full benefit. What I've tried to do, too.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Day is show that, as regards bilingual lexicography, you can benefit a lot by using simple techniques like N gram extraction, which allow you to improve the coverage. For example, a phraseological units. Also that you can benefit by using translation corpora, even small ones, to improve the quality of the translation equivalents. However, it's quite clear that the lack of large, representative, high quality translation corpora is a major hurdle. And so I think there is scope for large scale collaborative corpus, collective collection initiative involving publishers and academic teams under the Aegis of prestigious associations such as your legs, Asian legs, after legs, and the DNA and global legs, and is perhaps optimistic on my part to think that this project could I could get off the ground, but I think if it could, it could make a tremendous difference to the field of bilingual lexicography. And if it ever gets off the ground, then I really want to be involved in it. Let's now turn to.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
The gothical lexicography. I hope to have shown that you can benefit a lot from using learner corpora to tailor the entries to the need of specific L1 populations that the web based format is the ideal formats because it allows a high degree of flexibility and it brings dictionaries closer to use his needs. For example by providing automatic feedback on their text. But here too, we need more learner corpora, especially error tag once.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
We have reasons to be optimistic. I'm always optimistic. I always find reasons to be optimistic, but I think we do because for example, for bilingual lexicography there are new corpora like the international comparable corpus, which is being compiled by range by several researchers, in which will produce fully comparable corpora in nine languages. That would be very, very nice for bilingual lexicography. We have an you spoken corpus, which will enable us to inform the spoken. Are part of the dictionary. New tools like the sketch engine for bilingual lexicography and for pedagogical lexicography. There're knew learner corpus collections in Nova. We are working on the third version of the International Corpus of Learner English, which will hopefully be released at the end of this year or early 2019. It will be much extended, and would be a web based version, and we've also working on and you. Ever editor, which hopefully will also be released in early 2019 I would say.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Now the last thing I'd like to say is that corpora are not the be all and end all of lexicography. I'm clearly in strong opposition to Matthews 2014 definition of corpus linguistics. In the concise Oxford Dictionary of Linguistics, this is what is Rd corpus linguistics of investigation. Based on the analysis of corpora, often by linguists who discount or seek to disparage other sources of evidence. I must say when I read that I was shocked I couldn't believe it. I had to read it twice, right? I thought this can't be. This is 2014 now. You know this may have been true in the very early days of corpus linguistics, but it's no longer true today. When I think most serious corpus linguists know that there are other sources of evidence, because after all, corporate are just collections of language data, undoubtedly dated with high potential value, but data nonetheless, and even pre analyzed by powerful software tools they use in lexicography will always require. Human expertise. So I'd like to finish with a quote, a very wise quote from Rosamund Moon who wrote the following. Lexicographers still have to use intuition and judgment in selecting, interpreting, and setting out the evidence rather than simply relaying it to the user's quasi scientific truth.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Thank you very much. I have a really simple question really. So when we are talking now about dictionaries, a concept of a dictionary is. Would you consider? I mean is the the the meaning of or the concept changed? Or we are talking about some new phenomenon? Or is it still the same old phenomenon when basically an online tool like you present, so the title is still the dictionary, right? But it's basically about. Corpora. Talking to other types of data, can I have? Can I move from this? I like to move it. Yeah, thank you a difficult question, not one that you could ask in just two minutes. I think clearly the way. For the future is to have dictionary integrated into wider learning environments, right? So interconnected with other tools. This is why the lead also has exercises and link to corpora. And so I think one thing is that diction diction we have the future, I think, will be an interconnected dictionary. So from that point of view, it's it's a different object in a way. On the other hand, I think that I'm a strong believer in lexicography, as as a as a major in difficult task and that we will only always need lexicographers, and This is why I said at the end that although you have the corporate, although you have tools that analyze corpora, you will still need human expertise to decide whether the data that you're provided with are relevant and relevant for a particular. A type of user. So in a way from that point of view, lexicography is the same, as far as I'm concerned, you know, I was a lexicographer once in my life, I Co wrote a Dictionary of Fools, friends in English and French, so I know what it means to to write a dictionary. I know what kind of expertise you need an, and I steal that will not really change another change, which I think is very important, is customization. I really think that the fact that now it's electronic will mean that the dictionary will no longer be. A generic dictionary, good for everybody, right? That it will be much more in our case adapted and then with NLP, perhaps adaptive. We're not there yet, but that is clearly the next step where the diction we will adapt to learn this production. We're not there yet. I think you need a lot of data for that. A lot of learner errors before you can actually have a truly adaptive tool. I don't know where answer your questions. Yeah, thank you. We have a question. Thank you very much Siri and for this fascinating presentation speaking Phillip. And I think I was particularly interested in what you call world like and the way you extracted those multi word units or phraseology units. And maybe the practical question would be OK once you've extracted those, what would be your recommendation in order to compile around these so that we get maybe a definition? More examples, translation? So that would would be the the full process once you manage to effectively identify those word likes, and maybe another point which I feel was very important in your presentation, because this is the way we go. Particularly with bilinguals and with ambition to serve dictionary data worldwide, we have to be very close to the users, to the learners and therefore adaptive dictionary. Or write the dictionary that fits the needs of the very user of the web based dictionary is something things are extremely important nowadays, but still from a process standpoint. Once you have extracted days that you are considering as valid word like because you made a point very interesting about the fact that some could be excluded, others would be included. So this is not to say that we will take everything, but would you? What would you recommend in order to compile about this? Yeah, well, it's up to the NLP people to find the best way of filtering the data. But one thing I want to say is that numbers it is not only a question of numbers, for example for translations, sometimes it's fairly. When you look at bad translation corpora, you may find very good translations that are not really represented very frequently in the translation corpus, so you cannot just take the first 10 translations in a bilingual in a translation corpus and say that's it, right? You will have to look at more than that to identify to really fully exploit the benefit of a translation corpus. I'm afraid I I, I don't really have. An answer to your question for phraseology, it seems to me that. You have the engram. Extraction method which as I said I think it under exploited in many cases and then of course you have the sketch engine for four collocations, but apart from that I must admit I don't really know of other methods that can be used to extract phraseology automatically. These are the two methods that I'm really aware of, but I'm sure there are better experts here as we got customization. There's something I didn't say in my talk, but I think I mentioned it in my paper. He said, I think bilingual dictionaries ought to be customized to learners needs as well. I in fact notes for learners find a much more normal. I would say habitat in a bilingual dictionary. Then in a monolingual learners dictionary it's much easier in a way to integrate integrated warning or an error node in a bilingual dictionary. Then, in a monolingual learner's dictionary, which is by essence generic, right. So in the latest article I wrote, with Mario L'affaire, we introduced this idea. Of learners bilingual dictionary right not a bilingual learners dictionary but their learners bilingual dictionary so true bilingual dictionary but with help for particular L1 users. I'm not sure I answered your question at all. There's quite a bit of an echo in this room, so I'm not sure I got everything you you said. Maybe if you want to add something I may have missed part of your questions. Thank you. So thank you very much. You are right on time. Thank you once again for this first plenary lecture. Thank you very much and you are now invited to our first coffee break. Thank you. Thank you very much to all of you.
