Well, actually the majority not so actually what they do is analyze your music listening activities and create a personalized web radio stream based on the user model. So that's actually looking into the audio signal and derive or written based features as well as. So for only 84 out of our nearly 800 metros in the world data was available. Well, this quality measures you all know. So we are almost we found almost no temporal correspondence between the predictions of last of M and the Twitter predictions. The quality of the predictions vary pretty heavily. To very different extent, to communicate music listening activities depending on the location of the world. Well, we also found that more data is available on Twitter than the data offered by last FM, which makes it a very promising source for predicting music artists. Which is of course on the one hand it's bad because it's always hard to define the ground truth, but on the other hand it offers a new way to elaborate hybrid systems that takes into account different data sources. So we currently also look into YouTube. Now you might say, OK, this is well, not really interesting 'cause we have traditional music charts. But the problem with such charts is that they will suffer from some. First of all, such traditional traditional music charts issued by the music industry are not available for all countries of the world, or even if there are available or you want to get access so they won't be made publicly accessible. So why not just look into micro block or activity to derive a measure for? So well to say this is rather preliminary work, but the basic research questions were two were interested in the first extend this we wanted to analyze to which extent users use micro block to communicate music listening activity and we want to analyze of course. Are there any differences between individual countries in this music listening activity on Twitter and well as already mentioned? Well, here is for the data acquisition we first extracted from world class at tier a list of economic relations around the world. Well, then, assuming that now playing hashtag is used very frequently to communicate music listening activities, we use Twitter's API, or more precisely the Geo Aware search facility offered by Twitters API to search at The xx positions around each of the cities.