The Children's Personal Information Treatment which is important then. So how are how is information used for? I know it very well and they also have various and exists connected with the privacy policy and with the cookie policy the Nexus present the purpose of processing and. Of these days data and it has believe it or not, more than 100 types of personal data. So the table in the annex shows why are the data processed, how are they categorized? They have many information, starting with the information data collected, the cookies, the information obtained by third parties, the information sent towards their parties. The sharing of the personal data. How are the privacy policy updated and how to contact them as well? The storage of information, and the updates of the privacy policy are probably the compulsory elements of our perspective. Within a week, approximately 90 students answered the feedback and this is the awareness of the privacy legislation. You see that majority of the students agreed. And they thought that GD PR is intended for all the citizens worldwide, which is somehow true. Very very few people remove them everyday, but approximately 70% removed the cookies from time to time and they think that they can be misused. So the question was, do you read the privacy policies? I never lose my time on reading them. Well. Do you know which of your data are some the data you submit? Question connected with the educational portal and the learning management system. Your name, surname, and Ossian number? The average from one to five. Some private data, such as home address, private email, mobile phones are a real problem for the students. Share this data with the system, but they are supposed to do so. The records about the gender, a nationality almost at all, the records about all the courses students have enrolled to is very again irrelevant for them. The Privacy protection should be taken into consideration seriously, we should deal with should connect. And then we should create the privacy policy. The second thing is that the idea is not only to protect the data of the EU people, but also the data of all the people who communicate among themselves and whose data are kept in some. Well, the idea is to provide clear and simple information to all the people using or giving their own data towards some third parties. Still we most we use predominantly their services, then the transfer of the data to another upon the request, something which is very very important for us since we are building. Crowdsourcing system intended for education, particularly for young people, is that whenever the individuals are under the age of 13. The lawful basis for processing responsibility out countability data protection. Finally, the right of access right to erasure, records of processing activities and finally. However, this in it, colleagues Cookie and privacy policy was taken from the Europe. They made very good privacy and cookie policy. Starting with the data privacy programming approach, although warnings, why are data? And finally, what are the so called privacy Shields?