I'm disappointed Funk from Claire and and I hope to give you kind of short introduction this morning about what clearness and hopefully also how it can contribute to making yeah so sensitive language, data and speech data etc. It's also in the drama that I'm the technical director. McLaren stands for the common language, resources and technology infrastructure. The aim of Claren is to provide easy and sustainable access for the humanities, an for the social Sciences to digital language data and two digital language tools. We have both human and machine readable definition of what a title or creation date or interviewer really means. There are in this specific repository there are multiple, say ways of describing the rules of access to the corpus that goes from completely freely accessible resources over resources that are accessible after you have registered. As you can see, we have about 19 members. In most European countries. First example, the second example comes from the colleagues in Hum Book and they have corpus on interpreters in hospitals. And here you can then go back to the slides. Kind of derive some strategies of making sensitive data available. Not to say that this is the authorative answer to that question, but it could give a bit of a direction how others are dealing with it. But for instance the transcriptions are available like invalid project. To realize, then finally, how could Claire and help you to share and reuse such datasets? Visit with data management plan consent forms and advice to ethical committees, etc. Then of course, Karen can also provide technology, and I've already mentioned the Federated login and the shared metadata so that these small datasets are also discoverable and that they can be found for for person who's interested in them provide off the shelf repository systems, depositing services that also is quite clear technology, like persistent identifiers, so if you have a data set so that you can easily site it, I think finally also maybe something important is providing some visibility, so I already mentioned this knowledge sharing infrastructure where we have this network. There it goes on like this and historical letters, oral history data. Yeah then quick summary on on clearing and data science. So therefore making language tools and language. It also has the whole say historical complex around it, social context, political complex, etc etc. So what I already mentioned, their language can be both social and cultural data as well, and the say the scope of studying language data can also vary for you early, so you can have two very close reading up to lexical analysis or morphological analysis up to really the big data approach where you have lots of data. Clearing is a distributed architecture, so we have these individual centers all over Europe. But mostly Karen is about integrating web based data and web based analysis tools and all kinds of combinations of that. Got some technical pillars so far. Euro or something is really provided, does change then you update the codes, but people citing that code are still sure to be able to reach the data set which has been cited, so it gives a kind of sustainability in terms of citing datasets. We're also working on web service chaining, so basically. Giving a user possibility to combine freely specific components or modules for analysis of language data and basically letting them also change something so using. In that repository you have metadata which is pointing to language data to language tools.