[0.0s - 29.0s]
OK. Good morning. I'm disappointed Funk from Claire and and I hope to give you kind of short introduction this morning about what clearness and hopefully also how it can contribute to making yeah so sensitive language, data and speech data etc. Shareable and yeah usable for for reuse basically. Yeah, I will not bother you too much with details about myself. It's also in the drama that I'm the technical director. So from Karen, Eric basically responsible for making sure that the whole technology technology framework on which client is running. It's is working well.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Good, some short introduction. I believe that many of among you already have heard of Clarence, so I hope I'm not too repetitive. In any case, if there is kind of question or or you want to jump into the discussion, feel free to interrupt me and to to to ask. McLaren stands for the common language, resources and technology infrastructure. It's. Started all I believe in 2008 but since 2012 it is an official Eric European Research Infrastructure Consortium, which basically means that we are legal entity and since 2016 we've been recognized by Esri as landmark, which basically means that were research infrastructure. But we're also, I mean, the construction phase is behind us, but we are there and we were seen as one of the stable existing. Research infrastructures. The aim of Claren is to provide easy and sustainable access for the humanities, an for the social Sciences to digital language data and two digital language tools. Obviously these are terms which are quite broken that's on purpose, so so little language data is all kind of data about language which has been digitized or which is created digitally. From scratch, so it's it's part written text. It's about spoken data or video multimodel I I I track sensors etc etc. I mean in this context I don't need to explain to you how to prove that there can be, but it's also about making the tools available to basically to use to reuse, to, to annotate, to enrich the digitally available data, and to basically make these tools available to researchers. And again, I think yesterday we've seen already some very nice examples of free speech recognition and similar tools that can be based on digital language data. So in this circle I probably don't need to repeat the importance of making the such tools and take available. The idea is also that's especially in case where some kind of authentication is needed, klaren lowers the threshold to get access to the data in the tools, and that's in practice down through a single sign-on environment where basically you can authenticate with your own username and password from University. Even if you're accessing data or tools which are remotely available.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
This is kind of short overview of where klaren is currently active. As you can see, we have about 19 members. There are two observers who are on the way of becoming a member hopefully and we are active. I will not bother you with the reading aloud to hold the whole list that were active. In most European countries. And we currently have about or a little bit more than 40 centers. These are basically the notes in our distributed network that we have. She wanted details. I either about the Members or about the center so you can go to the current website and have a look.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
There. So Claritin datatypes. Well, it's. It's about very broad spectrum that it goes from from large written records, and for instance parliamentary records we've had so few workshops on this data type. It's also about literary texts and the tools that come with that to analyze them. Social media these days, of course, is also very important and very interesting way of gathering. Kind of almost real time. Inputs in terms of any getting the data to do some analysis on I don't know. Specific. Questions about boss, social issue or whatever. There it goes on like this and historical letters, oral history data. I mean, we've had to also very interesting workshop on oral history, people being interviewed and telling about specific historic event or so, or some awesome all things this bin every libraries, institutional archival data. Drug costs from from from either and use news or or television broadcast stations, newspaper archives etc etc. To make a long story story short, there's alot and broad variation in terms of data types which are.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Yeah then quick summary on on clearing and data science. And again I think I'm repeating certain things here, but basically one of the main messages here is that language data is more than just a study study subject for linguists. I mean it has a much broader impact and it has also the kind of cultural layer which is also in there. So therefore making language tools and language. Data yeah, language data available can help to to work on multidisciplinary research agendas. The records from the. From Parliament is more than just a collection of sentences. It also has the whole say historical complex around it, social context, political complex, etc etc. So so this kind of multilayered richness of language data which which is there. And of course because Europe is multilingual, having comperable sources of data from different languages also makes this kind of comparative research possible. And that's very interesting. It's interesting to have. Say that the records of the Parliament in one country. It's far more interesting to have the records of the Parliament in all European countries and to compare the trends about the subjects which are being discussed there. So what I already mentioned, their language can be both social and cultural data as well, and the say the scope of studying language data can also vary for you early, so you can have two very close reading up to lexical analysis or morphological analysis up to really the big data approach where you have lots of data. Put it together in one basket and run some some analysis on that to do kind of distant reading or machine learning or to derive some some kind of knowledge from the empirical data which is.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So how is Karen working as are mentioned already? Clearing is a distributed architecture, so we have these individual centers all over Europe. Technically speaking, those centers are providing access to the data through HTTP. So through the web and same goes for many of the applications which are available as a web application or web service connection. That of course there are also standalone applications. But mostly Karen is about integrating web based data and web based analysis tools and all kinds of combinations of that. The nodes in the network were calling him centers currently about 43 and 18 of them are certified be centers. They have gone through quite extensive assessment procedure where we've checked or our assessment committee has checked whether these are compliant to the protocols into the standards to which we have agreed. Yeah maybe 2 two estudies certified be sent to so they also have gone through kind of self assessment procedure. The data seal of approval. Assessments where they're basically checking all kind of things from from institutional setup over backup policy's over the data management plans. So basically ensuring that those centers are not only technically sound incompatible with protocols and standards to which we have agreed, but they're also, say, policy wise, in line with what we expect from a sustainable Center for for archival.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Got some technical pillars so far. Clara nan. And again I think many of these things are already known to some of you so, so I'll try to shut quick light on some of these. And first of all this the Federated identity, so I think that's also in this context quite relevant. Where if you want to have access to a resource where you need to authenticate that you can use your institutional credentials and the kind of simple single sign on, and where you then can get or request access to data. Think in this context is important to make a difference between authentication and authorization. So Federated identity is mainly about the authentication, making sure and showing two resource provider that you are really the person who you claim to be, you know, but which has been checked by your University or investor saying, OK, this is really person XY set and then the authorization is really something which is responsibility on site of the OR the resource provider and where for instance you can check whether the person that person XY set is really a professor in speech recognition or something like that. So we have to kind of two step process. The second technical pillar is already persistent identifiers, basically through kind of codes and handle your making something available in such a way that it is less suspectable to be trolled. Or two broken links. So you give a kind of intermediate code and if the. Euro or something is really provided, does change then you update the codes, but people citing that code are still sure to be able to reach the data set which has been cited, so it gives a kind of sustainability in terms of citing datasets. Sustainable repositories, well, we already mentioned that, so that's what. Basically, these B centers are doing and making sure that you're not can only store your language resource there, but it's also available in five or ten years. And that you can share the data if it's possible. This is also partially based on the flexible metadata approach. Basically with the idea of having. Standardized way of describing language resource is an possibilities of sharing the schemas for describing specific specific resources. I'll have some more slides on that. There's also something about the content search, so this is mainly something for. In contrast to the metadata where we have a model where we are centrally artist in the metadata and making it searchable, that's not always possible for the data itself. Becausw either data is not openly available, or there might maybe a Copyright issues to get access to the data. So what we have done as a kind of alternative is the possibility of doing kind of figurative search. So you enter as a user a query in a central search system. Then the query is sent through the different centers they're checking. The query with the data that they locally have and they sent back first 20 or 100 hits that they have found for that specific string for which you have been searching and then as a research you can get back all the hits, but you can also jump back to the original search engine so as to inspect the data and more, say natural context of the original search location. We're also working on web service chaining, so basically. Giving a user possibility to combine freely specific components or modules for analysis of language data and basically letting them also change something so using. Tokenizer from place A and then combining it with part of speech analysis or lemmatized from place B&C. So basically allowing researchers to freely combine these things.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Goods that results in a set of concrete services not go into all the details of this, but an important thing. Service here is also the depositing services. So many of these Clarence centers are offering possibility for researchers whenever they have a data sets for which they have no natural place to make it available to store it, to store it with one of the clearance centers you come with basically hard disk with several he bites. Are bytes of video recordings or speech recordings and annotations to that? Well, then you could ask to have it deposited with one of these Clarence centers. We have virtual language Observatory which is search portal for the metadata. I think I have some slides on that also basically allowing you to quickly find out where there is, for instance, information available about speech pathology or so you can browse through the metadata, jump to the original context data metadata. And easy access to protected resources. That's a Federated login, which I already mentioned to the Single sign-on approach. Web services have already gone through that. We have something called virtual collection registry, which is a way of making citation to diverse sources of information. So say you have specific datasets that you have combined yourself, bye. Selecting recording from the Center a Central B center C, then with the virtual collection you can basically point to those original data sources and you can make a kind of digital bookmark for that again also with the persistent identifier in such a way that if you have a paper and you want to refer to those data sources that you don't need to, and especially if you have many sources that you have taken from society, maybe 10 or 20 sources that you only need to cite one persistent identifier and where. Someone interested can then click through and get access to the city original datasets. That's also machine readable, so it also opens up the possibility for automated processing. We have a language resource inventory which is a kind of. Yahoo specific case over depositing service, since it also allows you to register something for which there is no data available, so you have only metadata available about specific datasets. Then you can also register it in that language. Resource inventory already mentioned the Federated content search, so so again I will not go over that again. And finally, I think also an important service that we're offering. It's a consulting service, so if you have questions about very specific or very. Wrote topics and say which kind of video formats to to use for a long time. Archiving or or how to deal with annotations and meta data for specific research purpose. We will also always try to give a good answer to that and not only you know ourselves. The people sitting at the Central Office input ref, but that's through the network which we have of the Clarence centers and knowledge sharing through all the expertise which we basically have. From all the involved centers of the Research Institute, Sinclair and I think that's one really a very important source of of of now how to rely on for very broad questions to very specific things. We've seen that through all the experts in the network in general. Yeah, we managed to basically refer to question to someone who is really some some good insight in the topic of the question.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
OK then. Quick conceptual overview of how acquiring repository looks like. So basically you have one center which is hosting a repository. In that repository you have metadata which is pointing to language data to language tools. Both can be of approach variety there, so they the data types the tool types.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
What we're doing is we're collecting the metadata were centralny harvesting. It's so making a copy of the XML based metadata records, and then we are also indexing that.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So, and that process is quickly shown here. So basically we're indexing what is it to 700,000 medical records that come from Clarence centers and related providers? And then we are basically indexing that making that searchable through so-called virtual language Observatory, where you can search for specific search term. And then if you have found in. Specific language resource. You can also have a look at which tools that are available to process that specific file. For instance, I have some demonstration slides on this at the end of my presentation, but let's see how much time there is left to to go into the details.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
This is an illustration of the content search, so again, in contrast to the metadata, we're basically doing a federative approach here, so basically will relaying the search query to the individual centers and then showing the the overview of the hits that have been having fun.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Yeah, this is maybe a bit too technical and too detailed for today, but we're relying on this component based metadata approach CMD. It's called an in combination with persistent.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Identifiers that allows for. I'm kind of flexible way of describing language resources while still remaining compatible within the framework, and that's a very important thing. So since we so we're not forcing people to use one specific metadata schema, but we are asking them to make a choice between the available schemas which are available for specific language resource types. And if your favorite taste is not available in the standard registry for that, you can also. Build something yourself. This is this component based approach.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
You can select in your components or your profiles from registry, but again I think it's probably too much.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Detail for for today. The registry also has links to concept definitions. That's another important thing, so it's not just random selection of metadata schemas, but for every field in the metadata description. We have both human and machine readable definition of what a title or creation date or interviewer really means. So it's really the idea of having some semantics.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Intent. This is the overall overview of that, so we have the metadata records which are compliant with specific metadata profile and these again linked to these concepts. Definitions are conserved. Clearing concept registries with ECR stands true.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Yep. Good some some examples. Then, since this might sound a bit abstract so so I've chosen randomly few examples of say sensitive language data which is currently available through Clarin. I've not taken the examples which were demonstrated yesterday, like valid or so, which of course also is available through clearing moves chosen few other ones. For instance, here you have from a corpus of basically video recordings from head allows that who used to also work at the Bank Institute and she did video recordings of gesturing by split brain patients, so people were the corpus callosum has been cut through and that all have all kind of interesting implications on how these people deal with with language. There are in this specific repository there are multiple, say ways of describing the rules of access to the corpus that goes from completely freely accessible resources over resources that are accessible after you have registered. Under, there's another level. You have to register & the license agreements or digitally signed so you have to click somewhere. I agree to this license and then we come to the level where these resources are connected to that you have to register, but you also need to do a specific resource request, motivating why you need access to this specific datasets and then in addition to that there is the resources that are archived but which are not accessible. So, but let's have a look at how this looks in. Actually, I think. OK now so I can quickly show you if the links. Are working, let's hope so how this looks like in practice. OK, so here you have a view on the on the specific archive. Having a bit of a description about how this. Yeah, how does this this project got into existence and find some some information about that. There's also kind of hierarchical buildup of debt, but once you're interested basically to get access to the to this specific corpus, you can use the Federated login. That's interesting aspect, so you can say OK, I'm connected to say Utrecht University, or in this case, since there I have a password. I can remember I have an account with the current identity profiles to kind of fall back your solution. So let's have. Look so I can basically just spend. Use my username passwords. OK, so you can see that I'm now logged in with my original identity provider. I'm being recognized with this account and then I can. Basically ask for access. I can request access to this specific corpus. That's also in the slides.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So basically yeah, as you can see here, you can request access to one specific file or to the whole corpus.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
I am then you get some information about that and then you.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And fill in some forms about motivation about why you would need access to this, and then this request is being sent to the repository administrators who can then in turn basically ask the original depositor whether it's OK or not. If this request is on it or not. So that's for a.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
First example, the second example comes from the colleagues in Hum Book and they have corpus on interpreters in hospitals. And so I can also click here. So by the way, all the links that you see here are these persistent identifiers. And what they have a number. So Dave, I think mates sound recordings of patients in hospitals who yeah, had some specific questions and there also wasn't interpreter with these these interaction sessions, so. German Turkish interpreter, German, Portuguese etc etc. Now this corpus is also available through Clarent again again through the same system of single sign on. So you can basically click here. Choose a single sign-on, and then my passwords and. So my my login has been remembered too. As you can see here, I didn't need to log in again, it has just been reusing the single sign-on. And here you can then go back to the slides. So you can.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Then basically request access through this specific resource. So against kind of the similar approach, the data is standard, not openly available, but if you want to request it, you can motivate your request for for access to the data.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
A third example, which is actually openly available, and that's the British team data Bank, and this is a kind of database with example recordings of specific speech pathologies. And again I think I have some example here.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Might have a screenshot you actually take screenshot. So basically you can select and on which. Alaji or interested and then ask to playback. Kind of an example sentence or a specific. Specific file which has been recorded. This is openly available also I think since it's more or less anonymized. Of course. I mean we already had some interesting discussions on that yesterday, so I'm personally not involved in this data by database, so I'm not completely sure how they dealt with with a question about anonymization, but since it are also very short recordings, I mean I think the longest recording is like one sentence or so. I can imagine that. The decider. Well suppose there is consent from the people who have been recorded, but I'm not completely sure how that has been dealt with in this in this case.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So that were kind of three examples from the wild, so to say. I tried to. Kind of derive some strategies of making sensitive data available. Not to say that this is the authorative answer to that question, but it could give a bit of a direction how others are dealing with it. So what we are doing is making the say, recognizable resources or long audio recordings from a person not openly available. But for instance the transcriptions are available like invalid project. If you want to provide access to the, say. Recordings where someone could be recognized, then relying on standard authentication. So as I showed with a single sign on and then have a clear and transparent policy towards authorization. So basically explained that if you are a researcher and you have a well motivated request to get access to the data that this access can probably be granted. Again, having a look at the requests on a case by case basis, I think that is probably the most realistic approach. Yeah, even then, even when this is not available, I think it still felt valuable to archive the data even when there is not such a procedure in place. I mean everything is better than than throwing away the data or destroying the data. I think it's very important to.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
To realize, then finally, how could Claire and help you to share and reuse such datasets? And again, this is a bit of what I think. Or where I tried to to answer some of the things which came up already yesterday, but this is something that I see many years kind of input to the discussion for it for today, so I think pulling now how I think that is something that came out of the discussions yesterday. Very clearly be it's at the level of ethical committees via to the level of constant forms. Also, I think at breakfast this morning we were discussing it. It basically it would be very nice if we SS Clarence community could help to take away bureaucracy and boring work from researchers, freeing up time to do research. Visit with data management plan consent forms and advice to ethical committees, etc. I mean, that's really something where we can easily gain something. I think we could also act as a kind of rich to other research infrastructures and like for instance, that you did an E infrastructure. Basically that's a kind of collaboration platform from large data centers in large computing centers. We have some connections to to you that so in case there are specific requests for specific computing jobs or huge storage of. Of data sets we have kind of connections to you that so we could probably try to broker there and help people along. Then of course, Karen can also provide technology, and I've already mentioned the Federated login and the shared metadata so that these small datasets are also discoverable and that they can be found for for person who's interested in them provide off the shelf repository systems, depositing services that also is quite clear technology, like persistent identifiers, so if you have a data set so that you can easily site it, I think finally also maybe something important is providing some visibility, so I already mentioned this knowledge sharing infrastructure where we have this network. Experts in specific fields. I think it would be really interesting to set up the kind of knowledge centre or knowledge network for say impaired speech for instance. I mean, there's so much expertise around in this room today, it would be fitting not to kind of make that knowledge and made it now available to the broader community. We can so we can provide visibility for that through our website, but also through our monthly newsletters. ETC etc.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Good, I think that brought me to the end of the presentation, a set. It's it's not a final answer to something or so, but at least I hope I can give you a bit of insight in how I think that Karen could help to advance the state of the situation and could provide practical, basically assistance with making the data archive ball reusable. Shareable in general, if you want to know more about Claire and there's a monthly news flash and some specialized mailing lists, but so you can always have looked there. And yeah, if you have any questions, feel free to ask.
