Mr Currently working as Information Commissioner Lou Public of Slovenia. Who is actually authorized to access our medical data in the course of our life? So basically there are two rules. If the patient does not decide who can see the patients data, then the law is giving strictly like numerous clausus facts who can actually see the data in who can then basically not see the data. The medical doctors have an obligation to inform third people about the disease of a patient that they treat when they think that the patient's condition can influence the life of a third person. This is actually for medical doctors quite hard to decide. Clearly we can say yes, it's easy to tell the wife, yeah, but. Are just briefly to say the lies, also mentioning who are the persons who have the right to be present when the patient is treated. They have to inform the Information Commissioner and the representative of patients rights, and then we have to perform an inspection to see what went wrong in the health institution. Thank you for the attention Anne. They were just stored in open closets where all the patients who were walking by they were able to take the documents out and this is like, you know a cartoon explaining that the people are not bored in the waiting room anymore because they are able to read the documentation of other patients. Are only two basic principles of law for personal data processing. And waiting waiting lists are now a necessity. Whether he is moving up and down on this list properly and according to the law. But we have to be care of the personal data. Look into this filing system does not have a right to see the name and a second name of the patient who's on the list. Public health Institute of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of having a so called Central Register of the waiting list. Examination of the data is provided by the law and the medical provider has to give a chance and has to give. Time and a proper date to the patients to see what kind of data the medical institution is holding on on his behalf. Slovenia is a small country. The patients rights to information is part of the Slovenian Constitution as well the rights to oversee your own personal data is part of the human rights of data protection principles. The medical institution has to decide in five days and as I said already, then the person has rights to appeal to the Information Commissioner. I had a case when a private medical office was charging 10 euros per page for a photocopy of a medical documentation and I got really very mad because we are talking about a human right about the right of the person to see the data and I went to the Ministry of Justice and I asked them to enact. A regulation who will regulate the costs of photo copies and now all the institution, no matter the public or private. The ownership of the documentation concept is that the patient is not the owner of the dock of the original documentation. Passing the documentation from one data controller to an.