System to create life and it's mostly microbes that have these diverse possibilities. So this would be CO2. As in photosynthesis or they can use chemical energy. Like sugars. So these these are the ways we divide up the possibilities for carbon and energy sources to be alive. Anne. This is a summary of options for life. Between what we call auto trophs. They rely on the guts of other organisms in order to get through life and. So now we're going to systematically go through these processes that fall under each one of these. Oxygenic photosynthesis is the one we've been talking about. Version of Life on Earth and this is carried out by eukaryotic organisms, plants, trees etc. These guys use solar energy, but they don't evolve. And the first is oxygenic photosynthesis. Anoxygenic and the third is chemosynthesis. Light energy and organic carbon energy at the same time. For every variation that's possible, there's an Organism that's evolved to take advantage of it. And again, this whole lecture could have been done. We could have looked at which redox couples were energetic, energetically possible and then. Grow along that gradient so you'll end up down here with the anaerobic respiration. Then you'll have anaerobic respiration. Photosynthesis is the one that you know well already. So we're going to again give you the abbreviated version here, just so you have a template to map these other ones on to. These guys oxidize hydrogen sulfide. And they use sunlight to do this. So these are called photosynthetic bacteria. So the bottom of the Lake is always anaerobic. And so you have a gradient. Driving the Calvin cycle, reducing CO2 from the air into organic carbon. To the. Conversion of oxygen to H2O. And there are other organisms that can take hydrogen sulfide. What is happening to these compounds? Yes, they're being oxidized. OK, you can have nothing but oxidation reactions or nothing but reduction reactions an have a system sustain itself so it sees microbes. So there is oxygen in the bottom of the ocean. For. That are all there. There's their meat is blood red because they have a special kind of hemoglobin that they use to keep the oxygen tension perfect for these chemosynthetic bacteria. That's our reverse of photosynthesis. So this is a cartoon version of of air aerobic respiration, so we'll just put the glucose. Here an have oxygen. Made an IDH and doing this an we've made. Is the terminal electron acceptor.