This is the tutorial on business applications and markets for semantic technology. Just began this year as a as a collaborative industry education initiative. A four Internet growth stages. So whereas in web one we just wanted to get on the net and you know point and click somewhere in the world web two, it's now putting the eye in the user interface and the we into webs of social participation and we talk about a participatory. We're changing, we're recomposing services where, oh, you wanted to know about what's going on in that building will talk more about these kinds of things later. But it's about connecting intelligence in a ubiquitous web, or both people. Basically, if you don't have time to keep up with all of this and who must do the, we're going to do is try to do at least on a monthly basis, help you keep abreast of the latest developments and semantic technology, in particular to focus in. Connect with companies and with experts who are making this next stage of things happen. And again, semantic technology approaches are coming into the ascendancy now precisely because they give you some tools whereby you can do this kind of focusing. Kind of thought is you know what is, what is value. And it's I would argue that value, of course, is the foundation of all meaning. It's a measure of the worth or desirability of something, and it is the measure of the desirability that could be positive or negative of something, and how well something conforms to its concept, how well it matches up, but value formation in value based reasoning or fundamental to human activities. And there's a branch of philosophy called Axiologix which which studies value and value theory. We have analysis and trade offs. You know the basic information. The second kind of notion I want to talk about is is four kinds of value perspectives. If you look at the center, you know the transition from information to knowledge based approaches in computing and therefore perspectives of upper left, lower left, upper right, lower right. For social computing, it's taking the whole notion that we've come out of web. And this this slide we're pointing out that there are four dimensions of value that matter. New capabilities are the main value driver of semantic technologies, so one of the questions we always ask is what can I do now that I couldn't do before? The third area, and I think, is something that if anything we learn from Web 2.0 is that the user experience is a key thing, and so we measure the user experience advantage from semantic technologies as. You know you. Summary of the semantic Wave 2008 report. The slides will get posted so that you can download them. My background is I'm the Managing director of research consultancy from the United States called Project NX. We specialize in the next wave semantic technology solutions markets, business models. Educate and bring the the market forward. We offer semantic technology for natural language understanding. OK, so I want to talk a little bit about semantic technology and. OK, So what are semantic technologies that we started with the notion of natural language? I mean you might think of the intersection of several different things, but the working definition that that I use is that we're talking about digital technologies that represent meanings, associations, theories know how about the uses of thing, but do it, and in a way that's separate from artifacts such as the documents, the data in the program code.