[0.0s - 29.0s]
I'm Mills Davis. This is the tutorial on business applications and markets for semantic technology. If you're here for the W3C. Tutorial they moved it to the other room and I felt that the business applications you needed something that was totally over the top and so we have this. This morning things are a little slow and getting organized were. Also, we've had some some people that had some problems with flight connections and so on, but we will be pressing on what I did want to do is part of the startup for the session today was to take a little time and since they're not too too many people to get an idea of, you know, let you introduce yourself a little bit about what your interests are and that will help us speakers also to make sure we can tailor what we want to say so. Think about your remarks. I'm going to come back to that in a sense.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
So what I thought to start with what we would do is just tell you a little bit about what the semantic exchanges semantics change. Just began this year as a as a collaborative industry education initiative. And we're basically focusing on all things that have to do with Web 3.0 or the next. You might think the next stage of Internet evolution, an semantic web. What these terms mean will cover a bit in the course of the conference. The initiative itself is sponsored right now by 36 organizations, the logos of whom are shown here. On this chart, we have a number of the company's president, either exhibiting also. At the event, and we have one kind of group of AD which we call the semantic exchange which has. You know these companies, shown here at the bottom of the logo but do not be informed. Expert system accuser. My group project 10X Netbreeze and Semantic System, the. Sure, come on in lots of room, the. And there's some others Antos auto techs method atomics. Also tell us will be here on Friday. Thomson Reuters is giving a presentation, so there's a. There's a good good representation of these companies and the basic motivation is semantics changes. We're at the stage right now. Yeah. Technologies in a lot of different areas that have been kind of percolating and being worked on over the past decade or so are now ready for primetime deployment, and in fact are being deployed. Part of the purpose of this tutorial is to talk about some of those applications and some of the concepts behind.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And in particular, what? And in particular of. Where these apply in in business, one of the activities of these semantic exchange this year is going to be to put on a series of webinars. The positioning statement kind of reason. Basically, if you don't have time to keep up with all of this and who must do the, we're going to do is try to do at least on a monthly basis, help you keep abreast of the latest developments and semantic technology, in particular to focus in. In application areas to be able to present demos. Connect with companies and with experts who are making this next stage of things happen. Learn how to solve problems that apply these technologies in your organizations. Get your question.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
The answer. My talks today are going to come from the semantic wave research semantic wave research includes several several reports. Most of you downloaded the. Summary of the semantic Wave 2008 report. It's quite comprehensive. The summaries is, I think, a good introduction to POV at the conference. Here we're announcing a new study or a new report, special Report, Semantic Technology, product, and service opportunities in Web 2.0 or Web 3.0. The purpose of this is a. It's a manifesto. It's a manifesto of the building blocks of these different technologies that provide new capabilities. That you can then see as the wherewithal from which we can construct the killer apps, the valuable applications and solutions it covers. 16 opportunity categories 70 building blocks. It's very interesting report. I think you'll like it. We have some posters up to show this and.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Talk about it some more, OK? The we're now in the introductory timeframe. We're running a little behind, but that's alright. Here's our schedule for today. We're going to alternate between more classically tutorial segments and case examples. My thought is that I like to lecture. I love the, you know, the theory of why it works, and you know, we've done a lot of research, but to make it practical, I think it's important to to hear from companies that are applying the technologies of how they're applying it, what the benefits are, how their solutions deliver the value. So we have a group of companies they're going to be presenting case studies, the order in which they present will change a little bit since our first one. Their flight was cancelled yesterday and so they're going to be arriving a little late so will move things around the.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
OK, the next kind of step in this is that I want to kind of do some introductions in the slides. The slides will get posted so that you can download them. There's more details, often in slides. Then we talk about and it's always good to have a set to reference. My background is I'm the Managing director of research consultancy from the United States called Project NX. We specialize in the next wave semantic technology solutions markets, business models. Our goal is to help. Educate and bring the the market forward. We have a number of folks we consult with on both the the demand side and supply side of the market. I also chair communities of practice in the federal arena in United States where we're working with wikis and semantic technologies and so on. A number of problems, primarily. Most of it, is in information sharing and knowledge management, but we're also working in. What are we called Netcentric operations? There's a group we're working with called Netcentric Operations Industry Consortium, who's who of the defense and aerospace contractors who want to compete like Hell for who's going to build the next. Whatever you know, system for US and allied services, but at the end of the day, everything past present future has to work together across the global information grid. And that's a semantic problem. Can't just be solved by building yet another one off interface between systems. There are a number of other companies I also work with some startups and prob.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The number of reports. I'd like to do this morning as I warned you about. Is what I'd like to do is take a little bit of time this morning, around room handed Mike, introduce yourself. You know your company, your interests, you know why you know why you're here and what I'd like to do then is also you know any any particular issues that you're interested in, or problems that you're working on. We can help address and get to be our first. Hi, my name is Michael Brody. I'm from Verizon. I evaluate advanced technology and I'm here to see how it's applied. Hello, my name is Jasmine France. I'm from Apple listen employees is the coordinator of the teachers program which is a big 5 year program in Germany for developing new semantic technologies. Hi, my name is mana million from Siemens, Austria. I am still trying to promote semantics technologies inside the company and looking for business cases. My name is cancel Tanaka, Japan. I'm interesting year for imaging technology. Morning my name is shelter Bergen city of being formed be informed as a software company from the Netherlands and we apply semantics within our product sales. Status chance to be stomach collibra. We are now building product out of the prototypes who developed at the University using semantic technology. I am better than Linux also from view based on lap and collibra envy from Belgium. Morning I'm exam from Malaysia. Yeah there are any government agency really interested in what's out there here in semantic terminology. Hello good morning, my name is John Friesen from the Austrian Research Promotion Agency and I'm trying to get an impression whether there is a future for semantic systems research funding, specially in Austria. Good morning, my name is clever Hans, an editor from the German edition of the MIT Magazine Technology Review and would just like to know what's going on in the market. My name is Clarence Plumber and I'm working a tenable for use of semantic technologies in business process Manager. Hello, I'm Simeon about this. I'm from carnival Internet services and I'm working in the Semantic Technology Service center. Good morning, my name is Daniel into I'm a student at the University of Technology in Vienna and I worked in a semantic research project the last year, so that's why I'm here. Good morning, my name is Dorian Redakai work for a private bank in Austria looking little bit for applications for semantic technologies. Maybe within our company, but the primary reason for me being here is that I'm studying at the University of Applied Sciences in Vienna and maybe try to find one or the other idea for my thesis. Good morning, I'm Adrian Martin from Airbus Company that makes the bad planes and Boeing. I'm primarily looking at semantic technologies and I'm trying to assess the kind of business value of them and how we can apply within the company. Person. Good morning, my name is contrary to and coming from Cymetrix and a Spanish company and we're making content management system based on semantic web technologies. Good morning, I'm yes Lipinski, I run a software company called AI hit. What we do is structured unstructured content. Think of it As for example transferring websites into database components. Hi Chris Moran from telling Corporation I'm interested in knowing what kinds of problems people are using semantic technology to solve. Good morning, I'm cattle eating come from the University of Trento. I deal with Semantic Technology, road map and the business vision. Good morning, my name is Harold Melberg. I think from Austria from Telekom, Austria. I'm from the innovation management and I'm interested in business case in applications in the multi technology on. Good morning, my name is Ralph Vera. I'm the CEO would accompany call do now. We are based in New Orleans in a few minutes. We will demo actually what we do. We mostly known about protocol sesame which you may have heard of. We also done a lobby. We're both so in case you want to learn about the products, please stop by. Thank you. Hello, my name is Lewis and I'm the CEO for arena. And I'm supposed to tell you something in a few minutes. Hello, my name is honey sweats and investing in high tech startups from the roster and economic service and then motions supporting and initiating the business Idea Contest which will happen tomorrow in the afternoon. So you're welcome to participate. Austin Economic Service is the Federal Bank of Austria investing in startups and innovative businesses. Good morning, my name is Sasha Alpha MPs this weekend on that I'm interested in. Application architecture food. Good morning, my name is Angela from the University of Technology. We have been researching semantic desktop and personal information management. We have an interesting group. Is anybody not reduced OK the so we have industry? You know Siemens, Honeywell and the like. We have people that are developers. We have people who are from University. So we have a mixed audience which will be good. Let's continue just the quick introductions. Hello, my name is Kevin so I'm Managing director marketing and sales will be informed and be informed. Software company building products in this metric application area. My name is Lucas Cal Nean VP of Strategy and Business development for expert system. We offer semantic technology for natural language understanding. Hello, my name is York voter. I'm member of the Board of Accuser, a Swiss company, and we are offering a semantic middleware and I will introduce that our technology on this conference. Well good now. So we're going to start this morning. There are a lot of dimensions to semantic technology before I go into kind of the the pitch on what all we're covering under semantic technology, I thought we start off with our first case study and the first case case, examples and discussion will come from the perspective of natural language semantic Nets. The high dimensionality of making sense out of content. And are you set up and ready to switch? OK, so from expert systems Lucas Gagliardi will present. See if it comes up properly. Excellent. OK. So my name is Lucas Cal. I'm responsible for the international market for Expert system in my short presentation I will basically. It's kind of that. OK, we'll see. Again, that. OK, I'll probably have to do it like this the. The objective of today's presentation is to give you a short introduction about expert systems technology. We've been around for awhile. As a company we've been shipping semantic technology for. More than 10 years, the characteristic of our semantic platform is, as you can see in this slide is to basically take an input, any kind of unstructured information in any format, and apply a level of another linguistic analysis that goes through all the different steps that we usually do when we read the document. So basically we analyze the document from a morphological POV to understand the structure of. The the words that are part of the text. We do the parsing, but very important element that we add to the linguistic comprehension is the full disambiguation of terms. In order to understand the specific meaning of words based on the context. This brings at the end of the analysis structure representation of the text that can be used for different kind of applications from semantic natural language search to automatic categorization to automatic tagging to natural language question answering tools. Of course, because of the nature of the technology, it is also used in Homeland Security kind of applications. The area of where the year of application of our technology are basically three functional area. The traditional knowledge management were insider knowledge management. I include anything that has to deal with search and automatic categorization of content, customer care, natural language, question answering tools. I don't know if you some of you as a BlackBerry here. BlackBerry just recently launched a natural language question answering tool for self help. Basically, allows any user to ask question in natural language has been already launched in English speaking countries and it's available also all over Europe, even if it's still working currently only in English. The idea is to be able to offer precise answers to very basic natural language questions and the last year of application which executes the area of our business case that I will present today is a corporate intelligence so anything that has to do with. Collecting information to drive decision an especially in the era of competitive intelligence and in the area of security intelligence. The case that I want to bring is actually a case of a company. One of the major oil company in the world, Eni, which is using our technology to drive all their knowledge management and competitive intelligence activity. Basically they collect information from sources that are global sources and local sources, with the idea of intercepting any kind of potential. Innovative technologies that can impact their main line of business. The idea is that if you can understand the idea is that the best way to do intelligence is to actually read anything you can. But of course you don't have the time semantic technology that enables you to have a clear understanding of the meaning of the words and also of the relationship between the words in a sentence is a major in abler of automating. Any kind of competitive intelligence activity so basically and I started by just implementing a small application in the area of technology development, technology monitoring and now is using the technology for a broad range of of intelligence activities. The concept I'm taking this from a presentation that has been done by by ENI in an event. The idea is that you can actually. You can actually implement a system that tries to avoid that the speed of any kind of destructive event. That could be a competitive event. Something happened for with your competitor can be a launch of the Avenue technology. The idea is that if you can monitor the information in real time and with a high level of precision, you actually implement the system that enable to have a speed over the intelligence process, which is actually faster than the speed of the destructive event. And in this way enable you to make decision to address the potential issues. So the having available is semantic technology that can work with huge amount of information and with a high level of precision as enable ENI to expand the use of intelligence beyond the technology Department. Now it is used inside the. Marketing Department to monitor competitors to monitor event that can impact the market and it is used also in the area of corporate security. I closed my short presentation with a list of our customers. As mentioned, we've been around for more than 10 years, so this helps us to build a very solid list of customers in many different industries. I mentioned the BlackBerry Rim but we also are working with Microsoft. We're working with companies in the telecom industries. We're working with the. Telecom Italia, Vodafone and and and companies in sorry is something is going. He's not going with the presentation and we're working also with company in the area of security both at the government level, local country and European level and also with company like Lockheed Martin in the defense sector. She. Question how many people here use Blackberries? Um? Explain about question answering. Yes. So basically if you go to mobile.blackberry.com and you click on the help. You should be able to basically ask any question about how the system works so that you can actually learn also the most complex kind of functionality's. The idea is there today, more than 11% of the people buying a BlackBerry, especially now that they expanded to the consumer, are returning the product because it's too complex and working with BlackBerry. We wanted to implement something that was as easy to use as asking a question to a call center so that the user can actually avoid. Wait long time to get A to actually talk to a person. We've launched the system in July on July 15 in the US. We are right now collecting more than think it's 65,000 question per day and the number is doubling on every every two weeks. So this means that a lot of users are actually starting to use the application. And one important thing is that the system that was supposed to be launched only in English speaking countries has been expanded to. All over Europe, with most of the carrier just because of the success that he had just in the first implementation. Thank you Luca. So you see in this example you know we're talking about basically establishing. The structure, the meaning from various sources of information and then doing certain applications with it. Some of these have to do with knowledge management. Some of these have to do with providing a better search or navigation experience against it. Also, there's a an application now as we see ourselves moving from Search, understood his recovery through keywords to discovery to intelligence and to question answering. So there are now at the stage where they're doing particular kinds of directed like help questions, but also. The semantic technologies are being used for things like question answering a factoids on a cell phone, being able to get an answer to a question rather than a list of documents to look at. So in the realm of the large, larger picture of making sense out of unstructured information or providing more directed, relevant, you know, answer to or response to questions of search. Our first kind of topic in the business value of semantic technology is that. Natural language is going mainstream. At this point I want to switch back.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
You'll find out if these toggles work. It's great. OK, so I want to talk a little bit about semantic technology and. As it is the next topic and at this point Jeremy, you're going to present for Duna. You might want to plug in so you're ready to go.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
OK, So what are semantic technologies that we started with the notion of natural language? I mean you might think of the intersection of several different things, but the working definition that that I use is that we're talking about digital technologies that represent meanings, associations, theories know how about the uses of thing, but do it, and in a way that's separate from artifacts such as the documents, the data in the program code. This immediately leads to some interesting mashup possibilities. The idea of being able to search topics across documents across sources or silos of information if we can expose the information about them, the knowledge amount it also leads to ideas of ways to develop systems developing systems by first modeling the knowledge 1st and then letting it execute other. It's not going directly to a procedural or a. Jecht oriented approach, where the objects are opaque, little black boxes, but rather think of them as transparent boxes. I think of him as as knowledge which can be accessed not just by 1 program. I either programmers mind who invented it, but rather than knowledge, is represented in a shared form such that multiple programs can interact with it. Why would you be interested in that? Well, then you can actually get to some new concepts of operation systems that. By virtue of the interaction of people with the systems or by virtue of the kinds of machine learning where. The performance of a system can become better with use and with scale.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And so we now talk about architectures of learning. The bottom half of this graph is a chart that I used to kind of show some of the areas or aspects from which semantic technologies are being being funded, particularly RND realms in the US, in Europe, Asia and so on, and it breaks it apart into four kind of use of on the left. Its course from the standpoint of the network, the infrastructure. Of from the right it's the issue of services that become semantic from the bottom. It's content which becomes semantically enabled as we begin to build a knowledge layer over that content and from the top it has to do with decisioning and executable knowledge, and it's things like intelligent agents. So all of these areas or areas that are being worked on our job today is to talk about them in the more practical sense. But the key key point to be made here. Is this transition that we're going through now whether you talk about semantic web as the standard or whatever is a very fundamental one, it's a fundamental one that I mean, it's again, it's not new. We've always been encoding our thoughts and ideas as humans, whether we wrote him down or drew paying, you know pictures on a wall of a cave or do a dance. Or are, you know, make a schema? There are lots of different ways, lots of different forms of language that we use to express our ideas. What we're now doing is doing this in a way that we can. Represent these A and computers and be in ways that we can share with other people that it isn't just in the mind of the of the of the author, but there are ways that the computers can Co evolve to work with us. So the shift from information to knowledge centric patterns of community of computing.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
In our research, the focus has been on what I call semantic wave and the semantic wave is conceived as a title wave. A four Internet growth stages. This diagram of the first version of I saw it was done by Nova Spivak. Several years ago. It organizes a way of viewing the evolution of the Internet as a quad graph of looking from left to right is increasing. Social connectedness, from low connectivity to high to evolving people, and so on. So the translator with the major transition from web one where we're just connecting information through sites, little silo sites, the social web is what happens in Web 2, the. Connecting of people becomes a vehicles of communication. So whereas in web one we just wanted to get on the net and you know point and click somewhere in the world web two, it's now putting the eye in the user interface and the we into webs of social participation and we talk about a participatory. Then the next stage is Web 3 and then the axis. Here we're starting to go vertically vertically as the axis of increasing knowledge, intensivity and connectedness of knowledge. So we talk about being able to do the great, you know semantic graph or or exposing information and databases through through what through being able to share the definitions of what the information means, and do that in a way that computers can interpret as well as people we're now talking about. Things like semantic web, and this is the beginning. Beyond that, once we can kind of connect information and information about processes and so on, we can then also connect it to other knowledge about other kinds of things and began to put things together. One example of that is it is the trend now twords declarative or model driven executable knowledge systems that combine models about process models about information models about interface and interaction with these and create things where the designer of the developer is essentially specifying and. Underlying engines are then taking these an of establishing the systems for this. This becomes very useful, particularly when we have to connect up a lot of different systems, some of mold, some of them knew where we want to continue to maintain the value in the existing of investments we've made while we decide when and where we want to rip and strip. We want to be able to do that now. Looking ahead, we're going to have a 4.0 where. Not only are things going to be smart, but we're going to be taught, you know, things will be part of the dialogue as well. Their terms that are used in the industry now, which is like spine and blobject which refer to the life history of objects which refer to the participation of things in the social discourse across the Internet and the ubiquitous web, is the term that we talk about that. So we move from Web 3A, semantic web, connecting the knowledge. And exposing the information, orchestrating new kinds of process to progressively smarter where we're connecting the intelligence about things. What will drive this web for stage, of course, is mobility. Mobility if in 2017 we have. 7 billion devices and five billion people online were moving towards personalized, customized services. For no other reason. Then we're going to have reality browsing. Going on. That means that the device is picking up. Its sensors are picking up. We're changing, we're recomposing services where, oh, you wanted to know about what's going on in that building will talk more about these kinds of things later. But it's about connecting intelligence in a ubiquitous web, or both people. And things reason and communicate together and in such a world we don't have central planning in the in the you know the ways that we can have the structures, the rigidities of some of the.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Coaches we've taken OK. My next topic is going to be value, but right now what I want to do is switch it over and we're going to go. Back to. Of two Adhuna who will present to us about.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Views of the semantic web and in their presentation will talk more about the interconnection of of structured information, unstructured information of processes using semantic web and also being able to visualize these knowledge models and so on. Let me switch over and see.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Thanks. Works faster that time. From my point of view, it seems to work. From your point of view, it works too. I think my name is Sharon Weston. I work for a company called to dinner. Anne, I'm going to try to share some experiences that we have applying semantic web technology in the field with you.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
First of all, a short introduction on Arduino. Well, you should not remember all these bullets. It comes down to two bullets. Actually. What we do first of all, we have software that can be used for information integration. And lots of projects that we do are based on the topic of information integration and 2nd we have software that enables people to explore all these combined information. Advanced way for exploration. Advanced ways to explore this semantic data. We've been around for some time in the field. We started the company in 97. And well, you can see the bullets here.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Some of our customers.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And this is the topic that we have. Where all our activities are centered around enterprise information management, we have a product platform called Auto Focus. It comes in two forms, desktop version and a more server based version and I'm going to show I'm going to give a demo later on in this short presentation.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
You might, you might notice of another product, we have, sesame, Sesame. Let me briefly explain what Sesame is about. It's a platform of framework for storing semantic data and it has some really big advantages because it doesn't. It can be used on top of existing storage environments. So what you can do you have your existing data within your organization. And you can make this existing data semantic data. That does not mean that the data becomes smarter in some way, or but the only big advantage that you have as an organization is that you are able to share this semantic data with other data. And there is the issue. The combination of connection to information integration, which is a central part of our activities and sesame is a good framework for this information integration. System is an open source framework, so everybody is invited to use it. An people are also invited to contribute to it. It's an open source project since 2000.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
OK, well these are the commercials for our company. Now I'm going to show you the real important things. So what do we do for customers? One of our customers mentioned here you're a consultant McDonald. This is a. Consulting organization that has a lot of that's doing the contracting for technical consultants in 3rd world countries, so all kinds of infrastructural projects in 3rd world countries are. Contracted by this company and their big issues that they have a lot of consultants. They have material connected to this consultants like diplomas, Sifis resumes and they are not able to do proper search within this collection of information. So they have a database with consultant names. This is a very simple. Information Integration Project was done within a few weeks but but because of its simplicity I share it with you because I think there are lots of simple problems there. Also that need to be solved. Then they have this file system with all kinds of consultant related information and what I want is a integrated exploration environment that enables them to search both. Repository's of information. In a unified way that can be solved very easily, one of the things that we learned when we do these projects is that first of all, the customer comes to you and says, OK, I want to solve this problem by having this one interface that I can use to search all kinds of repositories that are combined in this in this interface. But that's that's usually the first question. Afterwards comes the second question, then they say, well, I'm not satisfied. More with this interface that you built, I want another one for a different group within my organization, so that's the same thing is going on here in this customer. They say well now we have this interface, but now we have a different group within our organization that wants a different view on the same information. So information integration is actually something where you try to combine the things on the lower end of your info on your architecture. You try to combine all kinds of repositories there, but on the in the second. Part is you try to make multiple interfaces on top of this infrastructure for multiple groups within your organization. So the technology that you use to do these kinds of projects should have flexibility in these two dimensions.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
OK, let's go to another one, which is totally different but is also centered around a theme of information integration. Not to Dallas. It's a Dutch museum. It stores Natural History data. And it's the biggest Natural History Museum in the Netherlands. I don't know whether that's a big advantage for them, but it's OK. They are the biggest, so they have a leading role in this field. What they try to do is they try to give people access to their data in like a museum has to do because that's the way that's the reason why they get money. But the the new thing that they're trying to do is it trying to make a combination of all kinds of interesting museum collections not owned by them, and make one virtual collection of Natural History museum data so. There are multiple museum collections not owned by Naturales. What we do for them is that we. Make all this information all these collections. We make semantic data out of them. What we do is we make special connectors to their existing collection registration systems and we connect sesame to it and then we have sparkle endpoints and then we can do whatever we want. So one of the things that we can do, we can build an exploration environment that is able to search in network. And that's what we're going to do in the next couple of months for them. OK. How my all the time? Fabulous OK. So I will give you a quick demo.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
OK, this is one of our products called Autofocus. Bad thing is that I can't give you a demo where I search all kinds of repositories. So now we're looking at data that's on my laptop. Good thing is that I can show you one of our advanced ways of interacting with semantic data and this is based around the idea that you should. Of course you should give your users search results list, but you should better you. You need to be better than that. You should tell people what's in these search results list actually because she can't organize them in such a way that always the best fit is. On top of that list. So what we do with this interface? We can use it as a kind of desktop search tool, which is OK. That's just the standard version for customers. We adopt this standard version and make it fit their needs. So we can search on arbitrary term. Let me see what I did before auto OK. I did this artist only gives me one result I will. Skipped us, you shouldn't you see, Ashton should have done my preparation better. OK, I'm looking for Gardner probably could because I want to know whether Garner refers to a do now but. OK, let me focus on the interface. The search results list is actually a little bit hidden. When I click this collection I see search results here on the bottom end of my screen. It can be organized. This list, but it's I think it's better to look at a picture. This picture is a cluster map and it shows all the results that are related to the question that I entered in this interface and the question that I entered was Garner and it's listed here on the right hand side on top. Now I can add another question to this interface. So you see, here is one of the things that is different that will become different. A lot of interfaces are still centered around the idea that you should have your question. Uh, right at 1st and then you will present your question to the interface and you will get an answer. So it's a two way process. You have the question and get it back and then you're finished. We see that a lot of exploration interface that we present to customers don't match with this template of putting your question there and getting back, but it's constant. Firing of questions. Retrieving results back. Refining, retracting. Relaxing on some of the questions so searching is not a one off process, but it's it's A kind of continuing process and we can do it in two ways. We can do it in a kind of exploration we're going to can do a kind of funneling or refinement. I will add another question to this interface and stop talking. Suppose I'm interested in the presentations. Now this is not a fulltext search question, but it's more a kind of type question, so I went to the facet type. And I added question to it and give me all the presentations. Now the pictures changed and let me briefly explain to what you see. This picture, perhaps it helps for you when you see when I tell you that these are Venn diagrams, so here is 1 collection. This is what's my original collection of Gardner related documents. Here is another collection. Called presentations and in the middle you see an overlap and this overlap matches with the two constraints that I have. Fire to my that I have present that I ended in this application. Gardner and presentations. So 30 documents match with these two constraints. So what are DDS to outer clusters here? 137 documents contain this strain the word Gardner, but I can tell from this interface that are definitely not presentations. And here we have 186 documents. There are presentations, but don't contain the word Gardner. OK, we will go on and see I will add another. Question two, I'm looking at well. I'm looking at the most significant terms in this cluster. An actually here I have one, and I say, OK, language. And. I'm looking for documents that have the word language in it and now the picture again changes. I have three questions and in the middle. I have a cluster of matches all three constraints. So while doing so, why drawing so complicated pictures? You can also show the middle cluster and leave the other things out. Well, definitely people who have a. Common or usual interest in your information would like to have that, but there are also other people that we are have a more in depth need of information and they like to explore and like to see how things are connected to each other and they typically value these these pictures. They like it so think of forensic research people from. How are they called from the police Department's people who working on R&D environments? Pharmaceutical industry is very interested in these kinds of visualization. OK Mills, how am I doing all the time? You're done? OK so thank you. Please come to our booth and I can give you a more in depth demo of this so so there's a couple couple takeaways from this discussion, but I want to emphasize one is was the first part of the talk when we're talking about setting up. I have multiple sources of information I need to put these things together and then tomorrow I'll come back on day two and I want to add something else to it. Well, anybody who's been through this process with databases knows that you know when you're going down the extract, transform, transform, and load every time you change the structure or add information sources that you want to cover, you go back and you have to rebuild the data and so on. So it becomes a. On the one hand, it's it's. It's a more expensive route. When things change if things aren't changing, or you can lock in on it, then you can go that way. So so there's a lifecycle implication, particularly if it's the kind of world where you want to start. Small work incrementally add additional things suddenly. The semantic Web technology provides you a way of exposing that structural information ways it can be combined with others, and also then adding some more, because essentially what you're doing is modifying the model in the middle, but not having to go in and. Upset the sources or the people who systems who those sources come from, which gives you the second big advantage which is psychological, cultural, or political. Whichever way it works out in your in your organization. On the other side, it's looking at it on the second half of the presentation. Another advantage of once you begin to work with the semantics in the models, and this also applies to. Lucho is presenting as you get this opportunity to be able to focus in an refine. And that can be refining across sources. It can be refining and again seeing being able to add progressively more detail to be able to zero in, and so on. And anybody who's researched a problem and suddenly you get back. You know, this large number of of a list of things that you have to then try to sort out. You know you die for ways to, you know, to make it more refined. So on the one hand, there's the casual kind of search thing, but a lot of things in business, a lot of things in somebody with professional. It is, you know, you don't want to miss something important and you need to get to the important stuff you know fast in a reasonable cost. And again, semantic technology approaches are coming into the ascendancy now precisely because they give you some tools whereby you can do this kind of focusing. And I like this visualization. It's not exactly the way I draw a Venn diagram, but it's like you know it's it's cool, but it does definitely give you, you know, let you see what you're trying to do, which is to zero in on this guy. Almost like tensor lasers pointing in bringing you that central focus to your information. I think in the natural language area, expert system similarly has some tools that you can use in working with natural language to begin to work in on word senses and refine it so on. So again, thank you very much. At this point.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Forget to switch back. OK, so at this point we're going to. I'm going to talk about probably one of the core topics, namely business value. And talk a little bit about you know how we view it and you know and and what are some of the dimensions of this to look at, particularly when you're thinking about solutions or the applicability of different approaches.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
You're in your world first. Kind of thought is you know what is, what is value. And it's I would argue that value, of course, is the foundation of all meaning. It's a measure of the worth or desirability of something, and it is the measure of the desirability that could be positive or negative of something, and how well something conforms to its concept, how well it matches up, but value formation in value based reasoning or fundamental to human activities. And there's a branch of philosophy called Axiologix which which studies value and value theory. Most areas of human reasoning require application of multiple theories. We and value we have conflicts, we have uncertainties, we have competing values. We have analysis and trade offs. So the while we're saying the low hanging fruit that all of us are going out with semantic web and with natural language technology is to be able to put our arms around and connect. You know the basic information. You know there's also a path you know, like going West, where we've got a lot of room to begin to reason over and bring the power of our computing solutions to reasoning and working with questions. Then these aren't just questions of truth or falsity. These are questions of guilt or innocence, or who lives? Who dies? Things where you know we're not necessarily dealing with right answers, wrong answers. We're dealing with, you know, the conformance, to value to how things fit. And so these will lead us in the direction of a much richer kinds of applications as time go by. But you know, it's pointless to discuss them if we can't connect the dots if we can't expose the information. If we can't, you know, get the get the knowledge this locked in the silos out of the silo.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
The second kind of notion I want to talk about is is four kinds of value perspectives. This is a diagram. If you look at the center, you know the transition from information to knowledge based approaches in computing and therefore perspectives of upper left, lower left, upper right, lower right. The upper left is the realm of I or the first person or the user experience or value is ultimately experienced. You know, in the eye of the beholder, in the lower right, it's the. It's the realm of shared values of semantic. For social computing, it's taking the whole notion that we've come out of web. Two of groups of people connected together around whatever purposes they have, and beginning to add richer knowledge layers behind that. Enabling people to figure out events and who and and an connections between. Things and to make finding, connecting, referring, make the social experience richer, upper upper right. The transition is stored smarter objects, smarter things, smarter software, lower right is the direction towards infrastructure and ecosystems that are able to be assembled, dynamically interconnected. The transition that we we talked about from Web 123 and four. Is also a transition of of the underlying infrastructure of this.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Girl the. Overall values, I'm going to come back to that diagram. I just showed you this one and I'm going to use this as a basis of mapping technology capabilities and talking about applications 'cause the developments that are going on that are more one or other of those quadrants are important to consider when you start to figure out those of you want to find the killer app or those who are trying to see the future of valuable solutions in your business. It's I think a useful way of thinking about this. And this this slide we're pointing out that there are four dimensions of value that matter. Capability, of course refers to new solution patterns or things that we could do that we couldn't do before just wasn't economical to try. New capabilities are the main value driver of semantic technologies, so one of the questions we always ask is what can I do now that I couldn't do before? And that's true of business, but it's not the only dimension that matters performance. Is the operational side of the picture it refers to improvements. Forget we can do the same thing, but we can do it more efficiently. Or we can do it better. And from the standpoint of return on assets or we can do it in a way that gives us some sort of strategic advantage that we didn't have before. But it's an operational horizon and it's also one that we need to think. Think in terms of an always ask. So when we look at some of these solutions to say, well, who cares why? How is it will find that on one of these axes or one of these dimensions of value, we're going to get some some payback. We're going to get some advantage that we don't have for some other kind of solution, and I'll comment on that as we go along. The third area, and I think, is something that if anything we learn from Web 2.0 is that the user experience is a key thing, and so we measure the user experience advantage from semantic technologies as. As increases in pleasure, relevance, helpfulness, usefulness as these are experienced by the user. When people go off, invent angle brackets and standards, you know they have not addressed the issue of user experience at all, and we are now at the stage where these technologies are being brought forth with innovations. Such the drone was talking about, where new approaches to the user experience to the user interface are also being brought an. This will be a very important area when you look at it. I mean the end of the day. If it's in, you know, investor who is investing or business or a person wants to use something, they're not buying the ingredients, they're buying the finished good. You go to a restaurant, not to you know, see Flower. You know you. You want. You know, the strudel or whatever, and so the the packaging of these things together into something. I was the semantic technologies is this repertoire. You can think of it as an organ with a lot more stops on it. That we can use to deliver a better and more valuable experience. You know, but we're going to judge it by the experience, so it's it's not the notes on the on. The on the on, the on the scale that are the key thing. It's ultimately the way you put them together and the fourth dimension is what I would call the lifecycle economics. When I talk about performance, I talk about things more from an operations. How's it affecting? You know the operations of the company. When I think about lifecycle economics, I'm thinking about a return on investment D. Risking and so on. Now what is it? And do you have different horizons? You have the development horizon you have, you know what it cost you to operate it, and whether or not you can change it. One of the examples we talked about, semantic web, was the ability to develop at less risk to get to get a product up sooner, faster to be able to incrementally do it. Also, the notion of that Luca brought up of user help and experience that made you know the overall operation of system less intensive. The ability to have one kind of search against lots of different databases. So you don't have the learning curves and whatever else goes along with you know the upset of having to, you know, be in that kind of dysfunctional world of too many, too many partial fragmented solutions.
