Italian professor nekuda As all of you know, as all of us know, identifying the K most influential individuals is a well studied problem in our field of study. So we actually define a progress fraction for each group. The second, the second thing, the second. The issues we propose the following diffusion model. And not it's active. It means that some of the members of Group 2 adopt our product after, but after this the new nose inside Group 2. Try to activate their groupmates and so the progress fraction of group to again increases to higher value and not Group 2 has a new progress fraction and it tries to activate its neighboring groups. The goal is to find the morale most influential groups, but the problem is again in this model NP hard. And he is the number of iterations to Tara to converge. An individual advertising, we spend the same advertising budget on all of the algorithms we identify. The initial adopters and then we run the individual diffusion model for all of the algorithms to measure the final influence. FGD model as a future work we are interested in a generalized model where groups are allowed to receive different budgets or the cost of advertising to each group. The second thing is that these groups are actually natural targets for advertising it. We propose first affine grand diffusion model and the idea in this model is that we want to determine how advertising to a group translates to individual adopters. And so we can actually identify the finally influenced people. In the left side, for each group, we add a blue node in the right side and we connect each group node to all of its members and the weight of the edges depends on several things like the advertising budget, the size of the group, the escalation factor that will be defined in the next slide, and among others. And it determines how many more initial adopters we can get by group advertising group targeting rather than individual targeting. Here's an example. Unfortunately, the problem is NP hard under the FGD model. Is that the diffusion in this FGD process is monotone submodular, so we can have a greedy algorithm with a fixed approximation bound of 1 -- 1 over in, and the runtime of this algorithm is L, the number of groups I want to target, times M, the number of all of the groups times in the number of ties between the individuals that those are the edges, the number of edges between the individuals in the social graph times R&R is. FTD model works very well for graphs that have a few 1000 notes, but for larger graphs with hundreds of 1000 nodes is not practical, so we propose a coarse grain diffusion model that's an aggregating model for the larger social graphs, and the idea here is to incorporate the information about individuals without running explicitly on the level of individuals.