Now in our case we are interested in computing expectations of log sums, so expectations of the log of mixtures, right? OK. And then this has the advantage that we can then compute the expectation with each of those lock terms separately, and we can optimize the approximation in each case individually. When you compute the approximation of those expectations is shown here in the two rightmost panels. However, in the right hand side of the equation then this is our our nonlinear function and this is the weighting distribution. OK, so basically to show you some results of what our approach does when we apply it to simple 1 dimensional problems, we chose a bunch of observation functions and a bunch of observation sequences, and then we approximate the true posterior distribution using mixtures of Gaussians that were fitted either with the variational mixture filtering approach or with the initially described Bank of independent filters. Bank of independent filters say with four components and the true posterior and the variation which are filtered and the true posterior. And this KL divergences difference is plotted here as a function of the number of observations of taint and each curve basically corresponds to an average over many different scenarios considered. And we implemented this active learning scenario with our variational Mr Filtering approach and with a end with this path with the Bank of or with the. And what we find is where's the variational filter tends to converge towards the target as the number of observations increases. So basically we gave both methods a fixed time budget during which they could do inference in active learning. So let me quickly conclude basically what we have proposed is a new approach to nonlinear filtering that is basically a more efficient way of fitting a Gaussian mixture representation to the posterior. We have implemented efficient rating based approach for optimizing the code, likely by the vergence at each point in time. They cannot be rather computationally expensive if we move to higher dimensions in particular, and there are certain applications, where would we like to have a very compact parametric representation of the posterior? As an alternative, several authors in the literature have proposed to use a mixture of Gaussians approximately represent the posterior.