[0.0s - 29.0s]
I'm Erica, I'm with Chris and falling. We're all from the Institute of High Performance Computing. I'm doing a lot of complex systems research. The main focus of my work is really agent based modeling. I did a bit of complex networks previously right now by focuses on transport research together with Chris and in collaboration with various agencies here in Singapore. But yeah, for now I'm going to talk about community structures.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
This is going to be the outline. OK, we will just review. It's just a slide what the network structure parameters are that you've probably discussed in the past few days and let's will talk a bit about the function of these structures, and then we'll jump right into communities. I know that you're all in a hurry to talk about your project, so I'll try to make this as brief and as interesting as possible. And Community detection algorithms. We're just going to distinguish between two. I'm sure you know how to call it on Python, but I'm not sure if everyone knows what's really happening behind import community. And finally some applications, and then we'll dive into the notebook. Have you downloaded it yet? Yes, so this is the link. Alright.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Alright, so are you familiar with these measures here? Based on Mike Stock and falling, you realize that it depends really on the structure of your network. The dynamics are the function of the system could be different, right? For example, if you have an Sir model and then if you have an Erdos Renyi graph or versus barabasi Albert graph, you're going to get a different set of results. Same thing if you do targeted attacks or random attacks on an Erdos Renyi versus a barabash Albert. You're going to get a different scenario. So, just to recap, you know what is pathlength again? Can someone? Define what path like this. Is the shortest path get from one point to another? What's the diameter? Yeah, I just quizzing you so that when you meet friends like hey, I went to this winter school. I know this stuff. Clustering coefficient. Layman term. If your friend asks you what's clustering coefficient. It quantifies how your friends are friends with each other. Well, essentially you can use that definition. The degree distribution. You're very familiar with this one, supposedly. Can I ask someone to define it? Why are you all looking down? It's it's basic. Can you tell me what degree distribution means? Killed her. How many connections the node has? Yes, it's related to that. Definitely it's you're taking the histogram of the degrees of all the nodes in your network, and if you have a random network, what is your expected degree distribution? Plus on. Do you agree? Why you should buy a dealer that you know you know, OK? If you have a barbasch Albert model, what's your degree distribution? Power late OK. At least now I feel like you're up. Finally, centrality measures. So did you? Did you talk about edge between us? Yeah OK alright good alright so these are important measures and then we're going to add one more in this list, which is the communities these are.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Just clusters or groups of nodes in your system, wherein these nodes have a higher likelihood of connecting to each other within the same community than comparing outside the community. They are very important because they suggest. So.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
They share common properties, so if the nodes belong to the same community, they usually share common properties. For example, the World Wide Web. OK, when you find communities, these are. When when sites belong to one community, usually they relate to one topic, right? And when you talk about Friendship Network the same thing. If you talk about social network, this could be people group in terms of occupation in terms of age or geographic location etc. Disease. This is relationships, collaboration, networks. They all form communities. That's why it's very important.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Are you familiar with this graph? Yeah no, oh interesting. So this is a graph of political blogs. Alright in the US was taken back in 2004 just by looking at the network structure and doing some Community detection algorithm. They would they were able to classify Democrats and the Conservatives from this. So this is the 2004 election. OK and then this one.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Is a research that done at the HPC. This is a network of all the variables related to aging. OK, and then what they tried to do here was they tried to cluster the different variables using some Community detection algorithm as well. I showed you this figures.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
But if you're given with this plot, how do you find the communities? Is there a project here that are final project for this Windows school that uses communities in their study? No, you're not going to use communities. No. Might have OK. So how do you? How do you find communities? He did this right. OK, end of the talk. Thank you everyone. I'm just getting so this actually reminds you of this.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Beam like this guy is working on deep learning what society thinks I do what my friends think I do. What other computer scientists think I do what I think I do, but what you actually do is just import some package. We don't want that we want that at the end of this winter school, you really know how Community detection is being done. Right, they agree.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
OK.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So this is the karate club. Zachary's karate club. Are you familiar with this plot? It's always use this because this club eventually split into two. OK, so one of the groups went, went with the instructor which is Mr High. The other went with the president, which is Johnny, but prior to this they tried to convince everyone in the in the team to to join the other group. OK, so Zachary was the guy who actually followed these Members. OK, untracked, who are hanging out with each other outside of the club. So in a sense you can see information flow like hey, you should you know Mr High sent me the good guy so you just join Johnny instead? Alright, and because of just by looking at these relationships, he Zachary was able to predict how the community would be split or how the network would be split except for person eight, he failed to actually predict that one, but more or less you got it. So if I were to ask you. Assuming that you don't have a computer, how are you going to split this? So there will be two ways.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Write a blog, rative versus divisive agglomerative is is really difficult to teach you this agglomerative. We start with individual nodes and then you try to group them together based on certain characteristics. The more similar they are then you come to them together and then the clouds will be further clumped together etc etc. As you go up you could have three classes for classes or six classes based on the cut. So that's agglomerative. You can also do a divisive kind of method where you start with a full network and you start to cut edges. OK, so we're going to discuss this too, but there's also this important measure when you talk about Community detection. It's act.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Module Arity, are you familiar with this term who's familiar with modularity? OK can you can you talk a bit about? Lemon. Very good, yes. You see the got me on this one. I'm saying guys alright now. Essentially modularity just gives you the quality of the partitions that you do. OK, it's the quality, the higher the modularity of the partition. Sorry, I'm still laughing inside. The better the quality of partition is you're counting the edges within the same network versus the edges outside of the network. OK, and this is the formula. This is where the math comes in. OK, we can do a bit of algebra. Be prepared with your pen and paper. Ansi.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Here is the number of communities, so if you have two communities, it's 23 committees 3. Else is the total number of links in Community C. Follow Casey total number of degrees in Community C and Capital L will be the total number of links in your graph. Quiz.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Are you ready? The formula is still here, don't worry. For the first one, calculate this one in the inside the square brackets. How are you going to do it? OK, what is else for this first community? Huh? Yeah, very good six and then L is just the 20 and then the number of degrees of all the nodes is actually 14 OK and then you do this for this next community for the next community you have this value and then for the third community you have this so modularity is really very simple and then you just add them all up. Alright so when people ask you what's happening, what's going on behind import community you know what to tell them. OK so this. Module Arity of this kind of grouping partitioning is 0.5. What if we misclassified one of the notes, say these two? We assign them to be blue.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Alright, so of course we know by intuition that this is less optimal than the previous one. Do you agree? OK, so how do you quantitatively convince someone that is this is less optimal, so you calculate again the modularity? Alright, and here you get 0.35. So you know that this is less optimal than the previous one, and if everybody is assigned in one community.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
What is your end? Ha ha ha. O Come on, you're just guessing, alright so.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So this is just the idea behind modularity. OK, I think we're in a in a little while we're going to.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Jump into the notebook. So again, when you do Community detection, you can do a divisive one, which we will implement in the notebook. An agglomerative one. We will also implement in the notebook so that you know you don't just do import community and that's it. Or use Gaffey and find modularity. Just just one application. Alright, I'm going to discuss you.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Or we move on. This is just a community of words. So framing analysis in in communication research is is about quantifying what is the central organizing idea for making sense of an issue so you can have facts, but depends on how you present. The fact is the frame of your story. OK, you can talk about immigration, but then if you're left wing and you're going to present the topic on immigration in a different way than how are right winged, one would present it. Right, so how do you identify the different frames? Usually I'm sorry. Usually what traditional communication researchers do is they read through all the texts. It could be for exam.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Paul. Hundreds of text and then they will identify using their expertise. What kind of framing is in this article. But what we wanted to do was make it more automatic so well.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
I did was from from a text so I'm just going to skip. This is just an example of an article. And experts would read through them one by one and then classify, oh, it's under this kind of framing. OK.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
But what we did was from this text. We convert it into a network eventually. OK, so first we removed the stop words. Alright, and then we generalize conceptually similar terms and then finally obtained a high frequency words and then from here.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
We built a network of Co occurrence so we have a sliding window when 2 words Co occur in a window, we draw a connection between them one and then we put on weights from there we did some.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
The community detection algorithm import community get best partition and we have a paper. OK so so these are the different words. The small ones, the bigger ones, the more they occur in the in the articles and we were able to identify three clusters which was in agreement with the Community communication research experts. So you can really see. So we were able to just do it in one sitting versus they would do it like months even years because. You would need multiple experts to read through all articles and they have to agree. What's the frame, what the framing is for each of the article. So this is just one way that you could use Community detection. All right, let's jump to the book. Alright, let's see.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Dive in. This is pretty straightforward. We're just going to go through all the different methods. The three methods that we discussed. Alright, first the packages that we need. And we're going to use the Zachary Karate Club, one. They've been using this for the study of community detection. In fact, I'm not so sure if you are familiar with the Zachary Karate Club Club. It's a club of speakers. Everything. There's a conference in complex networks. The first person who would use this network. All right, it could be a very big conference, gets a trophy, and this trophy gets passed on different conferences. So OK, let's load it up. And look at the size an order. Let's let's plot it. And this is how it looks like. OK. And in the real world, this is how they were split. The nodes that joined Mr High who is the instructor is here. And then John A are this. Gay. And it's I just learned about this network X nodes plotting function that you can in fact like node list in Murray. Hi, it can automatically color it if it belongs to a list. Right, you can see here draw networkx nodes wherein the node list is equal to Murray Chai, which is this one on the top. And then it will automatically color it red. Alright, I think that's pretty and then no listen Johnny, you could color it blue. I'm using the same position so you can see how it is. I mean, once it's assigned to a community. So you can find clicks. I think you went through that. So first method would it would be divisive. This is the Girvan Newman algorithm. So what happens here is that we start from a big network and you start cutting edges. But how do you choose which edge to cut? You rank them by edge between us. The higher the edge between us then they are the first ones to be cut, OK? So here we just get the edge between us. So the first one is the connection. The link between node zero and node 31. That's the first one that we're going to cut. OK, so I'm first going to make a copy of the original Karate Club so we can use it later. And then. We do this Iteris Terra Tively, so first hyest between us edge between us cut it and then calculate again. The next highest edge between us and then cut it again and do this 10 times, and then here's here's what we have. OK, so you can see that this this node. This cluster here is already isolated from this cluster here. So now you have two communities, so this is the girlfriend Newman method. It's pretty straightforward, it's very good. OK, now let's go to Agglomerative method. The first would be hierarchical clustering. We're going to just look at the distances or the similarity of nodes. The more similar they are. Then we cluster them together in one community. The distance, so the path length between the two. OK, so if the path length between. They don't zero and N 33 is like 10. Then they're like very far from each other, so we'll have a similarity matrix. OK, and then you cluster them. If it's 1 degree then the higher it is that they would be clustered together. OK. And we do this with this function. I think you can just study this later. And. Here are the different partitions. We're just generating it using the agglomerative clustering, the hierarchical one we get this. Can I zoom out? Yeah, we get this grouping. There are four classes, but you can see that you can actually combine the blue one and then this light blue one here and then. This one here and then this one right? So this is another model. It does reconstruct, maybe not exactly, but it reconstructs what's happening in the real world, so you can also use that. And this is the dendrogram of how they are clustered. So this is the first cut. There they all start with singular nodes and then you start to combine them and then eventually if you keep on combining them you will of course have one single community. And now here the modularity based community detection. This is what Gaffey uses. This is also probably what you use at least now you know how it's done. So what happens here is you also agglomerate. You also combine nodes, but every time you combine nodes, you check the modularity of the entire system. If the modularity increases, then you keep that one and then you keep on grouping them together, clumping them together, making sure that you are maximizing the modularity. OK, is that clear. Yes. So these are just the slides that we had earlier, OK? She is really just this line here. I mean, I could have just given a 5 minute presentation, but yeah, OK. Sorry, Oh yeah. Yeah, that's a very good question. All of the models have their own kind of advantages and disadvantages. I think you would need to really have to look at the references for this one because you could look at like computational complexity or probably depending on how connected that your networks are, but normally based on what I've seen so far, they would usually use the Community, the modularity maximization one, but I'm pretty sure there are. Newer models out there, yeah? Alright, so if you do the partition using modularity maximization by Louvin, then you're going to have this. So how how does this network compare to the original 1? Can you can you look? I think 9 is a bit misplaced. Right? Yeah, nine should be blue, but it's red here so it's not perfect. This is how models work, but at least it gives you a good idea. An approximation of what the system really is, so you can try the device in by Griffin and human. Or you can try to agglomerative by revash, the one that we discussed just now. Or you can try this one. Alright, and then some real world networks. We're almost done, I'm just. I think this might take awhile if I load this up can you try it on your computers? I'll try it as well. Yeah it is a big network. That's why we're also you will notice in the notebook. I commented out the plotting. What I did instead was exported to Gaffey, so we can just plot it using F. You were not going to calculate this, so we're just going to jump here and this is how it looks like. Anyway, Gaffey uses the same community detection algorithm here, so this is what you will see there. It's really interesting when you dive in, especially if you know the different heroes. In Marvel I is Wolverine, Marvel gyno. Yeah, OK, so yeah, I'm very confused with Superman and all this. Alright. And yeah, you can. You can have a look at the different elements inside a community by just running this code here and then you can print like the first 10 communities you can see. Oh sorry, I didn't write it earlier. Anyway, let's just skip it and then the Co occurrence network. The framing analysis that I showed earlier. I also provided the data for that. You can run it yourself. You can find partitions you can look for words that coexist. In one community, so you can have that as well. And finally the political blog. You also have the data you should have downloaded that. And yeah, we can plot it. Oops, takes awhile. Sorry. And we can find the community in the political block, the one that I showed you earlier and we can color the different nodes based on their classification. So red or blue. OK, so yeah, here in this one we still have the isolated nodes. What we're doing in the next few cells is just focusing on the giant component, which is the one at the center and then zooming in on this one such that we will have this big node here. OK. Yeah, that's it for the Community detection. Talk if you have questions, just feel free to ask. It's very descriptive in nature. And yeah, you can start with your projects if you have no more questions. Sorry. How does the? This. I think it's the need for scientists to quantify things. So even if you have, for example a divisive method, you really have no way to tell if it's important or not. Yeah, one thing about modularity is is it only makes sense if you have another network to compare it against. OK, another kind of partitioning to compare it again, so you know that it's better or not. Yeah, I'm not really sure how they came up with it. Might be there walking in the park or something, but. Yeah, at least we have a measure of the partitions. The modularity with higher modularity that. Now I mean I comparing the different partitioning for the same network. Yeah, for example, just going back to this structure here. This is these. Are these two are the same networks, right? But this one you have a different partitioning compared to this one, so you can get the modularity of this one and compare it with the modularity of this one. But in terms of models comparing models, I think that this is a bit more comprehensive and we would be need to look at the references for this one. German. Is this difference? Or some combination. Description. Yeah. Question. Explanation Chapter 9. Yeah, the book is like at the bottom I provided it under the bottom of this table. Yeah, that works science one. Yeah, so you're just subtracting. So what really happens? This value here is just the connectivity. If you just put their edges in random across the network versus the actual one that you have. So just subtracting it. The modularity can be negative. It can be negative.
