[0.0s - 29.0s]
Again, thanks for coming back on 92. I think you're going to see some connections to yesterday's talk and. Lots of differences at the same time. One of the things to connect though is the idea of graphic design and ways in which we breakdown in drawing or in pattern making almost anything. And especially cities. Of course, cities are real, visceral, physical worlds in places, but at the same time there mappable and in the case of the United States, there obviously not centuries old organic cities, and most of them were instantly put together, generally in the forms of grids and. The second thing that's relevant to this talk, that's very particular, is that all of our work. I would say for the last five or six years has only been in a contingent site in the city. We don't have projects in the landscape. We don't have projects in nature. We only have projects that are completely and utterly constrained by the city. And so the evolution of the office has become one in which we take on how to read not only the city and how to accept it and essentially work with it.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
And so forth. And I want to. I want to talk about the grid just in terms of kind of Contacts. That's the the X and the Y part of the talk. And if you were giving a talk on grids, everybody would have one. Everybody would have a relationship to them at some fundamental level, especially if you're working as a contemporary architect. So the continuous monument by Superstudio. Of course. I'm pretty sure everybody knows this. From 1969, one of the kind of sublime projects that happens in the time in which suburbia is expanding in cities around Italy, shockingly enough around consumer society and so forth, and so superstudio kind of holds up a mirror and says, you know, a lot of things about the idea of everything being the same everywhere, all the time, and but it being a kind of ambivalent. Project it's also in this particular view, as though there's some aspect of nature being represented, but it's almost like a real modernist tabular rasa of degree zero, and we're going to start from scratch at some particular level. It also represents the idea of loss, the loss of something like the local. So it's an ambivalent thing about the nature of the grid in kind of contemporary.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Terms so around the same time Rossi builds the Gallery teze an while this building is not strictly itself situated in a grid, it's actually in a Greenfield along with Imoni knows slab buildings. When you look at this project it was trying to build the idea of obviously the pokes most Marxist regime of the. Idea that everybody in the city gets a cell of space and the cell is a kind of funny dual term as well. Sell as in the penal sense of cell and then if you remember yesterday I was talking bout Kurokawa and space units. So space units sells packing and incredibly insistent ways. And in this case challenging, almost like minimal music, challenging architecture, challenging the inhabitant to deal with this kind of machine. Of the grid, but Rossi, after Superstudio was using the grid to invoke the question of the urban social problem in the form of architecture. So this is the point where the grid has meaning and the meaning is based on the question of the urban.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And the social. Around the same time, just to give you a perspective 'cause that's part of what I want to do. You have a European perspective. I'm coming out of American academic work. My undergraduate time was from 1975 to 1980 and we were we, as students were deeply influenced by people like Eisaman where. The autonomy of architecture was proposed as being something that was essentially about itself, and in this particular case this is isaman's grid that explores the grid as a language, and in fact he was using what was called deep structure by the theorist. Then in the activists now Noam Chomsky. So what do layers of space mean? They don't mean anything other than what they are, so this is the grid as a language problem. And we know that there's urban problems with the grid. And I say problem because in a way we're always dealing with the condition of the problem, not strictly for looking for solutions but dealing with working on the problem that almost never gets resolved. And then we've got the autonomous project of the grid as a as a tectonic language as a language of Mateer.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Real life, so the Z part. I'm not the first person to use a zebra to invoke something here, but the main thing with the. Idea of understanding grids and cities as being about social conditions. Democratic grids got played out in in the United States and the Democratic Jeffersonian grid already invoked the idea of the political. Oblock oblock Oblock Oblock an we're going to work on it and way in which it promotes a kind of sharing world. At the same time, grids as you know, we're deeply abstract. We were talking about abstraction yesterday. So the zebras is a member of the equine family. The family that includes horses. But horses, of course historically have been used for lots and lots of functional things as well as sport people. Buy them paid lots of money, race them. They're beautiful. As far as I know, people don't ride zebras very much, if at all. They don't own them as pets. People generally don't. They're not for sport, an in a funny way. They resist everything. That the horse is otherwise trying to do, but they are also very closely related, so the Z or the zebra of course refers to the vertical dimension in architecture. But really it might in my case refer to anything that's going to deviate from whatever grid we're looking at or working at in the same time, and I think that this is a way of saying that we all work with these kinds of systems and forms of organization and repetition, and this is my. Let's say slightly odd way of.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Let's say describing the differences in the form of repetition. The other thing is, most of this work I'm going to show is is in the commercial world for developers, and the only reason why we get a Commission as opposed to. Let's say a corporate office who does really good sober work is because the client says under all the normal conditions to build a project. Here's your site. Here's the grid. Here's your money. You're also supposed to do something unique, and so in essence, somewhere in there, there's the deviant program somewhere in there. The call is for action to not repeat. So how do you do that, and to what degree? And so these projects are going to. Engine size in level of budget. An fit and finish an location. We're going to start in New York and then a whole series of projects on the West Coast, but the most well known project that I've done is located here on the Highline in Manhattan. This is 23rd St 10th Ave is making this big cruciform an there is a stair that connects the highline from the street level at. 23rd St and in essence, when the Highline was being proposed and understood to be this kind of transformative park which was about 2003. Up until today, there's been 4.5 billion dollars of architecture built in. What's at 15 years, 4.5 billion? And that's just the cost of construction. The value of the land is who knows what it is. It speaks a lot about the transformation of.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Manhattan now in 1960 when Somp does this incredibly beautiful project on Park Avenue and 59th St, It's represented representing high Modernism in all. It's very, very clear, but really beautiful components here. It's a building on the corner, the Somd building. It's one central base structurally that appears to cantilever on two sides that actually only cantilevers on. This side because the building otherwise connects back to a party wall, so this big black reveal is back where the stair is, and it's essentially a joint which allows the building to detach and float free, as if to say you could build a freestanding building in Manhattan, where otherwise you typically can't. I love this project. It's boiled down to kind of the essence of what modernism was about. Open slab spandrel, nice glazing, and so forth. So our building on the right just becomes a by definition, almost not the cause of any ambition on my part, because we have a program on the one hand that's different than this Pepsi Cola building and also an ambiguous zoning situation. The Highline, zoning required 15 feet of set back from any point in plan along the highline. Now when I got the Commission, however. Curious way that I did, which is a whole other story. My client said I want you to push out as far as you can because I want to build more floor area because the site is so constricted. So on the one hand it sounded like a developer with the usual sort of ambition to gain more, but on the other hand the site was so challenging that it was almost an undeveloped oball site. So we began with this. Dare almost an he said, if you can figure out how to get it approved then I'll build it. I didn't really think that he would but we took it on as a project and you can already see in this particular scenario that the project actually only sets back at the bottom 8 feet, then in the middle where it's vertical, it's actually in line with the highline and then at the very top it's 5 feet in the highlights. The only building. With private floor plate in public space, there are private floorplate in private scenarios, but not in this case, and so it was a one time only. Set of eight waivers that we presented. And of course we had to make the.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
The argument for what this project would do. And part of the argument. But it was an argument that doesn't work in terms of city planning. Is the city planning says you need to figure out a way to tell us a story about why this project wouldn't be damaging to New York and to the Highline, but at the same time they saw the project and understood it as a potential sort of little mini icon happening. So even the cities looking for forms of difference in forms of novelty, our client certainly is. And the city and the grid wants to push back the X and the Y just want to continue to dominate the project. It's two bays wide, so it's it's working off of something that I was learning off the Somd project. There's a small Bay. One side is the elevator and the stair. You can see the penthouse at the top. There is one floor is an apartment except for the bottom, which is a duplex in the top penthouse, which is also a duplex that you see on the left and this issue of how high? How tall? Because it's also 15 feet too tall. It also doesn't step back in the way in which it's supposed to set back either in section on the East facade. This is the North facade and essentially the building is a diagram of all its urgency to try to zebra fi the grid of the city.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And you can see the normative conditions. So this is looking due East due West to New Jersey, there's the cruciform of 10th Ave, and you see how the building agrees, of course, to the axis of the site, but the way in which the prism works against the street. Typical wedding cake setbacks are the things that actually drive the idea of the X and the Y in the grid of the city. So this is both a sculptural. Project a formal project on economic problem. All these things about language, economy, and even possibly the social coming to play out.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
In this particular project. Where we split the skin on the East facade. This is a stainless steel. Cladding with aluminum trim. The project starts to take on a particular type of life inside where each apartments like got a new.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
New condition or experience and you can even see. Units that are interfacing with the highline. There's a jog in the highline, a spur and the Highline, which, of course, is existing in like a building and a key to move the building just simply gets out of the way because we're not going to ask the city to take apart the highline. So even these odd things, creating questions about the shape and the footprint resolve themselves down in this particular kind of corner. So this is a private building for 12 wealthy owners. But it's also a project which aims from our point of view, to, oddly enough, be a public.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Building so inside each unit is affected by the perimeter of the building and the geometry of the building, and of course the way in which the structure works. So here's the. The underslung grid. It's the same type of XY grid, with the with the window it's just pulled in, and then a diagonal is running across that.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
And here on the 8th floor in the middle of the building where the building is actually very wide, the way in which the structure tracks through the into.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Eerier uh, essentially.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Becomes a diagram of a wafer of Cartesian space that's articulating the X and the Y just like everything else going on in the city and then at least. How this structure works, which the structure really came in with the building from the very beginning, because the structure was part of the diagram that I came up with. How to deal with the perimeter structure with a building that's twisting and cantilevering in two directions?

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So almost everywhere you look both outside and inside, you're getting this relationship between the XYZ part of the project. So these are the these are the zebra stripes working against the normative condition of. The horse, the animal that's native in terms of its. Let's say ordinariness.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
And the structure is deeply experiential at the perimeter of the site. At the perimeter of the apartment you can see a white. Ceramic frit, which mimics the structure and the reason why we put that in there is because most of the time the blinds are down and the blinds conceal the structure and so we wanted to print the structure. The legibility of the structure on the building 24 hours a day for.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
People reading it and there you see it constantly as a as a Halo as a as a. Really like a reflection.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Even the desk the desk is carved not by a robot, by by hand, by a person, by a Craftsman. In northern Italy they took a giant piece of stone. We gave them a digital model and they didn't put it into any robotic systems, even the desk, which is a piece of Carrera. Marble, which is of the Earth. The building is a metallic grid object which is doing its kind of quirky things. And then the desk sits there to essentially wiggle around and mediate against the X and the Y.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
The West coast of the US is an incredibly. I would say important location in global conditions and global economies and I'm going to show you projects in Los Angeles and Vancouver today.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
I'm tracking down Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, the Bay Area, Los Angeles, San Diego, Tijuana, which goes out into Mexico. This incredible corridor of economy has advanced in eight years at a rate of 32%, to the extent.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
That California has the 5th largest GDP in the world 2.85 trillion dollars. So what comes with all of this intensity? Silicon Valley Apple novelty new Tech is a lot of excitement. an A lot of conjecture about where all that money goes, as well as all the problems that be set. Cities, especially like Los Angeles, which are still dependent on.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Car travel so we get back to the grid and you can start thinking about the idea of the city as a series of pixels or voxels, and it's in some ways Los Angeles is remarkable and unremarkable at the same time, because this is really what the situation of the city is. So I'm going to show you a site plan for each project, what it's doing in the grid, and then we're going to.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Look at the response. Now this Richter painting if have you seen the movie of Richter with the squeegee paintings that he really you know, a master at this and so he puts lines of yellow paint and green paint out and essentially sets up a kind of grid. In this particular case with the abstract painting then comes in with the squeegee. So I superimpose the same block grid on top of that to tell you a story which is Los Angeles is grid is. Real, but it's also very strange sometimes, and you live LA in your head. It's a little bit fuzzy. A little bit of a mix.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Are of colors all the time? Before I probably even knew about Richter, and as long as I've been in Los Angeles, which is now 30 something years, I've been doing fictitious projects more when I was younger on the issue of how tall how high, some of the same questions that we worked on much, much later in New York City. That's essentially a thick 2D world running with freeways, an lightweight construction. This is a project for shopping housing an office. Up to 8 stories, about 400 meters long. Even with the freeway running through it. So the question about the grid and the relationship of how, let's say the freeways again intersect something like the relentless nature of the grid. Buildings and slabs, an columns and the normative world of modernism here then played out in a set of facades that modulate regularity, modulate and play with repetition. Yet you can imagine this just extending almost.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
The length of the city.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
So the first project in LA is 125 foot square. It's not on the major corner, but it's right off the major corner. It's across the street from a enormously ugly shopping center. This is a fallow site, it's just an auto repair.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Site and in essence it took 20 years of speculating on architecture in LA with a lot of persistence to be able to ask about how high and how tall. Now this is a hotel. It's 8088 rooms. There are eight apartments that create a mixed use at the top of the building there's a rooftop bar and we have to park a reasonable number of cars and the urban issue is how to deal with this program and deal with it into. Arms of the site. The other thing I should.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Say is that the building reads here it's light. You see it slightly off the off the corner. I would say within five years there will be an equally large building on either side of this, which in a way starts telling a story. This is in West Hollywood City, within a city that's actually highly populated and this is a district that's going to be intensively developed. You can see the scale of the city on the right side of the image, so in essence we have to convince the city which we have that this building could sit there as. Let's say as a interesting quasi iconic building for which the shock of scale around it will completely start changing. So this is what's going on with the city like Los Angeles, where it's moving past swimming pools in the backyard. It's moving past the idea that it was a city of the future, based on the luxury of weather, and it's going to turn into something, maybe not New York, but something quite.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Different, it's a stainless steel skin, same type of bead blasted stainless steel that we just saw on the project in New York. The parking garage is peeking out over here, but otherwise this is a building that's managing to conceal the parking. So on the lower three floors of the building, the rooms are single loaded and above the parking there double loaded and it's also a bit of a.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Shape shifting project. It's a very tight. Project you get dropped off the elevator core is nothing more than a portal to be able to go into the fifth floor to check in.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And here is the West facade on the Main Street called La Brea and the furrows of the project are about introducing repetition. Again we have Windows as repetitive forms. Conic transitions on either side of the building, or meant to lessen the bulk. These are all things having to do with the fact that we know that there will be a building here in a building here, so it's going to participate as an urban facade, but at the same time it's going to anxiously also claim its own autonomy at the same time, so this invokes some aspects of the Rossi grid and some aspects of the grid of Peter Eisenman.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
The ground floor is white ceramic tile.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
And the columns this is the public art. Component of the project we're working with an artist named Jim is Herman, who deals himself in repetitions patterns. I've worked with him on three projects before and it works into the language of the building quite.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Quite clearly now from the East facade you see the grittiness of the context, the things yet to come, the target store across the street. It's a very chaotic. You know, this is North America. It's not pretty. It's wood frame and stucco and junk everywhere. And so suddenly you do something like this. It's meant to be. Device which is going to transition help transition the city into a different type of environment. But you can suddenly see it's a relatively thick project. It's on the floor plan. It's a double loaded, but essentially the building is an L or carved out box on the back.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So it's a bit of a shape shifting project. There you see the parking garage lurking behind. Now again, just to let you know there will be another 10 Storey building coming up here, so the parking will be largely concealed though.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
There. You go up to the fifth floor. That's the terrace for the swimming pool garden. We've got a 5 foot interstitial plenum space so we can actually plant legitimate.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
Trees to make a kind of not very. I would say classic Desert garden, but something that will have a different kind of aesthetic to it in relation to what we normally think about as landscape design.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
There's the top floor where it's a hybrid of hotel rooms, rooftop bar, and. Residue

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
All units this project is. I think is probably the most zebra zebra like project you'll see why. Oddly enough, it's a project where it takes on some of the aspects of what we were doing in New York, which is cantilevering building over another building. Yet it doesn't have the same, let's say process and entitlement politics, because our client owns this existing building. This lot of space. Where are green building is and has just constructed this new. Office building with parking garages. Well, the top two floors of the building on the right. Our offices so that set the height limit for our project. Because this is a total development context.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
And our aim was to take a parking lot, connect parking on grade Bitconnect parking below that would connect to this existing building on the right and essentially produce a small. Street Shopping St Experience that's a block off of the main.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
The Main Street. So we propose turning these into restaurant, San and boutiques. It's right now in postproduction loft space an the building ascential E like the New York project just migrates wherever it can to be able to make the kind of project work. And in this particular case we wanted to make a giant saw fit to make a public space to act as a kind of marker. And so the building just moves around to try to adjust itself to the site in the same.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
The way that it did in New York and so one way drive with the core offset.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
It each floor starts to do something quite different and react to the conditions of not only circulation and straw.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Sure, but required open space. We the Gray areas we have to have 4. Low impact development. So in a way, we're just moving these coordinates of the X and the Y that conforms to the grid of the city. We're just simply moving these things around in this case and plan much, much more.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Or than before to the extent that the organization of the building at the top floor is not a rotated rectangle, but just simply a shifted rectangle too.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Do. Liberate itself from the building in the back. It's concrete, it's concrete up to the top floor. The top floor is steel an we're using steel here because we can only put three columns into the existing building and we don't want to have scaffolding to support structure above and at the end of the building. Hanger rods are being able to pick up the cantilever, so it's a hybrid sectional project.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
Act as well and language wise and rhetorically, it's using the gridded building here, somewhat the gridded building here for as bookends to be able to look at the way in which thing is agitated but agitated, not by really our hand to make something work in an odd way. We're simply, I think, putting this thing into the fitness level that it needs to be to make the project work. And whereas on one end you saw a kind of inverted Z on the other end, it's an L. It's almost like the building twists, even though all it's doing is shifting in plan.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
The next project is a that was an office building. This one is also the same size project 30. 32,000 feet, three 3000 square meters. They're both exactly the same size, different different context, and the grid in the city here is tweaked off of North South. This major Blvd is running East and West, and so we already have a little bit of a quirk going on in terms of the way in which the box of the site is already being trimmed, and so each one of these buildings along this Blvd and this is not a. Is not a sexy. This is a transitional neighborhood. This is warehouses pre and post war houses and this is really a really strict infill.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
Building project. The building is set back 10 feet on each side because probably here if you build to the lot line or two party wall you get no glass anelay if you go back five feet you get 20% glass. If you go back 10 feet. You get 50% glass, and so if you're moving that end then you've got to make all these adjustments to be able to get the floor area ratio. All the usual types of developer constraints and so forth, but this is really strictly an example of how it means to build in any city, and in this particular case it's it's Los Angeles. And how are you going to excavate essentially a project which on paper doesn't look like it's going to give you anything number one? The program is empty. It's three 32,000 square feet of empty space, and we're left at this particular level to make an expression for the project, and so we then go back to the grid. Really, as a language problem world, not the urban problem per say. So if you look at the project, it's just. Parking below and we've got 2 main floors of office which are pretty much repetitive and if you diagram that out in terms of structure of the structural grid and so forth, you'd ask questions about am I going to make a stratified project? Am I going to make a stacked project? Am I going to try and deal with verticality and so forth? So in this particular case? We make two. Well, the idea on the North facade is to make 2 very large closed figure windows. They are long like ribbon windows, but there are also in terms of a form, closed figures. They're like giant punched Windows. The second thing we're doing with the beveling that you see above the exit stair and also with the notch on each side is to make the building look like it's built out of modules more. A sense of repetition, and then the striping of course is the.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Be pretty literal. Thing to produce diagonally to produce a certain level of clash. Although the graphic design is, I would say very. It's low contrast, the building actually on the corner is responding to a technical issue, not only the telephone pole, but the transformer to the site must be open to the Sky, so we didn't create the notch on the corner. The conditions of the site did, so we're just dealing with all of these.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Situations to be able to arrive at a project. Finally, about design. It's a straightforward machine. This is the ground floor with leased space parking which spirals down.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
Below there you see the oddball. Notch on the corner to allow the transformer to exist and we have to have a certain minimum distance away from the transformer. Otherwise the building is. Straight 4.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Word. So we turn it into a project about repetition and modularity, so it's the building starts tracking to the back.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
The notches drop away. They essentially like waves, dissipate and the two D diagonal track.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Back in the building becomes relatively normative in the back, so this is a for me. These kinds of projects are quite fun and this is a way to how much blood can you squeeze from the stone where you imagine there isn't a project at all?

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
This is, as you see, it's a site. With the existing building just below the Yellow square and large parking lot, and we've done a master plan 5 year master plan for the entire project, I'm just going to show you one building that will be part of a phase one. It's just to the South of a major freeway, hundreds of thousands of cars per day, and so we're in the grid of the city, of course. And yet we're going to kind of. Somewhat low density moment, that's a school right next to this building on the West.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
It's a very modest project. It's Woods construction on top of concrete with parking below. What's maybe noticeable about this particular view? This is the existing building, which is a hospital being renovated. By others into apartments? That's a hotel on the corner that's a new hotel that the city asked the architects doing that too. Mimic building a modernist building down the street, and so we're left in a way with a certain level of freedom behind on that open part of this site. Will be a long horizontal building with a 40 story tower to be built in the future and there's a driveway which moves underneath the building. Very autopia. Very accommodating to the car. You know. On the one hand, and that's part of it. But this is about being able to move through our building on the ground floor to be able to get back to what will be essentially a little micro city in.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
In the future. I don't have plans of this. I didn't get them into the presentation, but what's going on with the building is it's a slightly offset center core project where the bundle of Windows in the middle. We've got long units going back through the building and where we've got fewer windows. Those units are rotating, so we've got essentially orientations on each side, and it's not a double loaded corridor project. This is a plaster. Concrete and a little bit of pain in aluminum. A very modest, modest project and working with the structural engineer too. Let's say modify the.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
The way in which the X and the Y are working here with the embossed grid into the front and back facades, we anticipate shadow patterns doing what they're doing there and using shadows is kind of free graphic design to constantly produce a level of triangulation within the facade. It's not, it's not new, it's not novel, we're just dealing with repetition and geometry and using sun in this case to help us make the zebra. The temporality of the zebras.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
It's a play out.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
So this is some temporary landscaping here. Will have a shopping street with a pretty dense second phase of architecture with the tower at the end. So this is about a transitional moment between the first phase in a second phase with restaurants at the ground floor.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
That's the common lobby on the.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
On floor apartments are again. These are almost micro units. Very, very straightforward.

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
Packing up so when I look at these, I think about kurokawa's. Space units in the city. I even think about Rossy's talking about, uh, the postmarks's cell in the.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
City these are rental units for I think working class working class folks. We're back to the same street that the blue building is on. We're about. 1 kilometer away and on this street we're actually doing 4 buildings and. They'll come out of the ground all at the same time in about two or three months. This is a infill.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
30 room hotel project, and if you're seeing similarities happen with all of this is because the conditions of the city just start to impose themselves again and again and again. We're on the same side of this Main Street. We have a transformer on the corner. That's notching the corner of the project, and that does really quirky and interesting things. An in this particular case, this is a. This is a 35 room hotel that the courtyard is meant to be an extension of public space, which also starts to talk about Los Angeles. Probably more like a city like Lubiana where we hope pedestrian life will start to come up notwithstanding cars and parking garages. And ideas of transparency between inside and outside, even though this is really a still a kind of a private world.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
But it's meant to be accessible. The driveway has to swerve to get out of the way of the condition of the infrastructure, which of course starts a whole series of action in terms of shaping the courtyard, it's just a donut in terms of its typology and the one thing you'll see is a stair which projects into that void that connects from the lobby, which is also.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
Rather modest at the same time. I wish I had a plan of LOTR at but if you know the small piece that pokes into the courtyard, we could only hope that that kind of reference would be thought of in this particular building, the. Aren't you see on the side is by Kenny Scharf. Kenny is a artist of the vintage of Keith Haring. He came up in New York as a street artist, has lived in Los Angeles for a long time, and he sold his studio on this site to the developer. He's a friend of the developer as well, and the developer helped Kenny build a new studio, so we're going to have Kenny do a couple of.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
His his murals there is the typology which is circulation at the perimeter where we have no view and rooms look into the courtyard which is going back to some of the typology's of the 1950s and 60s and then the circulation switches out for the North and South where we've got longer views.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
Into the city and development of our kind of simple geometry, I'll talk about the geometry. Some of these quirks, geometric works.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
In a minute.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
Is that third floor which is more or less of repetition of the?

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
Top floor and here we are looking back out to the city.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
Another project on the in the grid. But when we're migrating from. One part of the city to the next. The urban morphology remains the same. This projects in Beverly Hills, and so the scenario of the project in terms of his development and fit and finish, starts to become quite a bit different than what we've seen before. But I seem to get projects that are connected to how to address the corner in Los Angeles or infill projects that are going to be about how to.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
Essentially, make an urban urban facade.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
I go back to the building.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
I also am remember this is a building that desperately wanted to appear to be a freestanding building in a city that just wants to make buildings glued together. So the stair is pushed back. As we said in this particular case. Whoops

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
That's exactly what's going on here. We have an exit stair and we managed. This is a 1.5 FAR project. This is also 3000 square meters. This is exactly the same size as the green building. The first green building and the Blue Building, and even the last project was a similar size, so we're dealing with this 3000 square metre chunk of urban space in the city and we're doing everything we can to liberate. The upper floors to be able to make a garden on the site you see the. Six story storage building. It's a blank facade on Wilshire Blvd. It's a main Blvd in the city. It's like this in terms of urban elevation. It's very inconsistent, so this also became a meditation on what was the urban interface and the typology. The project. In this case, our clients ask us to make a 100% transparent project. They no screens, no double facades, no perforated anything, no nothing essentially.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
They wanted this project and they wanted this project also because of his clients there, they Revere very, very clean, modern design, Mies Somp, and so forth. So the D familiarizing aspect of taking color and.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
In this case, color in the form of metallic paint to transformer project. Before this we did a number of schemes. We did black schemes referencing nice. We did white schemes and we did silver schemes because those are the three high modern colors. The undisputed colors. If you came in to your client said it will be this they wouldn't question it and they certainly questioned the purple. The purple project. Now the argument was. Annison and it's it's a. It's a rhetorical idea. The City of Beverly Hills came and said this is only an office building, but we really respect you and your work and we want something great, even though it's just a building on the corner and we're tired of Beverly Hills being associated with cheapness with the kind of. Brash commercial identity of the of the city. So I listen to that very closely and you probably know that a color like this is historically related even in the East and the West to royalty. Right and. This was the argument, so the argument was we're presenting to Beverly Hills its own sense of what it is, which is a world of high. But the high in good taste. Oddly enough, purple building would be very questionable for most people.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
In terms of it being a building in good taste and in fact, just anecdotally, when I presented to the Architecture Review Board, five people there not all trained as architects. The first person spoke a lady and she looked me dead in the eye, and she said purple is my least favorite color. I don't have any purple clothes. I don't have any purple shoes. I have nothing purple in my house and I'm thinking. It's going down and she said. But it looks really good on your building and I think I. Would say, Ann. This is really from the back pocket. If I hadn't made that narrative which hypnotised however arbitrary, it is, however personal it is. She wouldn't have bought it anyway. This is the way in which we work with the X and the Y geometrically to make the Z we just simply work with the transformation of the grid. There you see the original cube or the original 90 degree two plane condition. It's the chunk of. Space in the city, and so whether we we generally use cones that move back to an apex so that within one day or one kind of move on the project, we can go from a radial condition to a grid condition to a 90 degree condition to something that's also sending other kinds of messages. This is just found geometry. We didn't invent it. We didn't invent cones, it's all developable surface is. And yet this is like.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
Becomes R. Our kind of trademark. This is a little project in a grid, an existing building that is relatively new. This is a daytime. Restaurant in an office building on a Hollywood studio lot. This is the space we were given. Restaurants, of course are almost half of the program is the back of the House, which is the light Gray that you see here. It's a gridded concrete building. You can see the structural grid there and essentially with the infrastructure of the toilet we get a U shaped space that really is still dominated by the conditions of the.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
Site this is the reflected ceiling plan and the white box in the middle of those grey circles is the VFR. The Air Handling unit, and we know they're in there, and so we've done a lot of work on ceiling structure and design over the years because it's the area that is free. There's no 80, there's no compliance with ceilings. You have a free hand, and we've always exploited that quite a bit, so around each circle we were using perforated drywall, which is a material you guys use here. Lot, but hardly anybody in the States uses perforated drywall and certainly nobody use perforated drywall to make circular, almost like dot pattern forms that themselves have a repeating grid and we also have. Lights that spiral around. Now, the narrative of this two is that these refer to the big fans in the old studios that were on this.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
Site. And. The transition between the the floor, the walls, which are wood and Oak into a kind of horizon line. It's almost like describing a Dome of.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
Dome of Sky in a way. And yet the metaphor doesn't really try to go so far as to talk about that. It's just simply a daytime restaurant where we want it to be pretty buoyant in terms of light and also. Scopic, Lee and perspectively, unless you start walking around and really studied the ceiling in a way some people do, I've been in there. It also reads very noisily and very chaotic Lee. You can't really see exactly what that pattern is with the lights.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
But they're tracking through. They become a little bit more readable here. But they're constantly being cut off and trimmed and truncated. An never kind of complete themselves very often or columns get in the way, so it's totally repetitive. It's totally rigorous, it's totally based on the position of the infrastructure and the distribution of it. And then we're trying to essentially make this D familiarizing effect.

[2523.0s - 2552.0s]
Happen in the atmosphere.

[2552.0s - 2581.0s]
Of the space, this is a existing building in the in the grid of Los Angeles and our client came to us to essentially turn it into a commercial street.

[2581.0s - 2610.0s]
2. Begin a big transformation of an industrial neighborhood into quote unquote kind of walkable district and where. Working with essentially the brick module and the building as a piece of X&Y and the steel inserts with these. R.

[2610.0s - 2639.0s]
Chiz do articulate the X and the Y again in the city in very, very classical kinds of ways, but we call this a project that's a merger between Meason Jean Prouve. Sort of. These two 20th century Masters working in steel, so we fold the steel and the beam. It's a it's a composite steel beam and we are however.

[2639.0s - 2668.0s]
Making odd things happen rhetorically with the project, which is the depth of the beam on the right. With the longer span is the correct depth for the engineered span. The beam depth here you can see is almost double for a shorter span, but in essence this is an arch and this is a window and so the window starts to take on the punched identity versus the arch, so there are rhetorical games that we're working with the same way that we were working.

[2668.0s - 2697.0s]
With them in other projects and here it is.

[2697.0s - 2726.0s]
Last project is a tower in Vancouver. Thank you for your attention and patience. This is a. This is an interesting city. Does anybody been to Vancouver? Probably not. So there is the downtown on the left 100 meter towers. They sprang up since 1980. Two or three, mostly by local architects pouring horizontal slabs and installing window wall systems. They produced what I again called the Snowflake City. Everything the same, only marginally different. Outside the False Creek, it's a North American sprawl city. It the city sells itself on. I think what we were talking about with others today about the Green city of Lubiana the sustainable city. It's the same agenda for. Vancouver, but it's also still a drive in drive out city as well. So blow everyone of those towers of course is a podium with a parking garage and commercial on the ground floor, and that's our given type.

[2726.0s - 2755.0s]
Lodging. So the the image on the left is 1 long block in the grid of the city. It's actually one long block, but half a block. There's an alley in the other direction, and so this is essentially a mega block in the site, but half of 1 one developer doing 3 towers. This is 56 stories, 34 stories, 25 stories, a local Vancouver architect is designed this. This one's in construction. We were given the Commission to do the small tower on the corner. It's mostly residential. I'll show you the program and just a year ago we didn't know it, but we were then given the Commission to do the tower in the center. The tower in the center. I'm not going to talk about tonight. It's largely different from this one because the zoning envelope in the zoning quirks and so forth. And I'll show you didn't didn't operate on this building. It's largely just a rectangular prism with an envelope, whereas the one next to it has all this kind of anxious qualities to it. From the street you can see that the top part of the tower, which I'll describe its geometric evolution just visually and optically, is pretty funny. Pretty quirky, pretty zebra like it's not smooth. There's no clean visual resolution of the top from this particular point, but like a lot of the projects we've done, they are kind of odd shape shifting.

[2755.0s - 2784.0s]
Projects, so there's the. There's the narrative of the form. It could be interesting to you, or it could be very boring because the zoning for the site is 100 meters for the height. The amount of floor area given for the site is a 5.5 FAR, and our client is asking to rezone it to 11. So this site and all sites, every project we're doing, we're doing 4 towers are all about rezoning and having to go through a very, very long process. So we take the maximum footprint of the site we extruded as high as we can go. Then we deal with setbacks. It's 80 feet between towers in Vancouver. We have to slice off the top because we actually did a scheme for this site before with no top that was sliced off. It created shadow problems. So we slice the top off to get rid of Shadow that would fall on North side of the building. Then on the lower left we have a view cone. There are 23 view cones which send these cones of space across the city and you can't build within that cone that affected the white building, but not the black building. And so by the time we get to the fifth step there is no design and well there is some subjective design and then you can see the way in which we. Turn Project which is a gridded building with a funny prismatic top into something whose characteristics it's almost like taking the zebra and making sure that all the stripes.

[2784.0s - 2813.0s]
Through the project, it's a mixed use. With an office building sharing half the podium and visually what we're also trying to do in this project is to disrupt the usual condition of the podium joint. Anna Tower sitting on top of it, and classic modernist.

[2813.0s - 2842.0s]
Type so the building actually doesn't even reach the ground in a way, it's a white brick building, it levitates above the glass first floor. We've carved a big window into the podium, and so essentially, you're meant to read the building as a kind of a big graphic figure that mitigates the issues between.

[2842.0s - 2871.0s]
Zontal and vertical, and there's the. Way in which it does that, so these punched Windows and the big window or part of open floor plate. So that's the kind of rhetorical way in which the building continues to shift the way in which we imagine the X and the Y happening with the urban tectonic of the.

[2871.0s - 2900.0s]
Otium in the tower. Centercore, slightly tweaked.

[2900.0s - 2929.0s]
Each condition at the street starts to take on its own its own level of responsiveness. As well, we have to move the tower back from the office building, but only 60 feet in this case, because it's office and not residential.

[2929.0s - 2958.0s]
And the building is hybrid. There you see the office building and the units mixing together.

[2958.0s - 2987.0s]
And those two programs, the lit up Spaces Office merging with residential at the back. And the prism that migrates from the top all the way down to be able to essentially make the project feel like a.

[2987.0s - 3016.0s]
Something like a whole thing.

[3016.0s - 3045.0s]
There's the middle of the building and these are. 350 square meter, 320 square meter micro apartments. Everything is built in all the beds. Fold out of the wall. Everything is there, even the couches and so forth, so it's like a Swiss army knife.

[3045.0s - 3074.0s]
Going all the way up through the project and so there is the middle. The normative reiteration of the grid. We had an aluminum panel to course play with the eye, so the grid is slightly jostled in terms of the perforation of the window.

[3074.0s - 3103.0s]
As it goes up and then the Zebra project really starts to impose itself again.

[3103.0s - 3132.0s]
As the project goes up, these triangular terraces are a part of that, and when you see the project from this point, the. DNA of the top of the building, which I didn't design now starts to become a sensually affecting the rest of the.

[3132.0s - 3161.0s]
The building below and we get this. Let's say accumulation of moves in a van.

[3161.0s - 3190.0s]
An apartments the stair shifts to the other side of the core to be able to allow the very thin part of the building developable. So we have a connecting.

[3190.0s - 3219.0s]
Stare there.

[3219.0s - 3248.0s]
Well, that's what we're up to these days. I hope that I could connect yesterday and today in a way I think about the city. I think about autonomous objects. I think about beauty. I think about the conditions of the social and try to put this together as much as possible and just really at the end of the day, try and help build, you know, the city. Thank you, very.

[3248.0s - 3277.0s]
Match.
