the Italian cultural heritage Knowledge Graph, developed in collaboration with the Italian Ministry of Cultural Heritage. This standards provide methods and templates for collecting and organizing data on 30 different types of cultural properties. So in this way our code works well also as an example of the application of a methodology. So a first step is the requirements collection in the form of user stories, then translated as competency questions mapped to ontology design patterns. So we developed 7 ontology modules, one dedicated to cultural events, another one to location information and another dedicated to the catalog. In doing so, we applied both direct and indirect reuse. Going into the current taxonomy of cultural properties, we have a top level class. In this case we have a painting the woman portrait by Casper that is related to three physical place is the place where it is currently located at the time of cataloguing the place where it was temporarily stored in 1942 and the place where it was involved in an exhibition in 7073 using state of the art ontologies like Cycle CRM, we could represent the current location and previous locations and movements between locations. CCD maintains the general catalog, which is the official institutional database of Italian cultural heritage that is based upon a collaborative platform named. Card is a persistent information object as it denotes always the same cultural property. The description of the cultural property changes. And for the disambiguation, we are analyzed the key for that specific resource, like the active period of an author. In doing so, we experimented a huge manual effort, so we built a prototype for running unit tests as one of the possible tools needed for supported the support in this methodology. So for concluding, we presented what that to the best of my knowledge, is the biggest knowledge graph of Italian cultural heritage. ARCO Knowledge Graph addresses diverse requirements from applications to discovery science. But our goal is still involving, so there are concepts yet to be modeled. Moreover, we aim at improving and on the wall being extreme design methodology by study, studying how to capture requirements from an open community. So this is what ARCO has done and will do in the future, but what can you do with an for ARCO? So we encourage you to use our code for answering your research questions and to leave us feedback and use cases and requirements. Many new modeling issues like the diagnosis of Palo pathologies or the issuance of a new coin that are not specific to the Italian domain. Anne Anne finally article goes beyond the metadata level and the catalogs perspective aiming at reaching a wide audience of citizens, domain experts, companies, institutions and that's providing data for discovery science and empirical analysis by scholars and researchers. So we publish our code as a Docker container that is available in GitHub and we also maintain a running instance online.