[0.0s - 29.0s]
Hi everyone, I'm Valentina Cordero and I'm here to present you our code. the Italian cultural heritage Knowledge Graph, developed in collaboration with the Italian Ministry of Cultural Heritage. So.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
In Italy I CCD the Institute for the Catalog and Documentation, coordinates cataloging activities by defining standards to allow for consistent cataloging across different institutions throughout the Italian territory. This standards provide methods and templates for collecting and organizing data on 30 different types of cultural properties. Moreover, I

[58.0s - 87.0s]
CCD maintains the general catalog, which is the official institutional database of Italian cultural heritage that is based upon a collaborative platform named. See Jack Webb to which cultural institutions can submit their catalog records that are. There are files describing cultural properties. By now see Jack Webb has almost 3 million catalog records, 800,000 or which are publicly accessible through the general catalog. The quality of.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Our database and its highly reliable provenance is guaranteed by a formal accreditation of institutions and a data validation phase with regard to both scientific quality and compliance with these cataloging standards. Even so.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
A catalog record counts as an XML file where in most cases data about cultural properties are nothing but strings. Anyway, how does?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
The resulting knowledge graph look like today archa knowledge graph is both an ontology network of seven ontology modules with default 5000 axioms and 1000 predicates reusing 11 external ontologies and a data set of almost 170 million triples and more than 20,000 identity links to entities in eight external datasets and two controlled vocabularies. There are.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Many motivations to this work. Of course, publishing a knowledge graph can help and institutions to improve data management to announce cultural property, cultural properties, it safeguards, and to enrich them by means of connections to other knowledge basis. It fosters reuse by different actors and can have impact on different domains like tourism and teaching. But ARCO is more than these. Its ontology network addresses. Many new modeling issues like the diagnosis of Palo pathologies or the issuance of a new coin that are not specific to the Italian domain. So reusable in different contexts. Anne Anne finally article goes beyond the metadata level and the catalogs perspective aiming at reaching a wide audience of citizens, domain experts, companies, institutions and that's providing data for discovery science and empirical analysis by scholars and researchers. Anne, this is course the ultimate goal of Arkham.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
So we publish our code as a Docker container that is available in GitHub and we also maintain a running instance online. In the last three months we had almost 1400 views and these Docker is multi language. It supports both Italian and English.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
It provides user guides that documents ARCO with narrative explanations and diagrams and.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
It is possible to access to a human human readable documentation of the ontologies, but also to their source code.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
A sparkle in point allows to query the knowledge graph in the last three months. We had about 145 thousand sparkle queries and it is also downloadable as compressed dump.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
And users are provided with examples of competency questions that give an idea of what is inside our code with the respective sparkle queries ready to be run in order to support users from different backgrounds.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
In developing our college graph, we applied the extreme design methodology that is an iterative and incremental methodology pattern based and test driven. In. Applying this methodology, we documented each step and we shared both narrative explanations and data and software produced. For example, during the testing phase. So in this way our code works well also as an example of the application of a methodology. And can be used by other projects that want one to reuse extreme extreme design as an example.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So a first step is the requirements collection in the form of user stories, then translated as competency questions mapped to ontology design patterns. As you know by now, Article wants to reach a wide community and to collect requirements from Beyond domain experts. So we customize this methodology by choosing tools that would allow us to do so. We collected our initial set of requirements by publishing a Google Form online, interacted with our community by means of meetups and webinars. We keep encouraging our users to give us. New feedback and the new requirements by opening issues GitHub and by using a mailing list and finally an early adoption program allowed us to have a continuous interaction with four representative users. Consumers of article.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
So we developed 7 ontology modules, one dedicated to cultural events, another one to location information and another dedicated to the catalog. Other two modules model measurable characteristics of cultural property, like the color they noted, description module and attributes that are associated with the cultural property context description module. The core module represents. General concepts with are orthogonal to the network and the ARCA module represents top level distinctions from the cultural heritage domain and returns the whole network by importing the other modules.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So following the methodology, we reuse ontology design patterns from external from online repositories and from external ontologies if needed. We created new patterns like in the case of recurrent events and we annotated them by using the ontology pattern language. In doing so, we applied both direct and indirect reuse. Directory use makes an ontology highly dependent on possible changes in external ontologies. So we applied directory use only in the case of ontologies we have control on. In other cases, like for sidewalk CRM, European data model, FRB, are we used patterns as templates and we aligned our ontologies to them? An article is a rich model, so many concepts are model as energy relations, but we also support lightweight modeling and an intuitive navigation of the Knowledge Graph. So for example, the material of cultural property is represented as both a situation in which the cultural property has that material and at a certain time and as a shortcut between the cultural property and that's material.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Going into the current taxonomy of cultural properties, we have a top level class. This cultural property and the nine more specific categories like natural or music heritage, and we have two main distinctions between intangible, intangible Cultural properties, an between movable and immovable. But let's see some examples of overused ontologies.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Time patterns. In this case we have a painting the woman portrait by Casper that is related to three physical place is the place where it is currently located at the time of cataloguing the place where it was temporarily stored in 1942 and the place where it was involved in an exhibition in 7073 using state of the art ontologies like Cycle CRM, we could represent the current location and previous locations and movements between locations. But not why? And when that cultural property was located there. So we are.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Are modeled a time index situation in which a cultural properties is in in a certain place at a certain time, and where the location plays a role. It is the finding location, the exhibition location at the storage location. Movie.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Into the catalog world. Here we have a catalog record that describes a Syracusan coin for from the 4th century BC and the content of this catalog record changes, so a catalog.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
Card is a persistent information object as it denotes always the same cultural property. The same object in the world. But it is also a fluent entity because it changes as the content says. The description of the cultural property changes. So I catalog record is related to different catalog record versions that are in a temporal sequence.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Another key step is the data production, where we mapped the XML tags to our ontologies and we produced and the and used a RDF. Either that is available on GitHub. A first problem is that you are right Generation 4 different entities in the world. We selected XML tags that could work as a key as something that could uniquely identify that that a resource, and we use them for the UI. In doing so, it is possible that we are producing duplicates and ambiguous entities for solving the first case we use entity linking against our code itself. And for the disambiguation, we are analyzed the key for that specific resource, like the active period of an author. Of course we lean cover our datasets to our other datasets, like getting vocabulary, so European datasets, geonames DB pedia, and so on.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Um, in extreme design, the testing phase goes together with refactoring and integration. We use the three different types of tests that is verifying competency question coverage, verifying the expected inferences, and injecting inconsistent data for provoking expected errors. For testing our knowledge graph during its development. In doing so, we experimented a huge manual effort, so we built a prototype for running unit tests as one of the possible tools needed for supported the support in this methodology.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So for concluding, we presented what that to the best of my knowledge, is the biggest knowledge graph of Italian cultural heritage. It is available on GitHub as a docker on the node or love and data hub, and it is released with a atribution sharealike license. We developped ARCO knowledge graph using extreme design methodology that is bottom base and we support the reuse of this methodology by other projects. By providing detailed examples of the application of this methodology. ARCO Knowledge Graph addresses diverse requirements from applications to discovery science.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
But our goal is still involving, so there are concepts yet to be modeled. We want to enrich the knowledge graph by extracting knowledge from text, and we want to support to make it multilingual. Moreover, we aim at improving and on the wall being extreme design methodology by study, studying how to capture requirements from an open community. Of diverse types of users and for supporting testing and the reuse of ontology ontologies and ontology design patterns by producing tools.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So this is what ARCO has done and will do in the future, but what can you do with an for ARCO? So we encourage you to use our code for answering your research questions and to leave us feedback and use cases and requirements. If we don't answer your questions yet, contributing to our cause future development.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Thank you. Thanks, it's a really inspiring project. Does cultural property for you map to cultural heritage object and Ed. Can you repeat that so you have cultural property? Does that map to cultural heritage object in the European? Yes, yes sure. So you mentioned. Thanks for the talk you mentioned that you're planning to apply knowledge extraction techniques. Yes, can you say something about which gaps or which type of information are you expecting to to enrich the current graph with? OK, so the problem is that many, many fields are. Taxol, in many cases we could translate that text to entities, but in many other cases we have long descriptions that I mean need to. A knowledge extraction, I mean process in order to extract information. For example, we have long description of surveys, archaeological surveys or tests, or other things that involve cultural, cultural property and we can extract many, many more details on these surveys. While we have now just the type and people involved and. I don't know, yes, so this is just an example, but we have many cases some. So we expect to really enrich the Knowledge graph. Anyone else? I have one, so I'm curious if how you'd actually go about reusing the tools that you built for this project on, say, another set of cultural heritage collections. OK, so one is RDF Pfizer that is the one we used for producing. So for the translation process and it is based on this and arts and of course I mean the catalog records that are used in the context. So the Italian context. So in this case are the advisor, at least initially, is useful also for other institutions to be to be reused and another one but. It can be useful also for mapping this access Lt files. I mean to other rank models and. Another the other one is the tool for supporting test and this one is useful in every methodology that involves testing. I have a very simple question, so you said how you're modeling issues. So my question is your first design, your schema, and then gather the data from who and you just have the data or design the schema. Yeah, which is this? So we started from the data that we had from this Institute and from the cataloging standards that allows us to understand better the data. And also from the requirements or from external external actors. So we have these input data and starting from these we modeled the ontology. OK, let's get Valentina and.
