[0.0s - 29.0s]
It's a pleasure to be here in lovely kalamaki in lovely Crete, even without fiber optics in this part of the island. Maybe the slow down Internet will give us some time to do some speed up thinking. What I'm going to talk.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
But today is processing link data at warp speed. I'm going to try and argue first why this is an interesting topic. And then I just realized now that he said it, there was very there was there was a reduced amount of science in here, so I'll have to try and fix it back in again and. Try and bring this idea of processing ginormous amounts of linked data closer to you and hopefully excite you for the topic. And maybe you might be interested in working on it so. Right most of you, or many of you might have been science fiction buffs at some points. This is actually not a CGI image. This is an image taken from the ISS is this guy if you. If you want to look for it. It started just Google for star trails. This guy he puts up a camera in the ISS and this is this is Earth. You see some Thunder storms here and the stars. He has the shutter open for a long time. You see things moving. This looks pretty cool. This is kind of my homage at my when I was young. I was into space and space travel and I found that really cool and if you look at these science fictions right, they have to travel at warp speed. Have you ever thought about? Why do I need to travel at warp speed so that the reason why?

[58.0s - 87.0s]
I need to travel at warp speed. When I see the following problem right, so this is Earth. Earth is part of a bigger thing. We have the solar system. Here is us. Here is the sun. And if you take the solar system, the solar system is only part of a solar interstellar neighborhood, so this is the sun. And here are some of the stars, right? Alpha, Centari serious, and then my astronomy falls apart. And this whole part is part is in the Milky Way. We're here in the Milky Way. And if you take this and the Milky Way, you have a local galactic group. So here is the Milky Way, and here are some other stars at some other galactic groups. Here is Andromeda. Actually she is close by somewhere, or she was close by. But here is the Galaxy, not the person, and you can go on and on. Here is the Virgo Supercluster of galaxies. Here some local superclusters were here in the middle, just in case you were thinking and on and on and on. And we're going to the observable universe. This is a lot of space. And you need to travel from A to B and you want to do it in a fast way. Light takes a long time to travel from one spot to another. In this distance is so science fiction writers invented this thing called warp speeds to get them faster from one space to another, and now how does work in terms of physics? You know, I'm sure you could write anything I learned about physics. I learned from Star Trek and you'll get an explanation of how this works. I don't know. What's important for this is we're actually finding ourselves in a similar situation, so if you take space and all the stars, you can liken it to our.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
And in the following sense, we do have stars as well if you want to say so entities and we have relation.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Ships between these entities, so we have graphs, right? And those graphs tend to become big and they're getting bigger and bigger every day. This is some depiction of the Internet that I love. It's just beautiful. There is, there are other graphs. This is a very very small part. In 1999 we ran a study that looked at Co mentions of companies in news releases and here is in some way it looks very similar. Clusters of companies and news releases that Co mention them more than 10 times and right this is 1999. So this is just before the tech bubble. Here you have IBM. Where do we have some others? AOL Intel? So this is the tech cluster but you have other clusters as well. Let me just pick one other. Here is the airline cluster American Airlines, Canadian Airlines, etc etc. So these are airlines that are Co mentioned, so this is another graph and it looks very similar as the one before of the Internet that we may want to process. Obviously if you would do this again is much larger, this is a very cool graph. This is a gene regulatory regulatory network 'cause this is what's happening in us all. More graphs this is the Facebook graph, right? Peoples in relationship as published a couple of years ago. An intern did it as Facebook. So you have people in the connections and you can see where Facebook is actually not and where Facebook is. More graphs and this graph here about which you've talked about. So those are all grow graphs, and they're growing and growing and growing, and we need to process them and we need to process them and do well need. We'd like to write, so that's the whole purpose of what we want to do. So, so how?

[145.0s - 174.0s]
And we do so really fast and what I'd like to do today is I'd like to talk about two thoughts as to how you can process really large graphs. One is actually thinking of processing them in the traditional sense, as this is a very old IBM mainframe at work in NASA in the traditional sense. So how can we load it? Run it, process it, and spit out some results. And the other thing which is on the other side, is how can we process these graphs differently? How can we take these graphs? And not actually take them in the old computer science principle of loading them. Processing them and spitting out results. But essentially we have a processor sitting there in the graph just flies by an whilst we consume the graph. We're actually trying to process them. This is kind of stream processing and I'll try to do is. I'll try to talk a little bit about the first part and then a little bit about the second part and mainly try to convey to you some ideas of how this could be done differently than it is traditionally being done. OK, let's look at the.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
First thing, processing graphs really in a really large manner.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
OK. What you've probably learned when you open your first semantic web book is that what we have is we have a number of triples, so we have this basic graph, and then we take this basic graph and we run some reasoning method on. It's the originally declared correct reasoning method and I do put correct in quotes is we take some DL reasoning and what we can get from the original triples is a set of asserted triples right? So we have some things. Sorry, the set of entailed triples, so we can infer some information from some basic information. Obviously, professor in a research group in this research group, there are some PhD students, so you can probably infer that those PhD students are being advised by me by the mere fact of these relationships. So that's the kind of reasoning that we're talking about. That was the kind of reasoning that the early Semantic Web proclaimed, this being the right thing. What we found out is that the stuff up here is much messier than we originally thought, or some people originally thought. So we need to think about some other reasoning methods. What's very involved is that you use some type of inductive or statistical reasoning to take these triples and computing induced triples, right? So this is like the song radio KCR Video killed the radio old Star in AI. Some people are regularly sing the song statistics killed the logic Gold Star. So that's kind of in this vein, right? We use statistics to take these triples, and we say if we know that PhD students who are in John's group are usually advised by Johnen PhD students that are in Marco's group are usually advised by Marco's and PhD students that are inclusive. Group are usually advised by host and probably PhD students that are in obvious group are usually advised by office. Alright, that's kind of a statistical. Type of reasoning about it. Now I want to tell you there is other ways of doing this and that's very important. There's many ways of doing this, so here is another one analogical reason you might take analogy. So what I gave you before is kind of an analogical reasoning type of way. But you draw analogies from one domain in your, apply them to another, use similarity or other things. Now it's even more important this as you go, and you process large amounts of data. You might find that you need a different types of reasoning method about your date, especially if you. If your goal is not to develop a hammer, but actually to analyze something in data, OK, so here is the science part than me, right? You're looking out there. You're seeing the linked data cloud and you want to think about some phenomenon in that link data cloud, for example, can I show that some areas in the world are underrepresented and correlate? That with God knows gross national product or something like that? I'm not sure that's true, but that might be a hypothesis that you may want to prove or disprove. It could be that none of these methods that are off the shelf work. And so you may want to use some other method. Let me just visualize this for you all.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
We actually asked our friends at Sense Networks accompany at Sandy Pentland setup. Visualize this for you. So this is San Francisco. And with all these dots are people in San Francisco, and they put the sensors on them and they looked where they went and how they moved around in town and what you can see just pretty much looks like an antique right at first. If you take this antique, what you find out is they go to places and they come from places there seems to be some places where they congregate, right? So let's look at these an tips and this is a graph with things moving along the edges, people and what you can now do is you can do group identification on that graph, right? You can you can identify subgroups. In different colors and so this is in some sense, a reasoning method. You're trying to find clauses in this data. And now if you map this back onto the map of San Francisco, what you'll see is that there are different areas of San Francisco where different groups exist next to each other. Groups of people that meet in places. But there some of them are geographically somewhat separate, like this blue group here, but some of them are geographically mixed. Right, that's a reasoning method that and now you can think about what that means as a social scientist, etc. Maybe you can correlate, you know. Income or some other thing with one of those called groups etc and do some. Do some analysis on this. OK, now how do you build those reasoning methods? Well, one way is you take your computer, you open it up. You start your IDE or VI or whatever your method of choice is. You fire up your favorite programming language and you do that. That is kind of if you trying to graduate in three to four years, which I hope you all trying to do. Maybe a good method to fail, because why not reuse? Why not stand on the shoulders of Giants or other people who have built lots of infrastructure to do so? So what we went about as we asked ourselves, how can we go about to build mechanisms or a piece of middleware that will help other people to build methods their own adaptations to reasoning on large graphs. How can we process large graphs in an efficient way?

[261.0s - 290.0s]
One thing we had is this observation that we just had just showed before. The graphs are usually nodes and edges, and in some sense what you can see is you can see them as things moving along these nodes and edges write messages of some sorts. So we went about and we started building a piece of middleware four years ago. Now that is called signal collect and the core idea of signal collectors. Do you have these nodes and you have edges and these nodes communicate with each others via the edges, OK? The beauty of this model. Let me just tell you up front is that on the surface at least this. Is a tunes perfectly to distribution right? You can just take parts of the graphs and put them on different machines. Obviously you'll have different latency's involved sending messages across the network then on the same machine, but let's put that aside for a moment and enjoy the beauty of the theory. And then I'll tell you some of The Dirty secrets of the model. OK, so.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Here is what we proposed you should take. Graphs and you should look at them as what they are nodes and edges and what you can do with them now is you can have signals that convey information between those nodes. And processing units at the nodes which collect those signals and do some math or do some computation on them. Let me try and give you.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
A very, very simple example to illustrate that let's take RDF's, just subclass inferencing, right so? A Penguin is a is a bird. Birds are flying animals. Oh oh, that was that one went wrong, but you get the idea, right? OK, so first of all, what we need is we need to define what's the graph we actually trying to process. So the graph we're going to take is vertis is that process that represent. The classes that we have so animals, birds, owls, Penguins. And the edges represent subclass relationships and what we want to know is what are Penguins and water owls? OK. Now you initialize each vertex with a state with it, which is its own class, right? So an animal is an animal, a bird is a bird. A Penguin is a Penguin, and owl isn't out. Now that's pretty easy. And now what we do.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
As we signal along the edges. We signal. That state. And that's all we do, and we do that a number of times. So let me show you how this works, so we signal the states to bird. So Bird now gets the signal. It animal from its one of its. How do you call this superclasses or parents or whatever? And now you need to do some computation. Here, the computation is very simple. In this case it is. Just take your state, Anna ran it, compute the union of your state and all your parents states, right? And you do that and now your new state is bird and animal. And now you do the same thing again. You send off your own state to your descendants.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
And you can go about doing this. Let me just give you one other simple algorithm which is. Single source shortest path. So what if you want to compute the shortest path to 1 edge? It's a very simple method, right? So you start off. And you, this is the note that you want to compute it too, so we're going to give this zero and everybody else in Infinity, because we don't know anything. So we're going to assume it's infinitely away from them, and what we're going to do is we're going to signal and everybody signals the others to state they are in. And then you update the state and the update is the minimum of your state, and whatever signals you get that are coming in, we update this. So these guys have one now because they got the signal one and these guys have Infinity now. OK. And you can do this again and again and again, and eventually you are going to. Converge onto the result and now everybody knows their distance to this path. So far so good. Now what you've seen here is a lot of messages being sent around that may not be necessary to be sent around, and you've also seen the fact that this was a synchronized right. It had a kind of a pace, right every time boom every Clock time message was sent around so there is something about synchronous system that developers love. They are easy to develop. We are having synchronicity in a lot of things right. We agreed to meet here at 9 for this talk. It synchronizes us all. It makes coordination among people much easier. However, synchronous algorithms are sometimes inefficient. There actually have been shown to lead to oscillation that may not converge as fast. They may have a lot of elements waiting, so just think about if you're. Have a group of people going from A to B if you want to arrive at B at the same time, you'll have to wait for the slowest so it will slow the faster people there. So that is the price of synchronization. If you synchronize, you have to wait. So how can this?

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Be done differently. You could do two things you can try and do it in an asynchronous manner, just sent the messages around as you have time. Um? And the second thing is, you may use some score to indicate whether you have anything to tell your neighbors or not. In this specific case, there is a very simple score. If my state is not equal, the old state and I have something to tell my neighbors, and if not I have nothing to tell my neighbors right? If my state is still the old state, I don't need to tell my neighbors about it. They already know I already informed them. So if you look at the algorithm this way, this is what happens. So you send out the messages. And now these guys update. And now messages get continued sending. Each of these will send out the message whenever it gets around to do so. So this one sends out the two it updates. Now this guy sends out the two etc and the updating rhythm happens. And we need to send out some threes over there because otherwise they don't know whether they converge. Now, even though it may have looked like I pressed click more often than I did before would actually happen. Is there were way less messages being sent around? And some of the messages happen in parallel, so this may lead to faster computation if you're doing it in a smart way. However, it puts you in front of two problems. One problem is. These things are a pain to debug because if you run them twice they may not have run in the same way. And two, you have to know when your algorithm converges. So you have to detect when you're done before you just said, well, I'm going to run single source shortest path. The number of iterations till I have the diameter of the graph and then it will it will have converged. In this way you're not going to do this, you actually have to decide when you're done. Now in this algorithm, there's a very simple way to know when you're done when nothing changes anymore. In other cases, you may not. OK. So we.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Wrote a piece of middleware that allows you to put algorithms together just in case of two functions. One is what is the computation that happens in the node. And the second one is, what are the kinds of messages that you'd like to send around? What is the signaling that you want to do? So this is page rank in two lines of code. In the in the running on our middleware. This is actual quote. This is not shorthand. You have a vertex that you're defining, and on the vertex you define your collect function. Sorry, this is Scala code, so this is almost Java, but it has some functional properties, so you're writing it a bit differently, but you will be able to read this. I'll try and walk you through it so the collect function does the following. It takes it, updates its own state with .15. Plus .85 those are. And constants that were taken from the original page rank paper. Essentially what you're doing is you're giving yourself a minimal rank plus a weighted rank for all the inputs, so that's the point. In five times .85 and what you're now doing is you're taking all the signals you multiplying this with your, taking all the signals. And here comes partly functional trick. Fold left on all those signals and you're applying the function plus. OK, that is just a functional way of writing. I'm adding up all the things I'm applying the function plus to all the things in this list of the signals and I'm multiplying this with this, so that's what page rank is doing. It's taking all all the incomes. It adds them together, multiplies them by Pate .85, and adds .152. It now comes to signal function. What do I signal? Actually what I signal is my own state. Times. The weight of the outgoing edges divided by the sum of all outgoing edges. That's it, page rank in two lines of code. Well, you need to load the graph. OK, let's look at the graph. Oh man, you can see that what's happening is if you have a good algorithm. You're actually going to spend most time in preparing the data. So this here is you define the graph. You then define a sparkle statement to load the thing from a triple store. So this is a sparkle statement you run the sparkle statement against some DB and now you iterate over each triple that you retrieve an you add you add the two ads and verticies. And then you add the edge between those two ends as an edge to the graph. And now you can run Pagerank. Now. The infrastructure will allow you to run this on your laptop or in a cluster seamlessly. The exact same algorithm, just to give you a kind of a feeling for how the scales we ran page rank on the AltaVista web graph. Yahoo distributes this as part of their sandbox. I think it has about 7 billion edges. It runs in 150 seconds to Rome Page rank on that, so that's the Alta Vista web graph. Is the web in 2001 I believe, so the web in 2001 year on page rank in 150 seconds. On the machine you can buy maybe not here in kolomoki around the corner, but in many cities around the corner it's a. It's a server with quite a bit of RAM, but you can run it on your laptop. I would say in two years maybe three OK. OK. Now.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So what I've tried to show you is this is a piece of infrastructure that's quite useful, but I've given you very, very simple reasoning examples, so I'll try to do now is I'll try to do two things. I'll try to 1st talk you through three more complex reasoning methods that you may want to use. They are all reasoning methods that you might be familiar with. One is called triple rush. It's a method to actually build the triple store on this infrastructure. One is I'll just show you how to do fraud detection on monetary. Streams and the third one is distributed constraint optimization, which is another thing that we often do. Think of it scheduling schedules at your University, when which professor and what students meet in what classroom. I'll try and do that. I'll try to point out some of the peculiarities of single collect and at the end try and summarize. So how does it differentiate itself from other infrastructures that are like this?

[493.0s - 522.0s]
OK, so let's look at Triple Rush triple Rush. Very early when we set, this needs to be said. Well, what we should be able to do is we should actually be able to show that we can build a triplestore with signal collect. And triple Rush is such a such an obtained. So let's take a very very simple triple database, right? It has two statements. It has Elvis inspired Dylan and Dylan inspired jobs, right? And we may want to run a query if X inspired Y&Y inspired Z who is XY and Z. It's a very simple sparkle query. You may want to run on this. So the question is how do you build a data structure and a graph that optimally supports this? So let me tell you first what we started off doing which went wrong. We started offloading the RDF graph and try to devise an algorithm on the RDF graph. And that went wrong. Let me try and explain why it turns out that it is not always a smart thing to store things as they are naturally represented, but sometimes the way you intend to process them. So here is what we did is we thought, how do we actually process these triples? And we came.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
With the following structure, what we realized is that the processing unit we're actually processing is a triple. So Elvis inspired Dylan. That is the thing we're processing. And in query processing in traditional data. Everybody took a database class at some point and learns how to. Yes, yes. Yes, yes yes. Right so right in traditional query processing you take your database items right you and then you deal with big sets and you have operators that deal with big sets. These technologies were developed in a time when we had arguably. Computers with very, very few processing units and lots of lots in their time. Sufficient amounts of memory. And then a disk. Now the situation today, somewhat different, right? We have lots, of course, if you buy a standard server you easily get 20 cores and 40 execution units. So we have more cores and in a distributed system we have a cluster with twelve such machines at. You know it was a 400 execution units. It would be stupid to write a program that doesn't leverage all of those four on execution units. So how do we do this differently and what we decided to do differently is we should actually. Think of running the query through the data rather than running the data through the query. OK, so running the query through the data is I have a piece of query and I try to match it with this piece of data. And it flows through some structure. Well, the optimal structure be. I want to flow through. So if I just have one triple pattern, I want that matches Elvis inspired Dylan. I want to do this as fast as possible. I want to arrive here as fast as possible so the data structure we came up with looks a bit like this. Building an index of notes. So here I have a note that in spite that represents something inspired Dylan. Here I have a note that has Elvis inspired something. And here I have a note. Elvis something Dylan. OK. Let's go a level higher here. I have something inspired. Something you have Elvis, something something, and you have something something Dillon. And obviously at the top I'll have something something, something. OK, now that is a data structure that allows me to put a query, right? Something inspired, something right? It was X? X inspired? Why and throw it at the node that's most relevant for it. This guy here and then routes the query as quickly as possible to where it needs to go. I'll show you this graphically. Now, as you saw before, we have Ed graph. This graph is not the RDF graph, it is a graph of triples and partially matched triples. Right or triple patterns if you want to say so and what we're going to do now is we're going to run the query through this graph in parallel, and in theory, if I have four and execution units, I can put each of these on an execution units on a processor and run this completely in parallel. Let me show this to you 1 by 1.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
So we need to make this a bit. Bigger in order to add the second piece of element we had remember we had also Dylan inspired jobs. So now we need to hook up Dylan inspired Jobs to this. Let's do this. Don't inspire jobs, divides up into Dylan something jobs Dylan inspired something and something inspired Dylan. And obviously we can now hook hook up something inspired Jobs or Dylan inspired something up to the inspired edge up there. Let's do that at some more edges etc. Now. If you look at this, you're going to ask, but why didn't you hook up? This guy and this guy and that guy to the something something, something edge and we realized that otherwise we're generating an insane amount of edges, so we decided to drop some edges strategically. According to our experience with running queries. OK, so how would the query run through it? So remember this is a system where in theory each of these boxes, which is a vertex could run on its own processor and the edges are communication paths.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
OK, So what we do when a query comes in, we generate a new vertex. And that vertex contains the query and we then send it to the topmost nodes that represents a pattern that we want to match and obviously. Some? X inspired? Why matches with something inspired something? It's very obvious right now. What do we do now? Now we have two possible paths to go with this query. We could either go in something inspired jobs or something inspired Dylan. While the traditional way would be to now have a collection of things and process the collection of things. Not so in triple Rush, and that's why it's called Rush. You rush to query through triples. We just duplicate the query and send it down both paths. OK, so let's go down one path. We now get to something inspired Dylan. Now we can bind and go all the way down to Elvis inspired Dylan and now what we can do since we know it's Elvis inspired Dylan, we can take this. Part of the query and bind it so Elvis inspired Dylan, which means Dylan inspired something. And now what do we do now? We have the second triple pattern, and So what we're looking for is a note that has Dylan inspired something, and sure enough, up here it is. So we send it up there. And now this guy sends it down. And now we have dual inspired jobs. So we combined this thing and now this thing is a valid answer. And now we can send the valid answer back to the create vertex in parallel. What will happen is we'll explore the second query path. Which is. Access powered, why write something inspired jobs and will send this even further down? Dylan inspire jobs. We mind it. So Dylan inspired jobs. Jobs inspired Z. So now what we need to find is a vertex which has jobs inspired something, and if you look at our very small database jobs inspired many people, but our database doesn't contain such a statement. We will not find a way place to match it, so no vertex supports the statement, so we have to abort. And send things back to the query vertex and we answered the query just to show you this. How this would run. This is how it would look like. Let's do this again and now in parallel without ABI talking through it and things would run in parallel and things would completely asynchronously run through the system. No need for synchronization, no need to wait for one. Path to evaluate before I look at the next triple pattern. OK, now let me point out some differences. Now we're not the only ones who thought about graph based middleware. Obviously Google almost in parallel to us publish something called Pregel. Pregel takes the collect function at the signal function and puts it in one compute function. So you can't differentiate between this. That's one thing Google has and the second thing is it's synchronous. Right in the very MapReduce way it's synchronized, so it's bulk synchronous processing. We can with our system you can choose to go synchronous or asynchronous. And the third thing Google has, Google only has one vertex type. In our system you can have as many vertex type as you wanted and what you saw here is actually different vertex type. You saw a query vertex. You saw. A vertex type of this kind of this kind of that kinds. Each of them is different code associated with it. And last but not least, we can change the graph as it is, it's running. Google cannot do this. There are a number of other systems that are trying to do this jiraffe. Another's paragraph and I'll show you. No, I'm actually not going to show you in this talk power graph or graph lab or how it's called, which can also one vertex type usually synchronized and cannot change the graph at runtime. We think those are crucial features.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
OK, now just to kind of show you that were in there with the big one. So this is a system that we developed two PhD students over a year just to show you. So this is our triple Rush figures and these are some competing just appearing large distributed graph stores. One is called Trinity RDF, so this is something that comes out of Microsoft Research built on Trinity, which is a huge distributed graph architecture. Um? And this is Triad, which is something that comes out of MPI in Germany, which has just been published just now. And what you see here. So this is albm with 21 million triples. This is running on one machine. This is not a big database, but what you can see here is the wrong times for these queries and you can see that for most queries. So 21. 2 and 81420 seven 97. We're way faster than any of the other systems, and again, this is just a system we built to show that the middleware is functional. Now, if you distribute this so now we take 1.3 billion triples. Things look slightly different. So this is 3000 milliseconds or three seconds, but some queries are very quick. And what you can see is here in some queries. Actually some other people beat us nonetheless for just having taken a piece of middleware invested some time, implemented a triplestore. We think this is a fairly good performance and most of the performance comes out of leveraging the middleware. OK. So what were the sorry those are? Those are the ALB queries. I could also show you data for BS PM or some of the other grades. So those are the Elbe queries number 234. Some of them don't return answers. Right, so I don't remember which one one of these doesn't return an answer, so I do very quick at realizing there is no answer and the others are not. They need to process, you know you run the query optimizer only very late. You realize there's no answer and we just realized very, very early. There is no answer. Stop this now. Now obviously there is a trade off if you have large large answer sets were streaming a large large amount of things through this graph. And we're going to be slower. There is no question about this. If you have a small answer set, however, we are going to be almost sure faster because we're going to find out usually very early and have much less streams. Also, and you don't see this, we we get to the first answer very, very quickly, whereas other systems synchronize on each of the triple patterns. We don't. We just run and things just rush through the system and eventually an answer folds out. OK, you can download this today. Yeah, I'm wondering about the size of the index because it depends on where you're constructing cheaper buttons and if I could somehow.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
Correctly so this final size is not twice or three times the size of the original data. So this is a very fair and valid criticism. Now any any type of indexing you're going to do is going to blow up your data in some way, right? So if you take a DD standard triplestores right? If you do what the people well the people you know. The RDF 3X approaches. You're actually going to look and generate AB tree on all possible joints, so I don't know what do they. 10s or 10s of the trees that they're going. You're going to do duplicate data and become bigger unless you use compression than the original data. We at some point proposed Texas store, which in the worst case has a five times footprint of the original data, but you in many cases are prepared to pay this as long as it's a linear growth and it's not an exponential growth because you're going to be so much faster. Any of these methods that we saw on the slide. Are actually going to do something.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Indexing and therefore blow up the data size, but maybe use compression in our case. I don't think you're going to do much more than double things, 'cause we're actually not storing joins. Yeah, and the the upper levels are more general than the lower level, so you will have less of them. There's a doubling in the first super layer because you actually are just looking right and then there is less. It's just the number of entities in the upper right, so it's less than three times this. No question you're going to pay. But you're going to be faster, and this is a time space tradeoff. That's what all the oil industry indexing does, OK? Let me move on. Otherwise, John is going to be on.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Happy because I don't finish on time. OK, so that was the most intensive example and I think what it should illustrate to you is not go off and do triple Rush, but actually using the right kind of hammer, the piece of middleware that's useful for you could be very useful. OK, second algorithm very quickly, unless this guy doesn't want to react to me. OK.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
So let's go into fraud detection.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
A couple of years ago I was contacted by a Swiss financial institution that wants to remain unnamed to look into fraud. Monetary fraud turns out there were some of it happening. Think money laundering for example, or other frauds. And so the question is, how can you detect this? This is a very interesting and complex problem, because you're actually evaluating a graph that is changing all the time, right? The graph is made up of transactions. Let me just show you how fraud works. Don't try this at home, it will get you arrested. Different people kinds of people involved in different kinds of account. You take money and you usually split it up into small pieces. And you distribute it and via various channels you funnel it back to some other channels and then you transfer it to the person who wants to get it. And what you have is you have different types of people in these networks. You have the originating party which holds all the money and tries to transfer it. You have forwarders that just take money and forward it. You have aggregators or splitters who take money and then send it out in many pieces or people who get it back OK in many pieces. Wait for lots of it to come together and then forward it. And now you can build as complex patterns as you want. Now what you really want sorry here is the description of those people. What you really want is you want to detect this as it's ongoing. Most current detection systems use elements on these single points, and on these single points you have some oh, this guy has a lot of deposits just on the 10,000 dollars. $10,000 is the limit that when you go cash to the bank and deposited, it actually needs to prove where is the cash coming from. So you just deposit. Just a little bit less and that used to be a way to launder money. Trust me, it won't work anymore. You'll get very quickly people knocking on your door if you do that, unless you want to cash business. If you run a restaurant, you wanna cash business. You have a lot of cash, so actually a lot of incoming cash is something normal. OK, let's not get into money laundering. Money laundering 101 is another summer school that John Rums in a secret location.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
OK. So. You want to detect these kinds of patterns, and we had a master student think of how could we do this online with single collect and he came up with a graph that does asynchronous processing and it's not one graph, it's actually three different detection algorithms build on top of each other and what he does is he looks at the transaction as they fly by and tries to raise the flag when he has finished up a pattern. And here is 1. So first what you want to do is you want to find the building blocks so to say the Lego pieces which is. Transactions coming in and flowing out and saying this is an interesting pattern that I can use to build up a big fraud pattern. So you want to find the splitters, the aggregators, etc. So how do you do that? Well, what you're doing is you're realizing that all of these people have the habit that the inflows in the account and the outflows in the account are roughly the same over a certain period of time. Now that's true for most of us. If the certain period of time is very long, right? You have your income coming in at the beginning of the month, and then you, well, those of us who don't save at the end of the month we're back to zero. And depending where at the end of the month is before the next piece of Sally, comes in, we go and get invited by all our friends. He can't, you pay me a beer. Anne, and if not all our friends come to us and say hey can you pay me a beer and that's wait, equalized? So if the period is very long, that is no big deal. But it turns out that in certain periods that is indicative so you will have a lot of false positives, right? Not all people have the same amount flowing in is flowing out, or fraudsters. Otherwise we could all turn ourselves in right now. So what you do is you run something called a subset sum matching algorithm. So you're trying to find subsets of incoming streams and subset of outgoing streams. That artists ain't. Note this is an NP complete algorithm. Bummer, nonetheless, that's what he did, and so for each account in this system he does that and now he has the building blocks. And you could easily see how you could do this in signal collect right? So every account is a note and all the transaction that involved that account. It will take that in and it will keep a certain window of transactions and it will just run subset, sum match of seeing which of the incomings are equal to the outgoings. Step #2 you now have these building blocks and now like in Lego, right? This is an outgoing transaction. This is an incoming transaction. You're trying to build larger pieces of graphs. So on top of this bottom layer that tries subset sum match, he has a second layer. Which of the graphs he can construct. Right, only neighboring people only if I transfer money to Jaune can he and I be involved in a common case directly? We're not just to make this clear to the people out in video lecture lands. And Switzerland just signed the agreement with the UK, so he's doubly safe. You know, no problems there. So now we have a lot of graphs that seem to have certain properties, namely that they could be potential money, stream facilities, and last but not least, he takes these graph and filters out false positives based on certain rules. What Daniel did is the master student of this. So this is a six month Masters thesis. He took the Edgemont report, which is reports that is published was published couple of years ago by financial investigative units, IE the internal fraud institutions of different different countries. And took their 100 fraud cases, described it and try to model them each with that. And he ran the valuations of these fraud patterns on Bitcoin data. The only freely available financial transactions you get. You know if I would knock on my neighboring Swiss bank and say, could you please give me all your transactions? They would probably declare declare me insane and say we were trying not to give him to the US government. Why should we give him to you, right? So we took Bitcoin data and just to show you what's happening here.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
This runs on one server, 64 gigs, 24 cores. So this is what he can do, so the matching complexity is how many incoming and how many outgoing edges do you think can be one case. Right, do you aggregate more than 12 incoming edges? Now obviously if you have 8. You can process more, so this is measuring throughput. If you have 8 matching complexity of eight. He can process at 2 million transaction minute. 2 million transactions a minute is actually quite a lot. On a normal server and remember, this can be perfectly paralyzed. You just take some accounts, put them on one block and other accounts, put them on another computer. If we go up to higher matching complexities off to half a million transactions, he can process in a minute. This is six months worth of master thesis work that he was a very, very good master student. Let me say that, but you can. This is a very complex reasoning method to write. There's temporal reasoning involved, their structural reasoning involved, and he built all of this in six months and could show proof of concept that this works and download Bitcoin data and preprocess it and etc etc etc. OK.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Last thing, even more hand WAVY.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Distributed constrained optimization. Do you guys probably need a refresher constrained optimization constraint? Optimization is the following. You have a number of variables. And now you have constraints on those variables. Oh sorry, each of the variables has valid assignments. So for example X can be added zero, one or two. Why can be 01 Z can be one or two Q can be 0, one or two. And what you have now is you can. Have edges between those two things. For example, you say all those variables need to have unequal values. Now constraint. Satisfaction is you. Now try and find an assignment to these variables that is actually upholding all these constraints. Constrained optimization is you're trying to find the one that is best at doing this, or will invalidate least constraints. Usually it's impossible to find the best assignment. University of Zurich is the University with about 27,000 local students. We have 600 professors and about 3 1/2 thousand instructors. And I don't know how many classrooms. If you need to find a a up a satisfied schedule that will allow each student to visit all the classes she or he wants to visit. And professors not to be at two places at the same time and not having to build Atripla fire, quadruple ified the number of lecture rooms we have. You will not find a valid schedule. It's just impossible because there are conflicts so you will try and do constraint optimization. OK. (by the way, very interesting little story. You may have all heard of this thing called the AI nuclear winter, so I had these huge promises we're going to build intelligent systems, you audio and you know expert systems conferences were about as big as as you know they took over Las Vegas just to talk about expert systems like game conferences these days. And obviously many of these promises didn't pan out, or at least not as quickly. We catching up to many of them today. But we didn't like in the 90s, so it all collapsed. Nonetheless. DARPA told the AI community in the end of the 90s that all the money they have ever invested in AI. Ever. Was less than what they saved during Desert Storm, which was the original, you know, war in Iraq in 91. What they saved in Desert Storm due to AI scheduling and constraint optimization algorithms. You know what some AI people said? That was the sad part. Well, that's not AI. It's not not the thing to tell her Funding Agency. That's not what I do. Anyways. You can see this saves billions right? Scheduling of airplanes. You all came on planes, why?

[899.0s - 928.0s]
They depart on these silly times. OK, so this is what you see. Here is a very simple standard constrained optimization problem. You see this grid here. Each of these dots here is a variable. And you're trying to color it in a color that's not equal to its neighbors. And what I'll show you now is a constraint optimization algorithm running with 10,000,000 vertices and variables on their laptop. And this is this is slowed down to your benefit, and what you can see is that very quickly big areas have satisfied. And what you're doing is you're only having movement at the edges. By the way, this is just the upper left corner of this. All right, there is movement here. There is movement here. There is very little movement here. You could stop. Ella Vermin, one of my PhD students has looked at this problem and has devised a framework which do to signal collection process much larger distributed constraint optimization's that have been possible. So what you're doing is you're putting the logic of each of these things, and it's a game theory game. You know what is my optimal color given the colors. I know of my neighbors. Now at the beginning, usually what you do is you prepare to move a lot. But in order to avoid oscillation you have some decay built in and oftentimes you don't optimize things. Anyway, I lost very simple algorithm. Huge implications because it's actually a very important piece of reasoning. OK, I'm done with.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
This. This is not our statement. There's a US healthcare company that, for some reasons, tries to remain anonymous or wants to remain anonymous. What I tried to tell you is. Think very carefully what problem you're using. If you're in the nail business, you're trying to solve a specific problem. Don't necessarily think about developing your own hammer. Other people may have Hammers that are good for you. You're in the nail business. You might be a social scientist even you sit here and you're a computer science in the Computer science Department. One of my PhD students was really interested in cultural differences of how people use computers. She devised a system that automatically adapts to the cultural background of the user, but she was a nail person. She was interested in the cultural differences. She didn't invent new ontological reasoning and statistical reasoning method. She nailed the problem of automatically adaptive user interfaces. The cultural background of people. So decide what business you're in and do science in that business. Don't try to do both at the same time. That's one variable, too much moving you don't you? You have some time out if you decide to stay in the business of being an academic, you'll have more than enough time to look at the other problem later when your postdoc, when your professor or retired professor, that's when you get to do really research again because you don't have to attend committee meetings, OK?

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Anyways, let me just throw one other idea at you which is processing graphs as they streambuf.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
Now.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
The interesting thing is what is the main source of income? It's advertising income, right? And the income is being distributed based on so-called household panels. Those people who have set up boxes in their homes and that looks at what you're watching, right? Now this number here 5100 is the number of set top boxes in the UK. How many inhabitants in the UK? 60 million people in the UK, let's say half as many households. 5100 set top boxes. OK, you can see this sampling process is. An approximation to say the least. I mean, they don't randomly distribute this, they do stratified sampling. They choose, you know people based on socioeconomic etc. In Germany just to give you another point, it's 5000 of these, an up until very recently not a single. Turkish descendant household having such a set top box right. You're losing a big part, so for the first three big channels, you're getting accurate measurements. You know how many people are watching it. The long tail, the numbers are the least to say dubious. OK.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
So we had a new project called Vista TV that was trying to make these watchers that are anonymous.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
People we know who they are and essentially track many more people of how they're watching it now. This is just the background thinking, so we took 3 million viewers. That's 300 switching events per second.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
We took 300 channels. Turn it into triples you switching events. We took 250 TV channels at 25 frames per second. We had an IPTV provider as a partner and the BBC who provided those channels.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
And we turn this into. Triple. And those triples were streaming right as things were coming by. Those triples were just thrown at us, and last but not least, we took EPG data. Its electronic program guide data for seven days and enhance it with linked open data and all.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
So turned it, you guessed it, into triples. And those triple streams we had to process in some way. So what we did is we build a triple stream processing engine. That reason on things as they come by. It's very similar to the fraud detection thing you sell before and we could do, you know, live statistics on what people switch from one channel to another. We could do life recommendations in this. This is a prototype built by the BBC which is what would you know. Couch surfing, channel surfing B in the world where you have 250 channels? You're not just going to click through 250 channels, you're going to get carpal syndrome in your thumb. And last but not least, publish some open data. So how do we?

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Do this, it was very quickly clear to us we're not going to do this with the traditional triplestore approach where we run queries where we insert all the data into a triple store. We run the queries in what's essentially happening is the Triple Store takes the query, tries to match it against the pattern. We saw that before, and spits out the answer. That's not going to scale because of the number of.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
It's also not the kind of work you do. You actually have very very queries in the query state constant. How many people are watching BBC One at the moment that's a constant query that you want to have continuously analyzed.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
So we turn to this thing that you could call stream processing or flow processing or semantic flow.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Processing you have a fixed quick loops, a fixed query. Sorry, that went a bit too fast. You have a fixed query and the triples flow by and. Whenever one of a match is part of your query, you put it in a pot. That's essentially what we did, right? And what you do is you now have a part of things that you want to keep, and the rest you can throw away. And then you just do the pattern matching output. This is what Daniel did right now. Typically what happens is this part may grow larger than what you can absorb, so there is different things that people do long as they take a time window and then say anything that's out of that time window will throw away. Well.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Let me give you some real world data, so this is some real world project data and what you can see is that viewership over that they highly fluctuates. Most people don't watch TV between zero and five o'clock midnight right in the middle of the night. Most people watch TV in the evening and if you have a World Cup final, these things will go much much higher right? So if high fluctuations if you have a fixed cache size that you can process, your cash will overflow, especially when you have these. High peaks, so having a time window is not good enough. You need to.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Decide how you can deal with this, and one way to conceptualize is, triples are flying by each of them has a timestamp, and you want to process this timestamp in your system is on the stress when there are too many of these triples coming in at any given point in time.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
OK. So. The timestamp problem is the time window we said is no good because you may eventually. If you have this, you will fill your heap of cache where you want to store things, and eventually many many triples are arriving in a very, very short time frame, right? the World Cup final just starts, everybody turns on their TV and you're stressed out. You can process this, so that's no good.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Another thing people do is something called load shedding, so as the triples come by, you use some techniques to decide which triples to keep or not. Then you throw them away before processing.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
That's it. We looked at something called eviction. Which is, as a triple comes in. We try to decide what to do with it and what we do is we look at what we've cashed and this triple and we decide which of these things is the most useful to keep. OK. So we compare this with the ones down here and then we decide which ones to keep and what to throw away. So we use the context of what's already in the cache together with the query to make this decision. OK.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
So you remove cache data. Now if you remove data, you may not get 100% recall right? You throwing away data. So what pic?

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Typically do is they use least recently used. Now, if you have your son.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
The match going on for a two way join that will not be very good because you have you're going to throw in if there is a lot of switching happening on other channels you're going to throw.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
Your soccer game out of your cash. Even though you want to keep it. OK, let's move on. So that's why you should not use least recently used.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
So we devised another method that is similar to LRU but actually keeps a score as to how often did you use this in the past? So here is a POS.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Will join. So we increase the counter.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Another possible joint. So now we don't find a slot. So what we now do is we just go through the list of things and we try to find out which has the lowest number of matches.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
The past. And we.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Find 1 to match it. So essentially what we do. Is we lower the number and so the one that has been both least recently used as well as least often used, gets evicted? So the method is essential.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
He tries to count away recency.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
With. With you know how often is it being used with. Frequency of usage and what you can see if you have your cache size and here your cache size is 100% and here it's 1% of the data that this method performs better than random or 505 is essentially time Windows least recently used. Or the last one is our method that essentially ways the tool off against each other. Let me close things here. If I get to do this. I love it when the Max starts starts giving me beach balls.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
It's very. There we go. OK, I started off with saying we should think about Lightspeed right? We need to think about sorry lightspeed warp speed processing more than lightspeed processing and I don't think we're there yet. Maybe we'll have to wait for quantum computers to do so, but I showed you two vastly different approaches to approximate this and one thing I showed was this whole notion of. Of processing, sorry I've got beachballs again here. We go of processing things in appropriate middleware and another thing I showed you is taking streams. In any case what you'll need to do is you'll need to have your reasoning method implemented in it and what I showed you is 2 examples to do so. I'm beach balling again. Computer is too hot. Smart is not good for it. Here we go, single collect in one side and on the other side using streams. And that was just one little project that I showed you how to do this. Obviously I didn't do this by myself all. Each polling again.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
Let's try the mouse at this point. Oh, all mistakes are mine. Everything that's correct is dare stories of the people who worked on this. They did an excellent job and at this I'm dumb as promised and pardon me for the delay. Thank you very much.
