He's talking about end user semantic web applications and let me highlight that I think people like David are very important for us as a bridge between different communities. In terms of the schema size, so remember working with about 1019 hundred exhibits. And we've also got just a standalone document called Dido. Well, it doesn't use really any semantic web technology. It can read RDF, but nobody does. So what this says we need is a way for users to express what they want to have happen and when in terms of predicates that relate to the States and properties of people and places and things that relate to me in my world. The way we're going to do it is by creating what's called a controlled natural language interface, right? So the idea of controlled natural language we drew from previous work in the semantic web community. So here's somebody creating this rule to tell to have themselves be reminded when they're at home, and it's a certain day to take out the trash and what's going on is is they're creating this rule step by step. We have lots of intelligent agents on the web. People are really heavy users of spreadsheets as ad hoc databases, and So what can we do with spreadsheets in order to make them work better as ad hoc databases? So here's how it looks at startup. Next, new concept as I start creating more worksheets. And so now I have a type which is a reference to an item in a different spreadsheet. Now the 4th important concept is that of course relationships are bidirectional, right? You could also sort of configure for highly specialized applications, so this is a little desktop that we that the end user could create for writing a research paper on brain studies, and so it brings together a set of collaborators who you might want to send email to a set of related authors on papers. Whatever schema the user wants that schema can be accomplished inside of this system, so I will argue that this is a semantic web application despite the absence of any semantic web technology. I want to publish my volunteer roster on the web. Remember the good old days of the web when everybody was sort of? So our goal has been to give regular people tools that let them offer structured data and visualizations by themselves so that they can communicate just like the professional websites do. It's just HTML where you kind of fill in the blanks with the values of a particular item.