So we know that in practice applying machine learning is often difficult because we have algorithms and tool boxes for solving problems that are like the standard machine learning problems like classification, and most often we have applications that require more complex types of problems such as cost sensitive classification, hierarchical classification, structure classification, then going on to even more complex problems like machine translation, and we'd like to scale up these. So the theorem says that for any importance weighted distribution D and any classifier age. So now how do we change the distribution of examples? Which is the approach that we call resampling with replacement, which would be equivalent to like a roulette wheel algorithm where you have a roulette wheel with the size here. A possible approach would be to do re sampling without replacement, which is sampling M examples from a set of size M using the same roulette wheel approach. Is the rejection sampling approach. Go through all the examples and decide whether or not to keep the example with probability proportional to. You can think about going through the training set and deciding to a keeper, not this example in the way you decide is flip a coin Ann, and compare with bias C / C, where C hat is. Would be like the maximum and upper bound value on on C, so you'd have to have an upper bound value on the possible values on your weights so that you can normalize. So now you're going to have. And when we want to classify an example, we do a majority voting, so we get 10 to 10 different hypothesis on an example X and we make them vote. Using binary classification we have good results. Strong learnability, so it's also case where reductions have worked well in practice. We can, so as I said from the beginning, we can you reuse highly optimized learning algorithms which have been developed to solve the binary classification problem. For this is getting and different new algorithms for solving a problem from and different base algorithms that we have. One very important aspect is this one, that I think is this theoretical aspect because you can transfer performance guarantees from one problem to another. And then the fourth point here is that reductions compose, so. What this means is that you can get as we'll see later examples that John and Eileen are going to talk about. So we can start like building bigger and bigger blocks from small blocks, so this comparable composing effect is very interesting. So this is tutorial is going to be about the second approach. We can, by predicting other quantiles, we can describe different segments of the conditional distribution, so we don't have to just predict the mean or the median. There have been other methods for solving the quantile regression problem. The other approach is the. Oh I have so I have X is the is G function right? This is the only difference. So what here is just a formal definition of the quantile regression problem. So if you have a problem where you have example values of bigger an unrestricted, then you have to normalize them to be in the 01 interval so. Threshold, whereas we could also learn one classifier with an extra feature T, But this would be relying on the classifier to do this. The regret in estimating the medium. Last that we get. Then we have C less than one, which means that the regret in estimating the medium is less than the binary breath. So today we're going to focus as our core problem as the one that we know how to solve is going to be binary classification. So expecting that we have good algorithms for solving this problem. What we are. We're leaving that open, so depending on the matter, they're going to use X could be different, so here we don't. To begin with, we are requiring this as the minimum that we are requiring that the algorithm will do will do this if the algorithm does this, then we can guarantee other things that we're going to show later. So this is our core problem that we are assuming that we know how to solve. The linear quantile regression and the kernel quantile regression, the Y values their normalized quantile loss. The first one basically can encode any loss function defined on individual examples with discrete output spaces that can potentially be very large. We have some distribution D overacts cross Y where Y is a key label space and we want to find a classifier where mapping from acts the way that minimizes the probability that when we draw an example from D, this classifier disagrees with the label. Where for class Y1 per class for a class I you're trying to predict is the label I or not distinguishing this class from all the other classes? We can prove about this reduction for all multiclass distributions D and all binary classifiers F. The induced multiclass loss. You can reduce the importance weighted classification that Bianca talked about and then use the costing method to reduce the binary classification and you will get a factor of two improvement just by making this observation and theory and a consistent improvement in practice. You can derive a better reduction. Use an error correcting output codes. So you have K columns and then you have some number of rows. Each row defines a subset. You believe all the classifiers that you've learned and you decode to the vector that's closest in the Hamming distance. For all binary classifiers, EOC, the multiclass laws of this reduction is bounded by two M, where M is the number of rows epsilon which is the average binary mistake over D, where D is the minimum distance between between any pair of columns in the matrix and the analysis is very simple, you just observe that you need at least D over to binary mistakes in order to induce the multiclass mistake. For epsilon, so the multiclass loss is bounded by four times the average binary loss. There is no dependence on key. Also, the original problem can be noisy, which means that they induce problem will most likely be also noisy, which also means that the statements are not very useful. So regret is something that can be defined for any loss function, and it's just the difference between the loss suffered by the classifier on that problem. So you subtract off the inherent noise that's in the problem, and you want to bound this avoidable loss. That's due to suboptimal prediction. If we have an optimal classifier for the induced problem, it seems natural to require that the reduction recovers the optimal solution to the original problem. There is a very simple example that shows that one against all anti cocs are inconsistent in the sense that given an optimal classifier, these reductions do not give you an optimal multiclass classifier. So instead of predicting is label I or not, you're trying to predict what's the probability of label I versus all the other classes. Here Are's an average squared loss regret, but also there is this probe introduction from squared loss regression to binary classification that comes with this guarantee that squared error regret is bounded by classification regret. There is a probabilistic version office USC. Is there a consistent reduction that does not have the square dependence? Is there a consistent reduction that is sufficient that requires just lock key complexity to train and test on a single multiclass example, which would match an information theoretic lower bound because he needs at least locato write down, the answer can be buff beach shiftable reduction that performs only pairwise comparisons between the classes. So each normally predicts the bust of a pair of winners from the previous round. So what we want from from a reduction? So I think most people when they think about even this name reduction sounds like simplistic that we want to get a difficult problem and make it be solve it with a simple thing. Then you train this classifier on acts, right conditioned on this classifier, getting the label correctly. It's important to form the right training sets. I regret ratio is bounded by central to the three dots by lock key. And then bubble at some robustness and remove this dependence on key completely. Of course, sensitive multiclass classification you have where you have a distribution D / X cross vectors of length ski where where this vector specifies the cost of each choice. Let Y be left if the cost of a is less than the cost of B is at most the cost of peace, so a would be the winner. So we will reduce the importance weighted classification. An axe every edge in the tree is associated with some label. And then we can compose this reduction with cost and to remove the weights to the sample. For all cost sensitive problems. An classifier said the nodes the result in cost sensitive regret is bounded by the average binary regret over the nodes times the expected sum of weights over the nodes. So what does it imply in the multiclass keys in the multiclass keys there is only one weight per level, that is 1. All the other weights is 0, so the sum of weights is essentially bounded by the depth. So in the multi class keys there is no need to reduce the constant. Can we make it more robust? Attempt would be to just run multiple. I should make this observation that the filter filter tree is essentially a single elimination tournament on the labels. You're you're increasing the dots. So no player. Rounds then you will have lock key winners, which will play in the weighted single elimination tournament. And second, they should be modular in the sense that we want to be able to plug any. The regret ratio is 5.5. It was a lock key computation, for example, both training and test time. There's also some conditional distribution over the labels and you want to sort. Right there are two general approaches to the ranking problem. You can learn a scoring function on the entire universe of objects that Maps a given object to a real value, and then given a subset you validate all the elements in that subset using a fan rank according to the values of F. And they'll turn that if approaches to learn the classifier to predict given two objects, whether one should be ordered before the 2nd and then sort. So you need some algorithm that resolves the cycles that you may have in age. There may not be a good. Is find a classifier that minimizes, instead of minimizing just the error, which would be the difference between? So this is a common scenario that they set up years many times in boosting for instance, but also it also is is a case where one class is rare and has a bigger cost than the other class. So we transform D. The regional distribution into ADI Prime, which is a distribution that. Search that if age does well on the D prime distribution in terms of 01 loss, our age is going to be do well on the regional distribution with the L loss, which is the loss in the problem that we care about.