[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank You Beautiful only just met so pleasure and in order for me to speak today in front of social norms and also a challenge speaking glass after so many distinguished speakers. So I'm trying to adapt to present a slightly different yet complementary view on the.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Q Which is a vision from the sun.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Yeah, consumption site and associated services. We are we have. We haven't delved into it when you era, which is driven by application services and contact. Legacy applications first. Vision radio and television services used to shape the media consumption environment for decades. They are not to disappear, but it's clear that in their current form they are easier that she's a radical way to state things, or at least we have to evolve very, very, very critically. Second division is about search engines. As was pointed out this morning and things easy to very important evolution using search engines is now very common. In order to access to anything, including entertainment experience. Interactivity, interactivity, emotions are also something that I'm going to come back home. Personalization is another trend. As well as also questions about better security, better respect of privacy, which both on the content security point of view and on the privacy of the users are becoming have been noted already. 2 very key areas, ease of commercial transactions is fundamental. Micro transactions are becoming. Critical belt of this evolution and of course social networking sharing as has been said already, quite quite often today new business models. It's of course one of the newest things which has appeared in the media consumption space is place occupied by UGC. So user generated services or user generated content. Which is 1 particular form of it, which is going to be more and more important for the future of the industry and future of the experience.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So well, what does all that drivers? We believe that it's important enough to have the potential to shape or reshape. But we believe that because of the very high level of batteries which is required and consumed by this new applications and will go deeper into that. We believe that this will be the most important driving force which will force the infrastructure to adapt to it and to sell this new this new services behind that there is the will of consumers of users which. Are going to demand and to use. Content delivery services or content sharing services or content. Co production services. With an increased level of flexibility, time and space. And Domino's technology will be, of course, the enabler. OK, but it's something which will remain hidden, so nobody cares about technology. Today. Nobody wants to care about technology, and you're on the user appointment and the user site on the consumer point of view. And the same thing is going to happen about services. Nobody is going to care about. What is the service which is bringing the real sync to the to the user? Is it mobile? Is it fixed? Is it fixed mobile convergence? Who cares? How important is it on the user's point of view? Most important thing is to have access to the kind of service and media and experience which is.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Which is desired. So let's talk about this content. What are we speaking about? Today we are speaking about we're speaking about music. Then now we are really speaking about video. Video is still conventional video which is lower medium definition. I speaking for Internet consumption mainly and its existing startup form. This is going to evolve. It is going to evolve good first high definition TV is going to set the norm. I don't believe that. After having experienced the quality of HDTV. By at home or my friends or whatever people will long satisfy themselves with the level of quality which is the one that you can find on the Internet from the Internet today, which is excuse me crap, it's really crap. It's blurry. It's it's really not good. People do satisfy themselves with that today because it's you because the content is you because it's not something that you can find on traditional channels on channel traditional media. Therefore you can spend an entire evening. I did watching YouTube or Dailymotion watching crap clips but they are fun. There are news they are telling you something and you experience and you go for it. Now this is not going to last forever. Tomorrow morning you will want the same. Videos but please with little bit more quality so HD will be the rational normal. Expectation. Tomorrow morning, and it's not going to stop there because the referrals is always moving. It's a moving target, so next target is similar. Serialize moving from certified millimeter 2 digital cinema 2K and 2K is not enough to 4K. So 4000 pixels provide 4K cinema is going to impact. Homes there is absolutely no reason for this evolution to stop at age 80. I personally consider agility as an interim. Stage in video and picture quality. It is not that much better than standups television really. Not that much. The real target is the one which equals which equals the cinema experience the theater experience and this is 4K. So you can make some calculations to realize what easy. Increase in batteries, which that supposes. And that's without driving. Diving into details. That's one view of the matter. You have puzzle dimensions, which may be equally or more important, like high dynamic range, which is ability to render. Contrast, which are closer to real life contrast. You are able to appreciate contrast ratio. Between dark and light in a real life environment, which is way higher, several orders of magnitude higher than what you can experience in front of a screen today, tomorrow morning. This can change. You just have to add. 2468 bits to the definition of the pictures, which is going to grow linearly. Of course the requirement for batteries. Samsung Chrome couldn't give it, so the kernel space which is used today in video is very cool. But you realize that until she has the opportunity to look at something which is really better and the difference is quite stiff. And of course there was could be sweetie multiview, which is one of the. Exemplifies what's going to happen in terms of evolution and the content itself. So all that is just for the image. Now let's look to interactivity games. So as we all experience rates towards realism, so hyper realism in games is never ending story. It's powered by the fantastic evolution of GPU's graphic processing units. And of course, the batteries required laser level of indirection and so the luxury of details which are going with it is just as a starting point. Virtual worlds obviously contact virtualization. What we have in mind, this content utilization is for example you may choose and you will choose or you or your neighbor will choose to teleport person. If I an avatar in Asian Games or any kind of human to human need direction in the future. World by using your. It's a modified, improved real image. Why would you like to have a bit of personalization your your real face, maybe with less 10 years, less for example. On the on, the real will be up shortly universe, so all that is going to. You're so real worlds virtual worlds are going to mix are going to plant and technologies behind that are literally at play as we speak and it's just a matter of time and but that much for all that to converge versus something which we.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Did you look sexy? Which is going to be really appealing for probable. So how to get there? I believe the fundamental certain fundamental network technologies are there already. So much to do in advance to make it happen, as some people say, just throw bandwidth, speed propagative. It's maybe not rocket science as an approach to the problem, but at least this approach works. The real point, since the real things which really need to be invented, those technologies and those ideas around the content and the services which we really bring something. Completely you completely new to satisfy the expectations and the requirements of the people and the challenges are going to be very much linked to contact into production management, sharing and all that. Being open to cooperative works for the management of Contacts. Here, I really believe that we have to increase the European self confidence. Most European teams to my to my surprise are very shy in going into confronted.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Was that believing that? OK, that is just too complicated. It's not the stronghold of the European industry or cultures and everything I think which is completely wrong. What we have learned from the past. Is that while the latest Internet leaders have been technology engineering companies, the new leaders today are those who are able to bring new forms of Contacts to the users. So people like Google, Yahoo, YouTube while bringing something which is not technology. Of course there is technology behind that. But it's not the driving force they bring in new business words. They bring you way to share, distribute, and monetize content through a very active link with advertisement. And they catch. I would say the different mindset different makes it, which is about which is closer to the venture capital industry then then to the traditional big large companies like mine forever but but I've been Speaking of the Internet of the future. I think that this question of mindset is very important. So we have to make sure that we capture this mindset. So lifetime of any of an ID in this new Internet. World is short, so the windows of opportunities are too short too. I would say take the luxury of thinking long time about it. Making a building very carefully crafted plans and then going for it. Usually it's too late end of the week, so we need very higher activity. We need to. Convert the ideas, transforms ideas into technology faster from research, research, whatever it is. Can delete. Call private to international whatever to the market and using the conduits which are best suited for achieving these higher ranked.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
This is how you speak. I'll speak. Of course tenants are are critical of this area, so why do I believe that? Europe needs to to increase self confidence in this story. Still on my project, my life, my year, my so today about media consumption and entertainment. Most people make an equation drawn equation contents equal in Hollywood's yes, it's a big subject matter. Hollywood is the most visible part. The world of contact, but it's far from being all of it. Fake news we have in Europe extremely credible. Extremely powerful. Producers of use. It's me just side to busy just to exemplify what a very highly respected European producer used producer can be. Of course you have equivalents in the everyone Europe. Moving to the more local local news are fabulous. Fantastic reservoir of contact or very high interest for people. People are usually very interested in understanding what's what's happening in Iraq or Afghanistan. Alright, but so very often equally interested in getting the pictures of the local football match for the kids where well, the kilos of family was playing the day before. And all these images can be produced either by the regional station of broadcaster or they can be produced by an individual who has uploaded the sequence in platform which is which targets. I would say the sharing of this of this piece of this clip to all interested users. It's all about the cultural heritage. I think that's it. No need to say we enjoy in Europe with fabulous majority age, which manifests itself through various forms as well, festivals or shows, or. Events organized by museums control cultural organizations. Whatever regional or national European level. I think that the variety of content is way wider than anybody can believe when when thinking in this direction. So I think there is a need to couple in the tighter way. These assets, which are permanently created, recreated, reinvented, shared by the different stakeholders values. Actors in this landscape in Europe with the technology with the industry which can enable the variety of tools large and small, we're going to make it more attractive, more palatable for people to develop the entrepreneurial culture as we need. Come back to my question about mindsets. We need to have more entrepreneurs investing their time. Their energy in this area and helping us to push more ideas from concept from understanding of the consumer expectations to the market. We also need. And that's very important to facilitate the emergence of strong academic research groups and to ease the transfer of technology. Between Academy and small and medium enterprises. The creation of Spinos and startups. I strongly believe that we need to encourage the growth of this ecosystem of small companies. Spin up startups. We round big academic centers and around large companies. Only those small companies. Statistical point of you will be able to be fast enough, reactive enough to boost the competitivity and the elevation of the sector and these small player needs badly. Needs support of both the academia and the large national corporations, so this is really a joint ecosystem development. Then we need to push through these initiatives. And of course, European cooperative programs. Need to help and are already helping this area. We need to understand better like you how to do push in this complex area. How tight of couple the investment between these three categories of Actors Academy a large roots, small and medium enterprises in order to accelerate innovation flow in this area which I think will be best served through. Super sets of cooperative programs that, through one huge major, centralized initiative. So. Thinking about what could be the frameworks based framework for hosting this kind of your fault. Many ideas have been exchanged. I will continue to be exchanged within certain experience, like for example jti for grouping several networks and efforts in this direction. Is it a good or bad thing? I'd say let's be very open. I think it has Jti brings a number of positives, for example enabling. Better involvement and of the industry in the in the field. I think it has also to make sure that there is enough flexibility and autonomy within the global framework which could be targeted by search API to allow this kind of cooperative approaches in this world of content and associated services to flourish and to. Properly developed, thank you very much, John shall. I'm going to ask you just sort of call it a draw there.
