Grouping data objects into clusters based on some criteria so they can be either data driven or need driven for data driven methods. We consider data clustering methods which discover the true structure of the underlying data. Each entry of a leaf node contains an individual data point and we upper bound capacity and variance of leaf nodes. Things in optimal solution. Each entry in non leaf nodes contains pointers to child nodes and summaries of points in the child nodes. The tree is similar to CF Tree and our star tree, but CF tree does not contain an does not save individual data point, so there is no Max capacity specified for leaf node and for a start right there is no Max variance specified for leaf nodes. For CD tree we built one CD tree. Our algorithm includes two steps. We keep absorbing points from the old leaf node and two the objective value does not drop. We compare our algorithm with PP micro cluster algorithm because PP micro cluster has a similar problem definition and which can be adapted to handle minimum variance constraint easily. The data set we used. Here's a result on synthetic data set. Here is a result on latter data set. We proved the NP hardness of the CDC problem. And proposed a new data structure called CD Tree. We developed a heuristic algorithm based on CD tree. We can allow constraints to be ranges instead of exact values. And we can design other types types of constraints to capture different application needs. We can also generalize the heuristic algorithm to handle other constraints such as minimum separation constraint. First you can design sophisticated objective functions based on business needs. For example, in catalog segmentation clustering results are evaluated by their utility in decision-making. However, existing models often require users to specify the number of clusters, which is often unknown or even if the number of clusters determined by the data distribution is known, it may not suit for application needs. So we propose constraint driven clustering, which utilized constraints to control cluster cluster formation so we can discover an arbitrary number of clusters. In particular, we focus on two cluster level constraints, minimum significance constraint which specifies the minimum number of objects in a cluster and the minimum variance constraint which specifies the minimum variance of a cluster by imposing those constraints. In sensor networks we often want to minimize the energy consumption. In order to achieve this goal, we can group sensors into clusters and must know the is can be selected from sensors in the cluster or diploid to the central area of a cluster. The minimum variance constraint allows us to allow sensor clusters to be balanced in terms in terms of. Preservation, we want to publish personal records without a previous bridge. What we can do is to group records into clusters and release the summary of each cluster to the public. The minimal significance constraint ensures that individual privacy is preserved. And since the variance translates into the width of the confidence interval of the adversary activate. In a group has to be indistinguishable from K -- 1 other records in the same group. It imposes minimal significance, constraint and minimum minimum radius constraint, but they did not analyze the complexity of the clustering model. Given a set of points, PA set of cluster level constraints. See we want to partition P into disjoint clusters such that each cluster satisfies all constraints and the sum of squared distance is minimized. Note that the CDC problem has feasible solutions as long as the whole data set satisfy satisfies the constraints. It's easy to observe that membership assignment of each point depends on its close neighbors. More important Lee.