[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good afternoon everyone, my name is wrong. I'm today I'm going to introduce you our work on constraint driven clustering. This is a joint work with Martin. Esther went in and in division.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
As you know, clustering aims at clustering methods they met. Grouping data objects into clusters based on some criteria so they can be either data driven or need driven for data driven methods. We consider data clustering methods which discover the true structure of the underlying data. By grouping similar data objects together. K means is a typical data driven method. Well need driven methods try to group data objects based on their similarity and application needs so they can discover more actionable clusters.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
There are two ways to. Capture application needs. First you can design sophisticated objective functions based on business needs. For example, in catalog segmentation clustering results are evaluated by their utility in decision-making. You can also capture application needs by specifying constraints. For example, you can discover balance the customer groups in market segmentation by specifying balancing constraints. This part will be the focus of our research. However, existing models often require users to specify the number of clusters, which is often unknown or even if the number of clusters determined by the data distribution is known, it may not suit for application needs.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So we propose constraint driven clustering, which utilized constraints to control cluster cluster formation so we can discover an arbitrary number of clusters. So the goal of this constraint driven clustering problem is to discover compact clusters which satisfy all constraints. In particular, we focus on two cluster level constraints, minimum significance constraint which specifies the minimum number of objects in a cluster and the minimum variance constraint which specifies the minimum variance of a cluster by imposing those constraints. Our model actually searches for clusters which satisfy, which is balanced in terms of cardinality and all variance.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The constraint driven clustering problem can be motivated by many applications, such as energy aware sensor networks and privacy preservation. In sensor networks we often want to minimize the energy consumption. In order to achieve this goal, we can group sensors into clusters and must know the is can be selected from sensors in the cluster or diploid to the central area of a cluster. So other other sensors can communicate with outside world through those masternodes. In this application. The minimal significance constraint can be used to balance the workload of masternodes. To prolong the lifetime of sensor networks, we should evenly distribute energy consumption among clusters. Since the energy consumption of message transmission increases quadratically with the communication distance. The mean the variance of a sensor cluster corresponds to the average energy consumption. So. The minimum variance constraint allows us to allow sensor clusters to be balanced in terms in terms of. Energy consumption. In private.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Preservation, we want to publish personal records without a previous bridge. What we can do is to group records into clusters and release the summary of each cluster to the public. In this application, our constraint driven clustering can be applied. The minimal significance constraint ensures that individual privacy is preserved. And since the variance translates into the width of the confidence interval of the adversary activate. By imposing minimum variance constraint, we actually prevent similar or even identical records to be released.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The constraint driven clustering problem is related to many topics such as constraint clustering with cluster level constraints. In this under this topic, many work have been done. For example, constrained K means algorithm and clustering with existential constraints. But those models are different to our model since they require user to provide the number of clusters. Our model is also related to kill an automated model in a solution to the anonimity problem each record. In a group has to be indistinguishable from K -- 1 other records in the same group. The key in this scale and automated model plays a similar role as a minimum significance constraint in our model. Finally, PP micro cluster is extension of K anonimity on numerical data. It imposes minimal significance, constraint and minimum minimum radius constraint, but they did not analyze the complexity of the clustering model.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
After knowing what has been done in the literature, let's move to constraint driven clustering. The CDC problem is defined as follows. Given a set of points, PA set of cluster level constraints. See we want to partition P into disjoint clusters such that each cluster satisfies all constraints and the sum of squared distance is minimized. We can formally define this minimal significance constraint, see can minimum variance constraint one here.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
The city is a problem is quite general. We have 4 special versions of of this problem. For example, seek CDC, an music music. CDC only specifies the minimum significance constraint. The six CDC requires the cluster representatives to be real data points, while music CDC. Considers mean vectors as cluster representatives. We study the complexity of those. Those four problems, and we prove their NP hard by reductions from Planner X 3C. Note that the CDC problem has feasible solutions as long as the whole data set satisfy satisfies the constraints.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Due to the NP hardness of the proposed problem with study heuristic algorithms to find good solutions. Also, I said before by imposing those constraints, the generated clusters should be balanced in terms of cardinality and or variance. It's easy to observe that membership assignment of each point depends on its close neighbors. So we designed this data structure called CD Tree which helps to retrieve close neighbors easily. More important Lee. It can help to obtain a solution to the CDC problem by post processing is lymph nodes. The CDC CD tray takes 2 parameters as an way which match those constraints.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Each entry of a leaf node contains an individual data point and we upper bound capacity and variance of leaf nodes. Each leaf node contains at most two X -- 1 data points. Things in optimal solution. No cluster consists of more than. Two X -- 1 data objects. And the Max virus is set to be two. We the reason we set this threshold is. Because we want to keep leaf nodes compact, so eventually we can minimize the sum of squared error. Each entry in non leaf nodes contains pointers to child nodes and summaries of points in the child nodes. So we consider each. Entry in the non leaf node corresponds to the subtree rooted as a child node. The maximum maximum capacity of a non leaf node is set to say which is a constant and can be set arbitrarily. The.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
The tree is similar to CF Tree and our star tree, but CF tree does not contain an does not save individual data point, so there is no Max capacity specified for leaf node and for a start right there is no Max variance specified for leaf nodes. Besides, both state of tree Anast Artry are not designed for generating clusters which satisfy constraints. For CD tree we built one CD tree. For each set of constraints, but when constraint value is changed slightly we can actually obtain a solution to the new problem by post processing. Leaf nodes of the existing tree.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Our algorithm includes two steps. First, we build a CD tree. We start with an empty leaf node and we insert data .1 by 1. Split is invoked whenever the Max capacity or Max variance threshold is violated. Let's take a look. Take a look at this running example. Suppose we already. Inserted 18 points and a significant constraint is set to five and we have this tree over there. When the next data point comes in and we will. Search the tree by following those links and find the right leaf node to insert. But we found out after inserting this new point, this leaf node has existed. The Mexico Pacity so we. Split this node into 2. For split, we first create a new leaf node and we insert the furthest point to the old mean vector to this new leaf node. We keep absorbing points from the old leaf node and two the objective value does not drop. We connect the leaf nodes appropriately to this to the other leaf nodes and we post post process leaf nodes. With a sliding window approach. We check each leaf node in this window and if a leaf node does not satisfy given constraints, we will borrow some points from neighboring leaf nodes. We keep doing this until all. Leaf nodes are processed.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
We compare this. We compare our algorithm with PP micro cluster algorithm because PP micro cluster has a similar problem definition and which can be adapted to handle minimum variance constraint easily. The data set we used. Synthetic data set, which includes 5000 data points. 2 dimensional data points. We use this data center to simulate. Sensors diploid in a two in the field uniformly. And we also use two real UCI datasets.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
Here's a result on synthetic data set. As you can see. Our algorithm can find quite compact, compact clusters. Efficiently due to the small size of the data set, both algorithm runs quite efficient.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Here is a result on latter data set. And our algorithm can discover comperable results. Clustering results. With much less running time.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
To sum up. In this paper we study, we propose a new, constraint driven clustering model and we focused on two cluster level constraints. We proved the NP hardness of the CDC problem. And proposed a new data structure called CD Tree. We developed a heuristic algorithm based on CD tree. And in the future we would like to do the following things. We can allow constraints to be ranges instead of exact values. And we can design other types types of constraints to capture different application needs. We can also generalize the heuristic algorithm to handle other constraints such as minimum separation constraint.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Here are the reference used in this slides.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And Sen.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Thanks for your attention.
