The models are run independently and then afterwards. Computers. The question is, can we do better cause this? Where there's a family in the Eastern Pacific. Climate models are typically related with dynamical systems. Due to nonlinearities in this systems. Predictability of states future state. So will it rain tomorrow or the day after tomorrow given our current state. The nature of the attractor. A multi model interactive ensemble method. So for example you have two models. And the supermodel, which we call now connected Sumo. Climate science, an atmospheric science for data assimilation. And instead of matching to the observations, ideas that had the models next to each other. And you can show that if you have sufficiently large connections that indeed these models, they will match together they will assimilate to set and then a phenomenon called synchronization will happen. So synchronization in Chaotic Systems is an important subject which is already studied for a long time. So strong coupling leads to synchronization, but you have to be careful because we coupling can actually lead to undesired effects. Depending on US applications. And the difference is they disappeared and only the fully synchronized the joint synchronized state remains. So this matrix structure is known. That means that all the other modes could say a dent. Anne. What is? So, given a set of imperfect models. So this way to sumo can be considered as infinite connection limit of of connected sumo. Normalized, of course, you can relax that there's no reason a prioris and not to do that. The positivity. So typically your training set of observations and then you optimize like in standard machine learning you optimize your parameters and then if you elevate the results on the test set. But here we are interested in in climatology, it saves how typically you are interested in. Weighted sumo yeah, because the system is linear, you can apply linear methods too. You can consider the total squared error after weights IMO. We have done experiments in low dimensional systems, so the idea is so good. I have assumed ground truth. Of the same. And then you generate a data set with a supermodel with perfect model and try to optimize the supermodel parameters on this. Here are the three the three attractors of the imperfect models attractors. Although the effective field surveys similar detractors can be very different. And if you take for example, a very short training set. You can apply sumo with this uniform weights. This is in a perfect model setting where. Learning these can be better studied on low dimensional systems, but we also applied super modeling on our application of interest in large scale climate models. So this is graphically driven system and assume imperfect models. So on the left you see the left two columns are two projections of different models, so the other two were also Model 1 and Model 2 assumed imperfect models. On short terms, this vector field learning is not so bad, so this. And the ocean model has 40 levels. And three horizontal degree horizontal resolution at S2000K variables. One of there's a momentum flux, so there's wind fiction. In this experiment, two atmosphere. Through the same ocean was like Robin Goodman did. You get a part of the convex scheme of one part of the flexes from model with one convection scheme and part of the flexes. They both receive the same ocean fluxes. After two flexes and. You could say the ocean and atmospheres are in these regions strongly coupled, because each of the ocean each of the atmosphere is coupled with. What you see there is that indeed the atmosphere synchronize and the correlation plot of the atmospheres is plotted in the plot on the on the right, where you see that indeed in the topics there is a stronger correlation, and on the model at regions. Therefore it's expected that these small parts makes most sense in the in the topics in this setting where only the flexor. On the test set, it shows that it still remains stable and improved sea surface temperatures, so the training set was from 1948. Against Utah about 20 global climate models. So these climate models yeah the most important use, I think, to simulate response to different scenarios of future emissions of greenhouse gases. So to give an idea why these climate models. So in this figure, this figure shows typically response of different climate models.