[0.0s - 29.0s]
Subject of my talk will be about this super modeling, so super models as interactive samples of imperfect models.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
The work that I will present in this talk is not only my own work an important contributions from in particular, Marilyn she and Frank Shelton, Greg Duane. As well as Lascaux Busnach golf casting, grab bar no. Keenlyside you're good. And Ipso 'cause I have.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
And assess you mentioned it's part of the larger similar project. We have several partners from the European Union including the IG says from Slovenia and also in America recently in American partner. If you want to know more about the project, there's a web link which you can follow where you can find all kinds of information.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
So the overview of my talk is the following. So I start with a short introduction about climate models, which is the application of interest in this main application. In this project I will talk about ensembles and give a motivating example and then I will introduce the Super modeling concept. First I will talk mainly about results in low dimensional systems, but these are important to get more insights into principles, issues, synchronization. Learning these can be better studied on low dimensional systems, but we also applied super modeling on our application of interest in large scale climate models. And I will discuss some results on that, and then I will end with some conclusions.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So if you consider climate models. I think all over the world and this. Against Utah about 20 global climate models. These are really big dynamical systems with hundred thousands of variables. And they are reasonably they are good. They put a lot of effort in these models, but they are not perfect. And to a large extent, all these models are similar. For example, the fluid dynamics, the geophysical fluid dynamics is on large scale, well understood, and their models in a similar way, but they also parts of the systems that are less well understood and need some kind of parameterization, and these are typically the separate physics. For example, cloud formation and these. Kind of processes. So these climate models yeah the most important use, I think, to simulate response to different scenarios of future emissions of greenhouse gases. And. As we, as I will surely day shortly, they will. These climate models typically. Give similar response but considerably different in how they. Project this response.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So to give an idea why these climate models. Ask how large. I think this is the main reason, so if you want to make a grid around Earth, you want to have fine written automatically you get. Quite an enormous amount of great points. So he can compute what would be the number of grid points with 100. Which integrates with 100 kilometers an for delays in vertical. And in the in the in the right picture you see this idea of discrete physics, where the clouds are even between these relatively fine grid.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
So in this figure, this figure shows typically response of different climate models. Um? There are several there. A lot of curves here, so in particularly quality curves are the projections, the future predictions of the different models? And if you look at one of these curly curves. That represents a prediction of 1 model given one typical scenario. Anne. The.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Now, yes, they are given in the different colossal. For example, the way its color and green color and blue color. They represent different scenarios. And those represent the largest variability of of the different projections.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Even if you look within the model. Between models within a certain scenario, then there is. Still a lot of quite a considerable spread in the predictions, even if the scenario is fixed.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And then there is the internal variability that I. Indicated to. A minute ago and that also has a has. Has an impact on the variability of the prediction. And in this talk we mostly aim to reduce the model uncertainty.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
So in this figure. It shows how. The quality of climate models may differ. They improve upon years, so in the upper while you see the quality of climate models, the purple dots indicate some kind of quality measure. I squared if you go to the left you get better models. Anne. So there are several and this is logarithmically scale apparently. There are quite a difference in the models. If you if you. Go more into recent years you see that the models improve indeed in quality. But still, there's quite a spread if you. Then look at the black dots. They often give the best. The best prediction, the best quality and the best and the black dots. Those are the ensemble mean predictions. Of these different models. So. Taking on someone means is I think is well known in machine learning. They may help to reduce variance and therefore. Increase performance.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So. In this project we are mainly interested in some methods. And in the stomach ensemble methods in the studies that I of the previous slide. The models are run independently and then afterwards. So statistics like mean prediction or standard deviations in. Spread of these predictions. Computers. And as I indicated, often these gifts best climate prediction. But then. The question is, can we do better cause this? Everything is in a way quite root. And.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Some years ago there was a study in what happens if you combine models viewing the dynamics. So this is a study by Benkert and 2003 and he couple. Two atmospheric models to one. Ocean model. Do atmospheric models are called Cam which is in green ankola which is in purple? And. They are both. Coupled. Too noisy and then separately coupled. An if you do, then look at predicted sea surface temperature. And means mean prediction. You get the green. For the car model and purple. For the Cola model. While the observations are given in the drawn black line, so you see that come is apparently too low and color is. Too high. If you take the ensemble mean, you get Cindy to better prediction, so these are the dotted. This is the dotted curve. Anne. But then he did some experiments, so we coupled the models by the flexes on the interface between atmosphere and ocean. And he considered several combinations, but in particular one combination. Uh. Is where the heat flux is taken from the comp model, so all the heat exchange from atmosphere to ocean comes from the Cam. All the momentum due to example wind stress is. From Cola and both atmosphere received the same feedback from the ocean. But that's done doing the dynamics, so we get a different system. And then you get the red curve. Which is in particular in. The right side of the graph. Where there's a family in the Eastern Pacific. Cold water is better represented the observations than the ensemble mean. And also which is not shown here. There's a better reproduction of. Is enso phenomenon? Which is this related to this Neo? Process. It's a dynamic process which cannot be shown in this statistical picture. In this static picture.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
This is basically a motivation to look more into this couple couplings. This dynamic couplings of models.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
So. To do this, we have to use the language of dynamical systems. Climate models are typically related with dynamical systems. These are coupled ordinary differential equations. An typically in this type of models that has limited predictability do and also chaos. Due to nonlinearities in this systems. And then there are two distinct distinctions to be made, so one is weather prediction. And that is actually. Predictability of states future state. Given the current state. So will it rain tomorrow or the day after tomorrow given our current state. And the other thing is the climate climate, which is you could say in terms of dynamical system. The nature of the attractor. And there's a picture of an attractor and typical attacker in low dimensional system from the loans. 63 model which I will discuss later. Which can have quite complicated shapes. Anne, there it's not so much. Uncertainty in. Or the question, can we exactly predict the state in far future? But it's more like can we compute probability distributions of events in future states? So that means that for four. Uh. Climate, we would be more typically more interested in the shape of the attractor. And typical questions are how often they will it rain or how often will storms reoccur or. At the heavy rains, typically an not always or is it more like continuous moose rain, which have different statistics?

[464.0s - 493.0s]
So the Super modeling approach will be. A multi model interactive ensemble method. So as I said in the in standards, ensemble methods models are run independently, so I made a cartoon picture with black and blue model and then afterwards you get all the statistics like the mean in the middle of the red dot or maybe the variance which is the step also ellipse. You compute that afterwards. And in the supermodel. You don't computer averages afterwards make you. Do the some efforts in a way doing. Simulation. So it's the. It's the cartoon on the on the right with the arrows. So for example you have two models. A random for short time and then you apply this ensemble methods. You take an effort and then from that new point you again run these two models. So you do. Basically you do some methods. Doing simulation.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So. In the supermodel context, there have been several proposals. How? To make this ensembles of models. I think we do. I doing that one of the earliest proposals in supermodels in 2009. And their idea is the following. So we assume that we have given a set of. Models labeled by mu, so these are ordinary differential equations you could say. In certain high dimension. And the supermodel, which we call now connected Sumo. Is formed by considering this ensemble of models. And connect the states so that attractive couplings so the CI munu. This is a coupling for the component I of the models and CMU new it's. In the model view, it's a term in the model mu and it attracts the model mute towards model new. And then to compute. Say the trajectory, the mean trajectory you could take take the average of the folder trajectories. But the idea that his trajectory is there remain close to each other, because if they go far from each other. Then this attracting force will force them together. So one of the motivations was that there is there are similar methods in in. Climate science, an atmospheric science for data assimilation. It's called matching, it's a. And instead of matching to the observations, ideas that had the models next to each other. Each other. And you can show that if you have sufficiently large connections that indeed these models, they will match together they will assimilate to set and then a phenomenon called synchronization will happen. So the models they will they still have a dynamic, so they're not not. But they all the dynamics is synchronized. Or will they all do the same thing?

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So synchronization in Chaotic Systems is an important subject which is already studied for a long time. And it is actually more synchronous, more general than by full coupling. So you can also synchronize systems, for example by partial coupling. And here's an example where the two loans systems 163 systems. Uh. That have. Full coupling, you could say an identical coupling in the index variables, so the X. Variables are shared by both models, but why the NZ? Are not shared. So they uncouple, and what you see then. Is that? Even if they are not initialized in the same way as the state after a while, these systems they will synchronize that's plotted in the upper right plot. Anne. And that's already result. An explanation is given in the famous paper by Pickering Carolyn the 90s. This worked for by coupling in the X direction. And also if why would be coupled in the same way, but it does not always work, so there are some conditions for that. For example, if disease coupled in this way. The synchronization will not happen. But synchronization can, so synchronization can happen in without a full coupling, so that's the message here.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Even in chaotic systems. Yeah.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
The X variable is the same for both. Yeah there in in this example they are the same, so it's a 55 dimensional system. There's no delay now, so is the instantaneous coupling you could say, and then infinite coupling. You could say, yeah.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So strong coupling leads to synchronization, but you have to be careful because we coupling can actually lead to undesired effects. Depending on US applications. But it may lead to damping if the models don't do the same and they are coupled. Yeah, they will counteract each other and that induces damping and. Yeah, that can lead to some strong effects even for example in this D simulations with low on 63 system. There were ten models. There are couples with uniform coupling strength gamma. And. And then the simulations showed. The X component of each of the. Oscillators and different panels show the results with different connection strengths. On the top left panel there is no connection, so all the. Oscillators oscillate independently. And then the connection is increased and not a certain moment. You see that? There's no oscillation at all, so there's something called oscillation death. So the coupling due to the coupling the full oscillation is skills you could say. And then you increase the coupling and at certain moment coupling is so high. That they. That they don't counteract each other because the synchronization is sufficient that. That they just do the same thing. And if there's a fully synchronized. State and you see that this damping term with XN minus X mu basically vanish. But for intermediate couplings, this term can lead to a damping effect. So then the question is, what happens actually so? This is about uniform couplings, but in general we are interested in what happens with. Dedicated form so you can try to come back to that later. You can try to learn the couplings.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And what is in the result? So. The previous slide shows that we should be in the gym of large couplings because otherwise we get this problem, so we assume that we under lots. Coupling limits where the state is fully synchronized. So that means that. Basically all the states for components of each models. Are the same. And the difference is they disappeared and only the fully synchronized the joint synchronized state remains. If you look carefully at the connection coefficients, see and how this coupling is modeled. Then one can recognize that this has the form of something that's called the stochastic weights matrix from stochastic processes, which is well known. So this matrix structure is known. It's not the largest eigenvalue under some conditions is. There's one unique last larger agravain Liu on the witches CL and all the other eigenvalues are negative. That means that all the other modes could say a dent. And the eigenvectors related to this eigenvalue. The right eigenvector is basically all the components equal, so that is the synchronized state. In this case. Anne. And the left eigenvector is. Is a factor which has positive components. An economic lies this and then it has the interpretation you could save from. Of a distribution. An if you now multiply equations from the left by this left eigenvector. Then you see that. The connection to finishes. And. Since. We have seen that the state is in a synchronous state. All the components are the same, so then. On the left side you just have the sum of this angle factor, which is 1. But on the right side, what remains is is the. Is awaiting of these. Of this oscillator components, so the. Resulting synchronize states basically forms a weighted minimum dynamics of all these oscillators. The. Yep, Yep. So. Basically what? What is? Connect to zoom out is synchronized, sumo does. Is like an ensemble mean with certain weights which are given by this. Eigen factor that follows from this connection matrix and so each connection matrix you can associate certain negative factor and these are the weights for the weighted mean dynamics.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
So you can ask. Why doing a connections? Yeah, you can also say OK, let's start just by by these weights. Anne treat him just as a similar model. So that's just another way to model this interactive ensembles. So, given a set of imperfect models. We can. We can wait to dynamics. We can take another summer mean of the dynamics and use that as a single model, the supermodel. So what happens? There is basically tried to. Picture in this cartoon where you have to different. Factor fields you could say in this vector fields are weighted and then you follow this weighted factor field trajectory. So this way to sumo can be considered as infinite connection limit of of connected sumo. Anne. What follows from that limit is that way it's a positive an. Normalized, of course, you can relax that there's no reason a prioris and not to do that. But normalization may be very useful to for conservation laws if it's model conservation law. Alt and you waited with the normalized factor then. Typically the conservation law also holds in this weighted combination, so that could be a motivation to consider this. Normalization? Anne. The positivity. Yeah, you may relax that. I think to increase the accessible function space to make given more freedom. So you could say there are many advantages to weight sumo. One big advantage is that the model is in a way simpler because instead of all the connections, you just have to wait. And. The model is linear in the in the weights, which is advantages. But there may be other reasons not to choose. Wait a supermodel. But connected and depends on practical considerations, I would say. So. For example, available coupling software in this huge limit in disputes models, it might not be easy just to access the models individually and try to compute weighted, similar weighted combinations of these differential equations. Sometimes these coupling softwares available and it depends also on resources. What I mean is that maybe you don't need to associate as we will see later. May not want to do couple all the variables, but only a subset of variables and data synchronization comes again in. If he if you couple only subset of variables then it could be that the other variables synchronized. So in that sense you want that because otherwise you get this damping effect typically. Not a reason to consider different flavors. You could say is that maybe the models have model mismatch. For example different grid size or different fiables different representations, but I will not go further in detail.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
So. These models is supermodel steak can be considered as big dynamical systems with parameters an. You may want to. To learn these parameters, one of the motivations is that. In this experiment, in bad karma from Ben Kirtman, one of the combinations of the flexes was gave, gave gave the best results and the other one so. You might want to explore more different combinations. An for that typically learning techniques based on data would be appropriate. So typically your training set of observations and then you optimize like in standard machine learning you optimize your parameters and then if you elevate the results on the test set. An issue is here, maybe how do you evaluate? Your model. So in particular, in this really large models. Evaluating all the infinite statistics almost infinite statistics infeasible, so you have to make choices. And that is often what? The scientist is interested in, I would say. But here we are interested in in climatology, it saves how typically you are interested in. Properties of the attractor or long term statistics and not so much short term predictions.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
However, to. Learning models are typically is done, and that is often done in machine learning for time series predictions. Is I think it already goes back to the early 90s and maybe earlier. Is to do shorter short. Time integrations. So. You want to integrate. You have data as in this picture. And if you start on a certain point due to this nonlinearities, these models, they will deviate. And due to chaos, stable defeat in the end they will deviate longer, more and more. So to try to make the trajectories exactly identical in this system, that's infeasible, But yeah, so the best you can do is try to make this similar as long as possible. So you define a certain integration time Delta. And then compute the error and try to minimize the error on the integration time. A repeat that for different starting points. Anne. Yeah, the. This is 1 type of learning based on this idea of the short integration, there are many the other ones. In particular.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
For the. Weighted sumo yeah, because the system is linear, you can apply linear methods too. Of my of methods for linear models to optimize the weights. And basically you look at the vector fields. The error and effective fields, which is denoted by this epsilon for each of the model, because the supermodel is a weighted combination of these factors fields. The airline supermodel is also weights combination of the. Of the arrows in each of the models of these vector fields. So these are effective. Fees are really short short predictions. Anne. You can compute. You can consider the total squared error after weights IMO. Which is this quadratic expression in the wait? There's some constraints on the on the weight, maybe the positivity, maybe normalization, and if you have that you can apply for example methods of. Quadratic programming. Anne. So one. At advantage of such an approach is that it's really fast compared to this integration, because there's no iteration involved. You only have to compute the model errors once these are stored in this matrix Sky. And then you apply your standard algorithm to compute the WS. But this is a method that I think is also known for. You know, some methods in, for example in paperback, confidence by. And you can apply to as well.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
So to see what happens in these supermodels, we. We have done experiments in low dimensional systems, so the idea is so good. I have assumed ground truth. Which is a given differential equation with given parameters which is unknown to the learning mechanism. Of course, and then the perfect model setting is that you perturb the parameters. Of. Of the same. Differential equations but with better parameters. And you consider that as imperfect models. And then you generate a data set with a supermodel with perfect model and try to optimize the supermodel parameters on this. Training set. NSS, the supermodel audiom test set.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So we done this for the Loan 63 system, for example initially. Anne. That works, yeah, quite good. I would say so. Here are the three the three attractors of the imperfect models attractors. Although the effective field surveys similar detractors can be very different. For example, you get 2 point attractors. And on the right you have an attractive noticeable shift and a large way is to assume ground truth.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
And if you take for example, a very short training set. Off the ground tools. Yeah, you can learn this super models and you can compare it with alternatives. For example, the uncouple ensemble is just the efforts of the three attractors you could say. Since there were two point attractors in this case, this yields were smaller butterfly shifted to the point attractors. You can apply sumo with this uniform weights. And there you see that there is already an improvement compared to the UN coupled Ensemble because it catches the dynamics somehow. Better. And then they optimize sumo. It is almost perfect. Yeah, becausw. This is in a perfect model setting where. Perfect Sumo is accessible becausw. The cinema is a linear model and also the Audis are linear in the parameters. So what they? Finally does is it finds weight such that this linear combinations of parameters are very close to the. Linear to the pumps in the ground truth. So that is for the perfect.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Model, but in general you cannot assume this, so we also considered imperfect models. Imperfect model setting. For example, a chaotic Lee driven low on 60 St system where we now have more complex ground tools. So there are two types of variables to face. Balls is accessible photo OPS. For for, for learning. And evaluation in the hiddens with H. These are some kind of processes that drives this observable system. Anne. So this is graphically driven system and assume imperfect models. In this experiment. Alone systems where we? Between crowds you could say model this driving force by a constant force, Alpha and gamma, and we took two models. With different parameters, different values from often gamma. And try to see what he.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
And. So what we saw in this case, which may be a little bit of force case, you could say, is that improving infected fields is not always implying improving in climate. Improving weather prediction is not always improve improvement in climate improvement effective fields. It's not always an improvement in a tractor. So on the left you see the left two columns are two projections of different models, so the other two were also Model 1 and Model 2 assumed imperfect models. The third one is the model that you get by optimizing the vector fields by this linear learning you could say. Anne. The lower well is. It's another approximation where we didn't look for optimized vector fields but actually optimized long term statistics like the mean and variance. Certain combination. To get the best results and this optimization was done on this training set. Can you see here that? On short terms, this vector field learning is not so bad, so this. Because the directions of the dynamical systems is actually optimized. So for short terms, it does very well, but if you let the system run for longer term, it runs into a fixed point. Anne. And you could say the attractor is actually worse than in in the imperfect model, so it did actually degrade the performance. While if you. Optimize on the objective that you're interested in. Yeah, you get better results, which makes sense so. Learning it might be not so straightforward application of the short term integration and you should be. It should look. Be a little bit more careful on what you're interested in and be careful with the pitfalls of this short term integration learning. A disadvantage of this. Long-term learning based on this long term statistics is that learning is typically more costly because you have to do these simulations. To evaluate long-term statistics so to evaluate. The cost function value for a certain parameter setting you have to run the system for a certain time and that could be costly.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
So with these considerations, we also have looked at more more complex models in particular. At. A climate model which is a combination like in like about Goodman of Atmospheric general circulation model and couple to couple to notion. So. Anne. So this is a couple of atmosphere, ocean model atmosphere model is called the Echam five it's a D31. L 19 atmospheric model. Typically it's about four 100K variables. And the ocean model has 40 levels. And three horizontal degree horizontal resolution at S2000K variables. There's a couple that couples. The ocean too. To the atmosphere, this couple is called an Oasis. And it's coupling goes here flexes. So the three flex is considered freshwater flux, which is the. Expectation if operationand with us. One of there's a momentum flux, so there's wind fiction. Wind from the atmosphere fixing from the ocean, and then there's momentum transfer in that sense. And there's also heat flux, for example. Radiation, but also other types of heat flux processes. And although. The model that mistake model that we consider this called come five. In both cases there are some differences which are this parameter schemes and two. In this experiment, two atmosphere. Parameter schemes the convection schemes are considered when it's called the ticker convection scheme. And the other one is not northern confection scheme. And typically, so yeah, if you run them in a typical setting. You have. Two independent atmosphere ocean models. Coupled with this Oasis system.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Now with this array system you can also try to couple. More atmospheric models. Do. Through the same ocean was like Robin Goodman did. So we have to schopler we can couple more atmosphere model to them. And. Fiat is coupling. You get a part of the convex scheme of one part of the flexes from model with one convection scheme and part of the flexes. Models with the other convection scheme. They both receive the same ocean fluxes. But it flexes that ocean receive is. In this set up, a weighted combination. Of. After two flexes and. The different fluxes may have different weights. So in the bin Curtman experiments, is all farmers typically adizero one? And here we try to look what happens if you. Let the offer free or take other choices.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
If you. So this coupling is only partial, so it's important to happen to know what happens the synchronization, and we saw that if there's no synchronization, that. And you can expect not so good results because you get this damping effects. Anne. So. What happens is that in the topics typically in the topics, this. Atmosphere. VX Fairies Fae directly to the to the ocean. And Fiat flexes. And this is not the case in the in our regions where there is more indirect relation. But in the topics, because of this direct influence. You could say the ocean and atmospheres are in these regions strongly coupled, because each of the ocean each of the atmosphere is coupled with. The ocean, the atmosphere basically also a couple together so there. What you see there is that indeed the atmosphere synchronize and the correlation plot of the atmospheres is plotted in the plot on the on the right, where you see that indeed in the topics there is a stronger correlation, and on the model at regions. Yeah, the correlation is much less so. Therefore it's expected that these small parts makes most sense in the in the topics in this setting where only the flexor. This coupling through this flexes.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So. In this exercise, we were interested in the surface. Sea surface temperatures. The CCSS. Anne. And. The error in the in the. Sea surface temperatures is plotted in the on the left graph on the left, panels in for about convection schemes. Where you see that in this noting scheme? There's a. A bias of warm temperatures and in a typical scheme as advised in in the. Two at low temperatures toward colder water. Anne. Yeah, you can say OK and if you combine it with I don't have a picture of that then you will typically expect. So to a wet and then a blue and red region just by averaging the two figures. Anne. So the first thing that we did is just look at sumo with equal weight so equal contributions to the flexes. Don't. And there we see that although there are some improvements in some areas. There's still quite a considerable one bias. In the topics. An also that's expected to be expected to do this, desynchronization. A strong called bias outside topics. Anne. But we wanted to improve this. So what we did is we applied. A learning method based on the training set of temperatures. An optimize the flex combinations. With different contributions from each of the models. And also for the different fluxes. So there was an error measure of the sea surface temperatures. The monthly sea surface temperatures defined. And based on that error measure, the model was optimized. They see that. The Bison sea surface temperatures actually much lower, so would it, even in this complex model. So this is sumo appear to make some sense. Although it was not fully coupled. Anne.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
And it is a considerable improvement compared to the standard way.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
And also. On the test set, it shows that it still remains stable and improved sea surface temperatures, so the training set was from 1948. Double 79 and the test set evaluation was from data from 91 to 2001.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
So that brings me to the to the conclusions. Anne. So we introduced supermodels. Which is a. And also a method that's in contrast to standard and some methods is a dynamic interactive ensemble. So novel weight for model combination. And. There might be some advantages so supermodel in ways a single model so. And that may may help to interpret results. It also is expected to in particular helpful for higher order statistics. Like in this low dimensional system, in each order shape of that vector. There was a proof of concept in small dynamical systems. As well in large are quite large. Climate systems. But I must say the improvement upon standards and samples is not really straightforward. So. There's still a lot of work to do to to have more understanding what happens in the supermodel approach an. To explore. The applicability of the methods. And. Before I think it can be fully applied.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
OK, thank you for your attention.
