Probabilistic and stochastic methods and the first presentation is towards feasible. Thank you, good morning. The phase as I will call them for short are just non deterministic finite automata where you associate probability distribution on every. PDF is probabilistic deterministic finite automata, which is same except that we insist on the base machine being deterministic finite automata or equivalently there is one transition only for each state letter pair. Graph with what we call safe States and candidate states. Candidate states are really pairs of safe States and letters, so we buy this candidate state. In contrast, our algorithm works in this way. That is really the case in many applications you have this data set and you have to do your best with that sample. A bit more precisely, our algorithm works as follows. Splitting and merging into one again it reads. These basically defines the initial graph. While there are any candidate states left. Clock intolerable Algorithm, Tries tries to cut corners. Let me just point out one of the reasons why this way is more efficient than the other one, and it really depends on the criterion for emerging and promoting our criterion is we have chosen one candidate state. Dealt with. Essentially, for all of them, if all tests are passed, meaning all test, say this is a different state from the other one, then that candidate that candidate can be promoted. But if some test failed, the point is that this is similar as given the current sample and it's the all the sample we have. The idea is these are test independent of mu, and technically I think that's the most important contribution in our paper. These tests can be wrong, can be wrong, can take the wrong choice if the sample is too small, right park installer, insist on always make the right decision. We tried a few simple dynamical processes, a couple that we took from a previous paper where we were basically caring about how well you could approximate Hmm's with PDFs. This is just a simple hmm that generates three out of the eight possible strings that of length 3 on. As you know, there are many, many algorithms to learn PDF. In part because it's an algorithm that probably learns in a framework similar to the well known pack style from guarantee, which is guaranteed to learn from a polynomial size sample of examples from the target, and there have been a number of follow-up papers so that discussed slightly different frameworks. There are basically 991 distinct pages and we had a few something over 100,000 sessions with an average length. This is definitely not generated by probably not even a finite state machine, which is what real people do when visiting webpages, certainly not by a PDF a an. The point is that our algorithm produced a nontrivial PDF, a out of it with 5060 states. We did our checks the L1 distance to the data set of the distribution generated by PDF on a new sample we generated of about 100,000 examples. I suspect it's possible to find even better notions of distinguishability, since right now we're taking obviously this Max between two different distances. It's not clear whether it's going to be me doing it. So our contribution in this paper is a variation of the algorithm by Clark and solid for learning these PDF A. In one sense. We have level up to more efficient test to decide when to merge and split states, which in fact it's more efficient, specially cause of these other property that we don't require any input of the user's respect to unknown parameters, and in general we think that this algorithm adapts better to the complexity of the target it does. So you fix measure D of divergent among probability distributions, and we're going to use the Kullback Leibler KL divergent reissue, which is a popular choice. We say that an algorithm pack learns, say PDF A with respect to this. Divergens DE for every target PDF am the algorithm produces a PDF AM prime such that and then you have these two parameter version of success which is common in the park learning, which means that the divergent between the distributions produced by the target machine and the output machine is with high probability. It is suspected that bug learning in this way may be impossible occurrence, and their coauthors showed that, assuming under some assumption that noisy parity problem is complicated infeasible, we're not going to bug learn PDF a in this. This distinguishability parameter is essentially a bound on how difficult it is. How similar two states can be? And they have these theorem that their algorithm probably bug learns in the sense I said before with respect to callback library. The good part, of course is there is this a company in theory that it learns with sample size that depends as a polynomial on. It requires the full sample upfront before it does any useful work, really. Anyway, the polynomial is fairly large, is huge, so even for very moderate para meters it requires a sample size like 10 to 2025 easily.