They just re management systems, some are complex, even processors. That is both relevant and realistic, so not just synthetic data that is semantically valid. And then our concise set of features so important features that that are needed in streaming data processing like Windows which are time bounded operations. And. And also contextual data which means again interlinking with other datasets. So we have defined it 17 queries. And these are the features that we are considering, so the typical graph pattern matching ones, an filter, union, optional solution, modifyers. I stream the stream on our stream. So in this case the rainfall observed is graph pattern. And the unit, well, the unit of measurement and the one in and out once in an hour. So another example, query #2 get all precipitation, observing once in an hour is very similar to the other one, but in this case all precipitation can mean different things. Another query get the average wind speed at stations where the air temperature is higher than 32 degrees in the last hour every 10 minutes. Now, in this case we have to compute the average wind force and you do it with a formula. Get the hourly average air temperature and humidity of large cities. So we have too much streaming data, but. So we are asking to detect a hurricane if it has been observed. So in this case we have the ASK querying setup of classic select. This is the final example in Sparkle Stream of query #2 get all Precipitation server ones in an hour. Query languages like the graph pattern. They have some problems. And well, there is also some related work. Yes, I think yesterday about a framework and tools that providing the link stream data engines that considered a subset of functionalities and was based on synthetic data which adds some flexibility. So as a summary, we presented as our bench benchmark for streaming RDF engines. And well, maybe some other work like exploiting more reasoning possibilities on semantic data. We can, for example, annotate sensor data with semantic annotations or publish sensor data as linked data using the well known principles we can internally interlink different datasets. So for example about sensor data publishing as linked data. There are already some bubbles in the linked data cloud that are specifically about sensors. the IDF model for streaming data in some in some way and they extend as far cool for streaming first streaming RDF. The first one is how to specify this type of queries. The other challenge is how to compare these systems. Second one, so for this we are introducing as our bench, which is the first benchmark for streaming RDF engines. And precisely provides this benchmark for query engines that extend RDF model and extend the Sparkle Core language. So are there any existing benchmarks in the literature or anywhere? For example, interlinking of data with other datasets, which is something that we need in the context of the semantic web.