[0.0s - 29.0s]
We now have Gustavo Lucardie. I won't give you any more details, just let you know that maybe he's a person in the room with travel to the longest distance since he came over from one of Cyrus and he even kind of not neglected. But he had his little girl at home waiting since 2 weeks for him. K. Good. OK. No. OK, I got well hello everybody, I like to think of the process of search engine optimization is a bit like making a gourmet meal. Also here, as Martin was saying, you need all the right ingredients. Correct coding, great content, little social media. A couple of blogs, social media comments. Link exchange press releases. Late nights and it cut off coffee too. In however, as well known, having the right ingredients is only a small part of the equation. Cooking is a process and you have to do it in the correct way and with the right combinations, especially if you are trying to cook a gourmet meal. You got it. Takes a lot of trial and error before getting the.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Mix. As if things were not difficult enough to rank on search engines, we are now adding a whole new challenge by trying to rank. In multiple languages. My goal here today is to give you some of the right ingredients to make that great gourmet multilingual search engine optimization meal and some insight into how to mix them together. The reality is that you could have the ability, knowledge and experience to be a great chef in your native language and prepare an excellent woman made. But if you want to have a good meal in multiple languages, you will need the need of native speakers of that language or you have to call it an Asian company, like as the Lion Bridge or trusted religions. As we have very limited on time and we could talk about this topic for days, I plan to only focus upon some certain points in particular. Well, I would like to share our experience as a language service provider cooking multilinguals Argentinian gourmet meal for our clients and for ourselves.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Let me tell you that if I knew everything about SCO, you probably see my smiling face near to Bill Gates and Carlos is Lim in Fortune magazine. I said this is a joke, but the reality is that your placement on the search engine is the new Park Ave address real estate on Google's first page can lead you to millions and eventually billions in revenue. So. Back to the to the topic. As we have a very diverse audience here, first of I will define that you have the well known search engine optimization. This involves the processes improving the visibility of a website in search engines beyond natural organic search results. In other words, not paid. Multilingual search engine optimization is the same concept but focuses on multilingual language and cultures. Now I see, oh MCO. Could be divided into on site search engine optimization, which is the correct payments of the content and code on your side to achieve better results in search engines. An offside search engine optimization which is the correct? Doing things outside your side that will help you increase your rankings on search engines primarily. Google Website search engine optimizations includes. A strategies like Link's Chinese party leases are the little submission block commenting directory submission form posting. As well as social media and social bookmarking. I would like to make. When these things and that is important, which is the difference between search engine optimization as AO and social media optimization? Smosh Smosh differs from SA oh, in that with Smosh, the traffic comes from sources other than search engines. The traffic comes really from directly from the social media. This is very important because. A new term is emerging right now out on the Sao industry, which is the social essay. Oh, this is different from using social media as. An upside as you to improve your relevance on search engine as I'm always different from use social media as an applied ACL. OK using social media as an upside, SCO is what I call social SCO. Right now there are studies that job, for example that 500 tweets could make you rank better than 500 incoming links. Something similar is happening to Facebook like Sangers. Later we could ask our firewall colleague if she got any information about that. Another very recent example is the plus one experiment that is right now doing Google which they are mixing the paper. Click on the social bookmarking. Does social media? He hasn't got the error Y that SA oh God OK SA oh in General Castle better conversion rate that has done Smosh? OK, that's the point when you are using social media to do search engine optimization, you are going to get better results that when you are getting traffic from social.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Media. Well, I want to mention a hear something that is well known, which is the white eceo concert and the black. So your concert. But I want to mention that because. Right now the she and retail JCPenney got caught. Doing Black Hat SEO and where several punish by Google so. Japan is a company of $18,000,000 revenue. So basically white SCO is doing what is acceptable for search engines. Unblock SCO is doing what is not acceptable for search engine, and what JCPenney was doing was not accepted by Google. Other important concept here. Is the long tail the long tail? Is becoming a more important, constantly monitoring when SCO and SCO in general, this concept was using to analyze offline against online book sales. In other words, Amazon makes more of their cells from a small says of a wider selection of books rather than from best sellers. This concept works. The same for a ciolan keywords. You will find that you will see more from a wide range of a secure keywords than from the two or three keywords that drive most of your traffic. With that been, say. Try not to make the mistake to focus on long tail keywords just for bring traffic OK? It's a very common mistake that. Companies that are a. Looking for keyword for the sake of traffic are missing the boat. You can find this all over the world. 1 runner example is large translation companies trying to rank for a keyword like free translations. Is it maybe rings tons of traffic but the low conversion rates? Ann will do you want to see or give you even more long tail as CEO search terms that can be found by your potential users and clients? If there is. One thing. That is very important to get a better flavor of your multilingual met mill. Is that translating keywords is not usually the best keywords to rank in other languages. It is not effective to simply translate the keywords as people in different languages and countries are looking for different things based on their own culture and behavior. You have to find the right keywords for each language and make and market them for.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
The right market. If you're trying to. Cook Multilingual search engine optimization. Mills W Free languages standards and best practice for international station is the first cookbook that you need to read before I even try to cook W free standards and best practices are using multiple insurgencies, seniors, basic rules. To follow by users doing wide multilingual search engine optimization for more details about that standard, you could ask their sparkies. But what I want to point is that W free language attributes are uses specially when you are doing multilingual SEO and search engines look at them. So you have to use them. An we won't really wanna see all you are trying to rank in a specific language for keywords in that language on this search engines and use the language attributes to define that language when you're doing international COUR. Trying to rank in one country regardless of the language. Then there is another concept, which is geographical. SCO also call local SCO, and you can even go. A. Divided this free concept in offside. SCO an onside the seal, for example, you could do geographical website, SCO trying to be in Google Local listing and you could do geographical on site SEO speaking about your area for the target keywords. Multi Language modeling was search engine optimization or international search engine optimization and geographical search. Engine optimizations are not. Mutual excluded. In other words, you can do all of them at the same time. It's just a question of focus prioritizing and understanding where or who your target is. And again, depending on the focus you want to highlight, the choice of domain. If you are trying to highlight geographical, international or multilingual search engine optimizations so. According to your target audience is how you are going to choose the domain name that.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
You want. To use. So finally I want to end by sharing some of the things we learned during our journey during SCO and multilingual SCO. A. What really worked for us was focus on the long term, an niche markets. Also, think on convergence an not on traffic. Don't look for the for the keywords that bring you traffic. Looks for the keywords that bring you conversions. Other lesson, it's a things change. You could look what is going right now in the social SCO scenario. An you are going to see that what you are doing half a year ago is not working now. And what you are doing now is maybe not going to be doing. We know it's gonna be working in. In six months. So. We use ourselves as a laboratory for see what's go. What's working in multilingual search engine optimization in our sides, and then we use what we learn for our clients. So I want to quickly mention free real success stories and experiences using multilingual SEO with our clients. Example one this week for large legal publishing company, the biggest in the states really. We were able to achieve 3 times better results when we are strongly recommended researching the right keywords versus using the exact relations. Was he knew the right keywords. We added them to our multilingual Glossary so our teams were translating with right keywords in term of SCO. No, no in terms of translation, especially in terms of Azure for URL titles and Uncle. Anchor text for the links. Another example. It is a large healthcare insurance company that need to target AUS Hispanic market in the northeast of the US. Of course, after the graphical analysis of the population, we conclude that their target audience was best served by using more Colombian Central American Spanish. Hence, we researched keywords from those regions to integrate them into their content. A of course we use here. Columbia Native Speakers, translators, an that work too. Finally, with a project we performed for a well known luxury hotel chain, we were initially tasked just to localize their site into twelve language. With the goal of increased traffic using some multilingual search engine optimization in the process. However, we were able to convince them that targeting keywords that broke traffic was not the right solution and we guided them to focusing on keywords that bring conversions after two years of work. Tiannan error. They were very pleased at the end. Well, this is the end of the presentation, so the reality is that.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
We are all learning as we do as yo so we can learn some things along the way and we think that these things are the nasson best practices of multilingual search engine optimization. Thank you.
