It's a big supporter of open source and two of the basic open source and Willows Ross and Open CV, and then I'll go in through a little bit of open CV and some recent work and then some suggestions for driving at least computer vision. OK, so like I said, it's a robotics Research Institute incubator and the real job is sort of the meta job is to turn robotics work into a software problem. You know they're robust enough to support this kind of hacky work where your arm, your use of the ARM controller might not be an optimal way of doing it, and yet you won't destroy things, so we work with many different research groups. Quite nice to get used to, but OK so people ask me about what will garages business plan is so I tell him it's the same as everyone else. So the goal of Willows to foster an industry, not just the company so. So Ross is the robot operating system is driving this easy recombination. We practice this by having these sprints internally so people come up with an idea. Can the software support? So let's start with the what's the purpose of open source? You know, this is somewhat a model for perhaps finer grain. Envision their segmentation image processing, calibration 3D. So there is this machine learning library embedded inside. Extremely random trees as a favorite out algorithm. And so for me it comes from sort of the Ark of computer science. It was done that way so that you can just use it in whole or in part, commercially or privately. You don't have to tell me about it. So where is it used? To me, the purpose of open source is to accelerate the human capability. Here is a inpainting, so this is just more and more of the techniques. So there's also the segmentation energy based segmentation. Here's I'm separating myself from the background and the robots by giving hints so you can have hints in depth an another hints and that's getting this segmentation. So the implication of all that to me again is open source doesn't have to be free. System at it has to be the level playing field for everybody, so everybody suffers the same cost, otherwise it'll stop this recombination. It ends up just being finding depth from similar triangles. Based on C. But C++ is much better. Deal, they want to make, so I've said this, but we're organizing this incoherent processing things in plug and play architecture that makes it easy to have a coherent frame and an easy way of plugging in algorithms. One of the downsides of open source is it's free. That's the upside, and that's the downside, right? A lot of stuff quirky, not maintained, so the advantage of compensation is the people stick around and they supported, and so you might be might take and how possibly open source can be could be funded is like the song Play model on radio, at least in the US. That would be perhaps closer to Apache, but but this isn't the setup and it's just my thoughts on you know how to make free work. Anyhow, this is this is visual odometry, so it's the robot tracking itself and forming a trajectory. I know that this will happen, but that's an idea and also for making this work and recombination working, I think you really want. That might be good. In fact, that's the case and a lot of the times there are. And of course the BSD license allows for that without without infecting itself right.