[0.0s - 29.0s]
I just I just put together as general talk on on sort of an overview of open source, and then what I'm doing and some ideas I had. So let's get started. If this will start.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Here we go. OK, so I'm going to start. This is the outline and basically covering 8 areas. One is the purpose open source, then what we'll do is doing. It's a big supporter of open source and two of the basic open source and Willows Ross and Open CV, and then I'll go in through a little bit of open CV and some recent work and then some suggestions for driving at least computer vision. Maybe machine learning also so.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
So let's start with the what's the purpose of open source? Any ideas out there? What is the purpose? Why do this? Other than that Stallman Song, which would have sent me running, screaming from the room? Anyone brave enough, otherwise I'll just assert my own opinion. OK, so there must be a.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Purpose for what we're doing? And so for me it comes from sort of the Ark of computer science. And again, why go in computer science? And to me it's one of the best fields for a single reason, and that you have you just building an increasingly powerful tools, right? Someone comes in and you know they can already do MRF's and whatever because there's just packages to call you don't even have to know anything anymore. You just call some Matlab or Octave package and you have all this power at your hand. So that's what makes the computer science that the rate of increase our productivity get better and better so.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
So. To me, the purpose of open source is to accelerate the human capability. That's the reason to do it, because open systems that you can leverage others recombined ideas so, and it's also the maintain that acceleration overtime. So you can build a lot of stuff quickly by using. You know, stealing, stealing, and quotes other peoples. Work or building on it and also one of the problems with closed source like you see with Microsoft. They originally they were quite innovative. They got things out there but but when you're doing it all proprietary at some point innovation becomes your enemy because you've already won. Why would you want to change the game? And so proprietary software has this natural lock in where it starts out good and then why change? You know they are dominant and so everything becomes a risk with open source you don't get that kind of lock in because. It's open if you're building an open source. You have to just keep running because other people have your basic capability stack, so this you know that's the purpose to me is simply to increase progress and maintain it, and the way it increases progress is this easy recombination, in my opinion that that I can use some ideas I don't understand. Some machine learning algorithm, but I just grab someone who doesn't and I use that and I go, but I know some cool features and I. Put those in and it works better than you know. The two pieces together work better than other things people have been trying so that you know that's that's the effect, and that's the purpose. You can potentially understand it and you can hack it, but when you look at the users are this big and the contributors are thin. Right and then you can. Also, there's a lot of reasons. If you're Google or whatever, and you have people you can maintain it. You can contribute, but.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
So the implication of all that to me again is open source doesn't have to be free. Unlike Stallman, I don't believe it has to be, but but it has to be cheap. So because you want the recombination, although mines free, I don't. I don't know where we might allow for for a method, which I'll talk about of allowing people to have whatever they want. They can try to charge, but but also that you know if it's going to be this recombination recombination. System at it has to be the level playing field for everybody, so everybody suffers the same cost, otherwise it'll stop this recombination. So, so the easiest might be free, but.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Tree has its problems also. So how do you get a model for this? It's no. How would you achieve that to allow free mixes of payment and whatever. Any ideas or just lumber on?

[203.0s - 232.0s]
OK, I'm going to go on the so. One of the downsides of open source is it's free. That's the upside, and that's the downside, right? So the people they graduate from grad school and there goes to support and no one is a lot of stuff dies. A lot of stuff quirky, not maintained, so the advantage of compensation is the people stick around and they supported, and so you might be might take and how possibly open source can be could be funded is like the song Play model on radio, at least in the US. So in the US that people are the musicians are producing. Songs in the radio can play EM, but there's a pool of money that people are paying into Copyright and you get paid out of that pool according to how much your song is played, and so something like that. If you had a fee on products. Or maybe it's all product, maybe it's some metal license. This is just an ideal future that will never happen. You have some other license where it is proprietary, but but you have a very small cost for using it. And but that that money is then paid out according to use, so you know, that would be one possible model that would solve the free dilemma. So everybody could buy in. That would be perhaps closer to Apache, but but this isn't the setup and it's just my thoughts on you know how to make free work. What do you mean the? There are companies where which have like open source, but when you want like as a business so so that. I mean, that's that's another possibility. But a lot of open source isn't done by companies or it's too small or quirky. You know there's people have some medical model and they have like 3 users. It's still, you know they might be able to sell that a lot if it goes in the medical machines, and so there would be some pool of ongoing support for all this other stuff. So I do.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
I know that this will happen, but that's an idea and also for making this work and recombination working, I think you really want. A finer grain of combinations we were talking about this over dinner last night, a little bit on people. I was at University of Tel Aviv where they have this. This computational geometry group and now open CV uses things like Delaney, triangulation, convex whole and well, we have way more sophisticated models. Why don't you just call our free code and from open CV I go? That might be good. In fact, that's the case and a lot of the times there are. These libraries that are more expert in whatever their field is, but you know, as a writer of open source, you don't want your library dependent on too many things because it just breaks and no one can compile it. There's too many things, so being able to maybe combine things on a finer grain. And of course the BSD license allows for that without without infecting itself right. You can recombine, but the software packages themselves have to allow for this, and they don't really. Right now, not in an easy way. So it would be nice to have a way of easily plugging in an.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
And just using parts.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
OK, so that was the ideal. Now let's get onto Willow Garage, which is I'd like to say so Willow Garage is a. A robotics strange place. The it's funded by some wealthy backers, so we're not quite a startup. We're not quite an Institute. We're not quite an incubator, but we're little pieces of all that I'd like to say that the name is Willow Garage as an auto garage 'cause we work on cars until robotics is, you know, we take in cars to do work to fund the robotics where this is not true, but Willow Garage I guess comes 'cause some of the money comes from Google. And Google was after Stanford. Their first place was on Willow Rd which were on in a garage and some house on that Rd. We're not quite.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
Garage but a nice building there. OK, so like I said, it's a robotics Research Institute incubator and the real job is sort of the meta job is to turn robotics work into a software problem. So to gain that kind of computer science in capsulation that I don't know anything about motion, planning and arms control, but I can control the arms 'cause I just called packages of people who do know those things and in the same way. You know people who don't know vision can just call an object recognition package and do their work. So that's the idea and trying to build platforms that support this. You know they're robust enough to support this kind of hacky work where your arm, your use of the ARM controller might not be an optimal way of doing it, and yet you won't destroy things, so we work with many different research groups. Again, we're located in Willow Rd in Menlo Park and we're about 55 full-time, 15 contracts, 20 interns somewhere around that number. There's visiting faculty and now. Post docs also and a lot of times, and you know if you want to contact me a lot of times we have people just visit and work, so if they're overseas and whatever we get him to do work for us for free in return for the trip so we don't have to deal with visa issues, they just do two weeks of research there, and you know, hopefully we've talked about it before and it's a joint project, they just come over and work. Get free food. We have chefs you know, sort of from Google.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Quite nice to get used to, but OK so people ask me about what will garages business plan is so I tell him it's the same as everyone else. Is the exponential curve. It's really true though. Like why would you go into business that was low and slow? Growth may because you're an academic, but this is always the hope of business that you can ride this exponential sort of upturn. So we think we're about here in robotics an again Willow is a big supporter of open source, so I'll go into some of this open supports, but they are now the primary support of open CV at 5 people and I'm I'm trying to get more into supporting open CV.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
So we also have NVIDIA, but will go on, so the goal is to establish the Linux of Robotics that's Willows goal and that means we don't. It's this Ross operating system we don't own it, we're just one of the repository's. Although we're driving it but but anyone can take a repository and make it fully their own and control it however they want, and the reason you know the Founders came many of them from the funders from Google, and they built an open source and the way they want it to contribute back. They also think Linux failed to control the laptop or the desktop, and the reason is it started too late. So with the robotics industry they want to get there in time that it becomes. It's completely founded on an open infrastructure and again the reason for that is that they think if there's an open infrastructure you won't get this lock in like you know, operating system improves to some level and then it's locked in by these competitors who don't want to move, whereas if it's always open, people can just grab. If they think you know Willows and innovating enough, you can grab the stack and take over as the the innovator so that forces us to keep on running right? So the goal of Willows to foster an industry, not just the company so. Will we're looking at potentially spinning off companies in vertical niche is you know? Like maybe whatever you want. Fruit picking elderly care, but not to own the whole industry to really found that industry. The reason the wealthy founders want this is because they want to see robotics happen before they're older, dead, right? And so the idea is to foster it and build it in an open foundation.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
OK, so. So Ross is the robot operating system is driving this easy recombination. We practice this by having these sprints internally so people come up with an idea. Make the robot play pool and you have a one week one week to make it do that. And often these call those hackathons. Often the people who are then working on that aren't the primary person, so the motor control person might take the vision role and the vision person might take the motor control roll. The ideas. Can the software support? People just rapidly innovating and that's like this standing on the shoulders of Giants. Except now it's giant.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Code. OK, so.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
Going over a little bit of Ross Ross is. Robot operating system. It's nothing new. This has been reinvented like 20 times. Microsoft Robotics Studio is similar. They are all similar. They're basically not quite an OS, it's a bit transport system. So Ross is meant in robotics. You have these heterogeneous distributed systems and the idea is to make it easy to work over that and.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
So what we have is it's a meta operating system. It's basically how to move data around. And. Be able to run it on multiple platforms across multiple things, so this is the PR 2 and that's our other product, which is a telepresence robot. They both run Ross. Typically, when you're working on the PS2, some of it might be running internal to the PS2 off, and some of its brain is running on your own computer, or someone elses computer, maybe three or four people's computers. They're all running parts of its brain, and we also have a cluster that that's starting to run. Many of the things on the robot, and this is just invisible to you. It's trivial to run across that anyhow, so So what processes the publish subscribe model. Producers and consumers are rise up in a distributed fashion, and someone that might produce saying I can produce images an another person might. Another node might say I want images, so there's a master node that coordinates that and so if images are being produced and someone wants them, then there is a connection that's established and so there is this Ross master that coordinates all that. Right now it's a single point of failure, the rest can go up and down so often when you're working in the robot. All the time. Most of the brains up, but you're taking your part down and up, and the rest of it's just running because if images go away then the things that use images go away. The rest of the robot just runs right. And if messages go away then the things that need those messages go into, you know idle loops and then when they re instantiate it all comes back together. That's that's what Ross does.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
Of course, we're now looking at distributing the master so that multiple robots can work together off of multi.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
Masters. So this is a message passing system. There's a takaran listen there. There's also things like services, so nodes that only come alive when you ask something of 'em. It could be an addition node, you say. Here's 2 numbers. What are they? And it'll it'll give you a message back. So there's two models. One that's always listening and talking. And and this service requests and service reply. There's also another action model that says I want you to do something and tell me, tell me if you could achieve that goal. So like move an arm to a certain location, it might not be able to achieve and it will report back.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
And so this is there's a talker and listener in the master node coordinates them. After that they just talk amongst themselves like this Saturday and Saturday Night Live skit. If you know that.

[609.0s - 638.0s]
So, so I mean. I'm just going over Ross again. It's a BSD model. It's open and easy to use, allows easy distribution. It's not different than a lot of it's of the flavor of many of the things people put together. The only difference here is it's open commercially or privately. We like BSD because we want to drive business, so we don't want to have to force you to open, you just use it. We want to make progress, right? At. Ross is run by these messages. There's a lot of details. Messages can be expensive to pass if you're an image or something, so we have node let that allow you to work and shared memory. You can declare that this message must be residing on the same machine and then just point your passed back and forth. Other than that, it looks exactly the same as anything else. So through a few parameters you can get all this behavior on.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
So the underlying code is the same, so it makes it very modular and easy to recombine things, and this is possibly one model of how you can do a plug and play with open source. So although this.

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Is a complex model then? And so you know, Ross is organized in these packages and stacks were trying to make it coherent, and I'll show where this affects open CV, but but the stacks are coherent processing things, so there's an object recognition stack and there's a arm motion planning stack and everything there is sort of coherent and talks with the same data structures and same messages, and this is.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Thing I'm trying to bring into open CV so to end on the raw story, these are the existing repository's as of today, so there's there's about 20 of 'em around the world. These independent repository's where people are running things, and there's a master search engine. So I've been working in Ross and we don't use FireWire cameras where we are because it turns out they're flaky when you fire wire cables flaky for distributing data when it flexes in whatever they tend to break. So, but I had a FireWire camera I need to use it, not just the driver, but actually a node that puts timestamps and all kinds of stuff on, and so I just go in the Ross repository. I search someone and pittsburgher something had written this note. I just pull it in since all the repository's always build themselves all the time. You know, it just works that I pulled the code in. It builds it's working. There's a node I'm off and running. You know, that's the positive side of this. So just easy to share and recombine.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
Parts of different stacks, other work, so that's the this message of. You know, this is somewhat a model for perhaps finer grain. I needed a particular driver to work with a particular thing I search out in the world. I got it, I didn't pull in their repository, just that just there.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Node. OK, so moving on to open CV. So how many people are familiar with?

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Open CV so that I know give talks at conferences and I did one like CPR and there's a big room of people and I had this intro chunk of slides like well so how many people are familiar and they all raised their hands just said well I'll just tell you stories of my childhood then because there goes my talk. But anyhow it's a full function library in computer vision that I started in 1999 is getting scary, but the support is waxed and waned and now it's. Waxing again are growing, so it covers pretty much all the areas to different degrees of Fidelity. Envision their segmentation image processing, calibration 3D. There's machine learning, and maybe we should be using other machine learning libraries, but but that is in matrix math, and so we are starting to use blops libraries. In fact we do now, but but we're going to write our own small matrix library because small matrices aren't very well supported. As far as efficiency.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
So there is this machine learning library embedded inside. I'm not happy with the interface, so we're probably going to overhaul it. But recent new things are from David Lowe's Group. This fast, fast, approximate nearest neighbors. So that's really useful. Extremely random trees as a favorite out algorithm. Mine 'cause it's very parallel and then so these are kind of statistical machine learning's not things like Bayesian networks and whatever that's had started an open library there and I just didn't have time. It's still there, but I've abandoned my efforts on it. I did it to general. I should have just focused on one thing, like belief propagation, but in either case there's a lot of statistical techniques, including a really efficient implementation of cart. And that's embedded in open CV.

[841.0s - 870.0s]
That is, most of machine learning is Kart, the rest are just playing games. So, but are the version we have is well when you look at use actual usage like as in this room of people doing genomics and whatever. How many used cars? Well 90% I'm going to use everything else that's 10% so. This is the timeline of open CV and from starting on my disk through through the lean years when there wasn't much support and I was in startup companies and whatever. Now it's back under full support now. I've also got NVIDIA supporting two people to make a CUDA, than I've got Intel back. They're going to support a couple of people to make some benchmarks and Google Open summer summer of code is supporting a.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
Internes so it's just a old chart, but the open CV tends to lean towards real time, so it doesn't have a robotics focus, but it tends to have a.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Time focus, which often coincides with with robotics. The license is BSD. Again it was. It was done that way so that you can just use it in whole or in part, commercially or privately. You don't have to tell me about it. Your code can be closed. You can charge money for it. Do whatever you want just to. Just.

[928.0s - 957.0s]
Help drive progress. So where is it used? Just everywhere now Google uses it a lot, but academic and industry it's used alot. I've written the book on it and according to their model of sales figures they get a model. Not that everybody buys this book a minority by the book, but by their models. There's about 450,000 users which is hard to believe. 'cause that's sort of more than the number of vision people in the world, but. But also the user group supports that kind of number. If you think about one out of 10 people might sign up for a user.

[957.0s - 986.0s]
Group then then that also. So there is the book and some links, and so these foils will be posted and go up and and but it's easy. Just Google.

[986.0s - 1015.0s]
For open CV and you'll you'll get the main site which links to all these things.

[1015.0s - 1044.0s]
So here's a quick tour. I don't know how I'm doing for time. 20 minutes. How am I doing for boredom? So you know vision. It's fun because it's visual and were vision. People were a visual creature, but this is just a small smattering of what's in. But there's edge detectors of various type. This is a canny edge detector which guarantees single thick.

[1044.0s - 1073.0s]
This lines among this flood filling, so if you threshold this image, you'll get some kind of boundary contours, and then we have very efficient distance operators, so you can make an image of distances and that way you can do matching and fitting like if you had that square you can put in another square and you immediately get distance to that square. And so if you overlay it exactly you get a distance of 0. If you move it off, you get higher and higher distance flood filling at various various kinds.

[1073.0s - 1102.0s]
To process images, Hough transform is transforming. In this case lines. But you can make it very general into another space, so this is. Sinusoidal space. So basically what he is doing is it says in any given line, you posit that that lines of any direction could go through that, but as in this other space, the line that's reinforces the actual line. So so you make lots of data goes in this space, but the peaks tend to be actual lines and so.

[1102.0s - 1131.0s]
That's the Hough transform for lines. Things like log, polar vision. This is actually how your eye your brain works. Your brain represents the visual world in this way, and so this is a log polar. Representation where distance falls off, like I mean the resolution distance falls off logarithmically in a radial fashion and this is a plot of if you were a tick on that Elks hide. This is the view of the world and it has a lot of nice properties. So long polar transform. It preserves angles. It also converts things to shift, so scaling and rotation can be converted to shift. So if you have a center of mass this is a square and I've coded in a log polar space so. If I say to take the logarithm of it, you get Theta and lorgar, and so the square it would look something like this as it rotates or scales. What you get is shifts along either axis. If you then re align to the center of mass, you have scale and rotation invariants in a Fourier space, which is translation invariant. You just get an invariant space. So these are some of the properties your brain uses for seeing. This goes a lot deeper into. Other things, the brain's doing to compare.

[1131.0s - 1160.0s]
Space but. So scale space is reducing images by filtering, so you have a Gaussian pyramid and then it's reverse to generate the image back, which gives you this Laplacian pyramid of edges.

[1160.0s - 1189.0s]
That's all these are just functions in there. There's all kinds of thresholding, including adaptive threshold, so this image is too dark and light for any one threshold to pick out the black and white squares. As you can see here. But this adaptive local thresholding can pick out all.

[1189.0s - 1218.0s]
Squares this is a picture I took of Yellowstone that was all washed out by haze, but the histogram equalization makes it clear.

[1218.0s - 1247.0s]
This just smattering of routines, contour operators. So. However, you might extract by thresholding or other considerations contours, we have come to our operators that you know you're working in a AN squared world of pixels, here 2 by two, and when you convert to contour as you convert it to a linear problem, you're only operating on the regions the linear.

[1247.0s - 1276.0s]
Things of interest. Morphological operators that pick up parts of an image. These are very fast local operators by re combining them in certain ways. There maximin operators that crawl around the image that can be done very efficiently and then by re combining them in different ways you can get all kinds of effects of picking out data, eliminating kinds of data that you know different frequency.

[1276.0s - 1305.0s]
Here is a inpainting, so this is just more and more of the techniques. This is actually written in the image, so the pixels have all been turned to green here and then. This is restoring that image from this damaged image, it just tells it to restore those areas of text. Then here it is. You can kind of see that E there has has. Quite restored correctly. There's this red pen on the screen. It didn't touch. So this is useful for a lot of things, including blending things into images by it does a texture.

[1305.0s - 1334.0s]
Infilling this is something I used in the DARPA Grand challenge, this robot race across the desert, so here's a segmentation algorithm at watershed transform that's sort of like creating Hills and valleys out of the gradients in the image, and then, if you can tell something is outside and something is inside, it will do this segmentation for you, so that was one of the techniques we tried, and segmenting roads from imagery. Ultimately, we did a modeling of color space, and that worked on a robot that ran for seven hours across the desert. Never failed, the vision never failed. The lasers fell through.

[1334.0s - 1363.0s]
Times but. So there's also the segmentation energy based segmentation. Here's I'm separating myself from the background and the robots by giving hints so you can have hints in depth an another hints and that's getting this segmentation. Grabcut is a graph cut algorithm. It's an energy minimization technique, but what it does is it starts out with an AMU just given overall box and say I want to pull out that and then you can give other hints of what's inside and outside you can give hard hints and soft hints.

[1363.0s - 1392.0s]
These motion templates this is just a normal optical flow, so if you can get a silhouette you stamp 'em together in time and take gradients and. You get this, so I did this along time ago and somehow these have gone around the Internet. I see them set to music.

[1392.0s - 1421.0s]
Because there's optical flow, which is, you know, motion tracking. It's a basis of a lot of things struck structure from motion and movies use the densely here structured optical flow constraint to be on a face.

[1421.0s - 1450.0s]
This was a. Mean Shift algorithm which I applied this robust statistic to tracking. Now it's a fairly common technique, but here we used it for controlling game. Turns out using your head to control the game is a really bad idea. It's not you do this for a few for a couple of minutes and you end up with a neck brace for the week, but.

[1450.0s - 1479.0s]
Perspective transform so afonin and full perspective of homographies warping the plane.

[1479.0s - 1508.0s]
Are used for fitting and we have a whole section.

[1508.0s - 1537.0s]
On stereo.

[1537.0s - 1566.0s]
The stereo.

[1566.0s - 1595.0s]
Maybe I'll. It will stick here stereo if you have a perfectly aligned rig. It ends up just being finding depth from similar triangles. Very simple math, so the story of stereo is really because you cannot get this mechanically to mathematically align the two cameras to convert to this problem, and then you have another problem of finding the corresponding.

[1595.0s - 1624.0s]
Between points and. That's sort of shown here. This is the processing, yet raw, distorted images. You undistort them, you align them. You cropped to the common visibility point so you can see here. Features become a line by line so that point is not aligned with this same point in the other camera. But after this mathematical processing there exactly aligned so the the correspondence which points match becomes a 1D search. That's what makes for real time stereo. And that's what we use on the robot. This is now. This is an open CV, it's I think it's the state of the art anywhere like you won't find a.

[1624.0s - 1653.0s]
Product that does it better. This is just getting into some recognition. I did a gesture control using histogram intersection. This was just controlling a video.

[1653.0s - 1682.0s]
And will stop it there. This is actually my father on his 90th birthday. Taking him up, glider flying, but it's really just matching his nose so in different techniques of cross correlation and sum of squared difference you can see is no standing out. It's just an example.

[1682.0s - 1711.0s]
Used this is the face detector which a lot of people use, so it's a rejection cascade technique. Maybe you're all familiar with this. Basically it's you want you know if you have a classifier to make a perfect, say, grandmother detector, you can have a classifier that just identifies everything is Grandmother an it will never miss a grandmother, but it'll be totally useless, so that's what these notes are. There almost totally useless, but they never miss a grandmother. In this case, they never miss a face, but they do reject just a few faces. And as you cascade them, you know. 20 deep you put it, you get something that's mostly face at the bottom, and so here's an example around at Disneyland for family that looks very much like mine, but it didn't get her face 'cause it's too tilted. I only trained it on upright faces.

[1711.0s - 1740.0s]
So that's the quick tour.

[1740.0s - 1769.0s]
A new and open CV. I've moved it to C++ interface. Here's the C. Lots of allocations worrying about image types and to the C++ we don't worry about anything. No allocations, no worrying about image type. Go with C++ is the message I'm trying to shift people over because I got this huge.

[1769.0s - 1798.0s]
Based on C. But C++ is much better. We also now that we have resources were actually doing software engineering, so we're putting in unit tests and build tests and all kinds of stuff. And these are the growing coverage of functions that.

[1798.0s - 1827.0s]
Unit test directory structure. I guess we're about about 2 1/2 million downloads now.

[1827.0s - 1856.0s]
Add. So the new structure of open CV is there's core functionality that is now it got corrupted, but now it's pure core, it's just structures and other things that are needed above. That's image processing and now everything as we're trying to start aligning everything into coherent processing modules. These stacks so object recognition is going to be a stack. All these other things are coming, image stitching, that's with Google Summer Code, interns, visual odometry, how a camera moves and reconstructing its motion. Three turning 2D to 3D and treating of 2D features along the side. There's these helper libraries FF MPEG and then a graphical user interface for IO. Open CV itself doesn't care about how you get the image, it just processes them. These are helper functions on the side that help get the image. We have this machine learning library that's for recognition. We're interfacing now. Have a bunch of other interface. There's a full Python interface that's replacing the swig one with the hand crafted Python And there's others that are on their way. And then again, there's we optimize this library, so there's optimizations it has C and SSE optimization soon GPU optimizations. Then we're going to have this user contribute area that I'm going to model after Matlab Central, and this is where you can put in your proprietary or patented technique. It will be clearly explained there and you only pull this in a CMake file. If you say I want that and we need that because there's some routines like sift that everybody compares against an, it's patented. So so now I'm going to separate it out. You pull it in and then you can compare against it. But you know if you want to use it, go talk to them on their you know what?

[1856.0s - 1885.0s]
Deal, they want to make, so I've said this, but we're organizing this incoherent processing things in plug and play architecture that makes it easy to have a coherent frame and an easy way of plugging in algorithms. This is a way that perhaps open source could take part. Someone has a better Delaney triangulation, another library. If I could pull it in in this way dynamically, it might be a better way to combine.

[1885.0s - 1914.0s]
Open source libraries. So here's an example of the start of this processing stack. We have features 2D in vision. There is this method where you get features and the description of them. So as I move around like the corner of that that air conditioner, I can identify it in different views. This can be quite a hard problem, but there are solutions, so we have detectors. These are the names that are supported right now, but you can easily write your own and descriptors. So we made this into.

[1914.0s - 1943.0s]
Face very simple if you want to detect there which finds interest points, you just implement one algorithm. There are others you can implement, or you take the default but all.

[1943.0s - 1972.0s]
You have to do is 1 algorithm and same for the descriptors. That's the detector. There's the disk.

[1972.0s - 2001.0s]
After again, there's pretty much one algorithm that you need to implement for a descriptor, and then you can the other functionality that you need that we have defaults for. Or you can write your own. There's a, you know how to match these things. We have a brute force matcher and a couple other matching techniques, but here you can pour in all of machine learning. We just provide a basic interface. This is where you might provide a much more surface.

[2001.0s - 2030.0s]
Kate interface for matching. But basically, you know these are the basic functions that you get. You compute the descriptors you add him to the pile of vectors, and then you'd match them and so you can replace all of these default.

[2030.0s - 2059.0s]
Buy whatever you want and then what you get is these nice charts, so I'm hoping computer vision that whatever people do they they they work against all the other existing algorithms. This turns it more into a science, so you got a new feature. Turns out features are different. If you have objects or you're doing visual odometry, but if you have a new feature you can test it against how the performance of all the other features and actually show that you're doing better and you know a lot of vision papers. They aren't doing this 'cause it's very. Complex to do this this comparison, but now it's going to be easy. You get a database point open CV at it and you'll get these charts out, so hopefully they'll reject all papers that don't.

[2059.0s - 2088.0s]
To test against everything else, same should be done in machine learning. I was going to show some.

[2088.0s - 2117.0s]
So the use of this on a robot. I thought I did show it here, but I'm running at a time so who just moved? It was starting. I just stopped it. Anyhow, this is this is visual odometry, so it's the robot tracking itself and forming a trajectory. By watching these points, these are the detected points and that's the tracking of 'em and this is using something called a star detector along along with the Fern descriptor calendar descriptor who call it. Anyhow, that'll fully reconstruct an exact trajectory using.

[2117.0s - 2146.0s]
Aerial points OK, so we're changing the whole interface for object recognition to pack it again in this modular. So that was just detectors descriptors. Here's here's object recognition in general, being worked on right now by my.

[2146.0s - 2175.0s]
Internes OK, some Reese.

[2175.0s - 2204.0s]
Worker will see. Here's the robot. I might have to skip.

[2204.0s - 2233.0s]
A bunch of this. There's a lot of detectors. Basically we can get out sparse Death By Stereo or we project the texture. If you see here to get done.

[2233.0s - 2262.0s]
Step and then using that.

[2262.0s - 2291.0s]
Can do a lot of stuff, so I think I'll skip a bunch of this if we did.

[2291.0s - 2320.0s]
We did a.

[2320.0s - 2349.0s]
Milestone two, which was. Finding outlets.

[2349.0s - 2378.0s]
Doors we had to open it so this robot had the run 26 miles. That's a marathon without bumping into people just running through the building day and night. And then it had defined within an hour. A second test that had to find the founder clicked on 10 rooms, 10 outlets that had to find the outlet. Open the door if it could, some doors we locked on it and it would have to detect that it couldn't achieve the goal and go on. And I think maybe I'll show a little bit of that. It's set up. And maybe it will run. This was the plugging in this setup so I won't show nearly all of it, but also the robot at the time. So that's opening the door. This is the real time and then moving into fast time. What it did was it could find that outlet and plug in exactly in one shot 70% of the time, but our bonuses depended on it doing this, and so we had a tap we actually intent in. We actually when it even. Even when it could tell the plugin, we misaimed and just did this plugging pattern to make sure to get it to 100%. But but now. Now the robot plugs itself. We use a forum camera and it's a web interface. You can just go to the website, plug yourself in and it'll just do it exactly. So Sir, gave as our witness. This is the founder Google. He was following this thing around.

[2378.0s - 2407.0s]
OK, so newer techniques of these gradient grids here I I can't go through all this. I'm recognizing transparent objects, that's new. By just simple.

[2407.0s - 2436.0s]
Combination.

[2436.0s - 2465.0s]
Of gradients that are done in a branch and bound technique by Oring and Anding so it's very fast. I just do or in orison and.

[2465.0s - 2494.0s]
OK.

[2494.0s - 2523.0s]
I think I'll shut myself up here. This is the class I thought, but using this algorithm they they were able to within just a month to get the robot to move, move to the table which wasn't shown here, but identify objects, pick him up and put him into into recycling bins to be politically correct. But I think I show here, so that's it. Recognizing the objects. Then it can do this in a fair amount of clutter, 'cause we also use the point clouds to clear things out. This is the point cloud. And so it's identifying that, and segmenting it and then grabbing this bunch of clouds.

[2523.0s - 2552.0s]
So I got 0 minutes left, will just go on to the last thing. This is some new work a nob?

[2552.0s - 2581.0s]
Recognition that we did. You

[2581.0s - 2610.0s]
Point clouds

[2610.0s - 2639.0s]
Getting good.

[2639.0s - 2668.0s]
Very new work that's going to be at ECC Vian.

[2668.0s - 2697.0s]
And the nips, and finally.

[2697.0s - 2726.0s]
We're going to end with just one more thing, and that's with open source with the Pascal, which partly funded.

[2726.0s - 2755.0s]
They have a challenge and everybody's playing with these recognition challenges. They get 60% one year and then they get 62%. But everybody knows what happened last year, so they're implicitly training on the test set.

[2755.0s - 2784.0s]
I want to I want to contest to drive looking at where you you know you really get a soul problem? You get 100% and that way it will put a stake in the sand saying what's solved in vision. I'm hoping to do this with Ross so that the code will be there. You can have any license you want on it, but when someone says you know is picking up objects on a table so we go yes in that code repository it's solved.

[2784.0s - 2813.0s]
I think that will drive progress and maybe machine learning can think of similar things. To do, so give people everybody is standard problem and then you must. You must complete that problem 100% and this will establish increasing stakes in the sand. What is vision solve? It solves all these.

[2813.0s - 2842.0s]
Things, so that's it. Thanks a lot. So I am probably first question, so from this I don't know open source software project management perspective. So what is your experiences to make such a project successful? Managing, managing in general is like children that are miserable. Mr Butterfield, now it's it's hard, you know, especially in open source like herding cats. So it's nice when you can pay him in that way you can not pay him if but, but there's a lot of marketing. I don't, you know, I guess. Open Source takes a personality that drives something. I don't see any other way of really doing it. When you look at the successful projects it's because someone stuck to it and someone's driving it. That's why I wanted a little replacement of maybe a financial motive 'cause you don't find that many people who will stick with things over a long period of time. I do it just because. That's what I do, but you know, to really stick with something so managing people is always hard. I find it's good to be mean. You fire people. You tell him you just out right? I mean you just have to on sometimes if people aren't producing or they're screwing up your repository whatever, just say bye but but other than that there is this motivation. So at least with. Vision. It's lot of people are interested and so you find. Several motivated people. I mean it is sort of amazing. Like if the user group truly is 400,000. I've got in the teens of developers so figure out the harvest. So I guess you find these special personalities and. Motivate him. I mean, that's what I do, my management style, my horrible manager. That's why only good people work for me because only the people who can survive that don't need management. And so it works out both ways. I don't have to manage them and they don't want to be man, but. You know, and the same thing happens with open source. You find these extraordinarily motivated people, and you know occasionally you find people who are doing damage or just doing nonsense stuff. But mostly you find people who are very motivated and you know. Pretty easy to talk with so. I don't have management is always tough, but. Further questions. The problem using the open CV is the lack of. We have a very lack of explanation of O2 user. The menu function times also the code there is quite insecure. So the codes obskure often because we optimize it and that makes it just. What different parameters in function right? So so this is one of the problem with the volunteer thing. It's more fun the right than it is. The document then tests right? So now we're trying. Now that I have some people under paid support, we are. I don't know if you've seen the wiki we are adding, we have now searchable documentation. We are. We are adding more and more. I wrote the book 2 and version 2 is coming that that tries to give intuitions about how things work and we're trying to revamp the documentation. And also put in the test functions an and everything else but. It can always use better documentation, of course, when you find something out, just post it. Or if you don't like something we now bugs and people often write me thinking that's more effective, but I just lose emails and I don't answer emails, I just flooding too much and that we have this track system and things you know. We now are trying to pay attention to the track and clean things out. And you know keep it flowing in an orderly way so so people don't issue enough documentation bugs. But anytime you find something that's not well explained, which. Happens all over the place. You should just go on track and say this is not explained and then we'll assign the ticket and someone will explain it. Questions. So I mean you mentioned problems of management and having incentive for people. And of course being able to pay people gives them incentive in-house management. You also mentioned the fact that build science. It's nice to be able to have open source software. So my question is a bit. To answer scientific challenges that might not have big money coming in, do you have an answer for this? Helpful, wealthy people I've always found to be good. They are out there. I mean, that's Willow, right? I mean the guy is extraordinary, like people at his level of money, often by big yachts and try to get in the paper and he doesn't want to get in the paper and he just support. There are people out there like that. I've seen these other projects I'm looking in Israel and there's a guy who's a really cool project that because here, in the Andrew Toles and early humans were existing together. And he wants to explain what really happened. Who's funding that? No one, so the expedition is not going on, but. So I don't know, you know, a lot of this is marketing. That's and it's sort of I guess I'm a strange personality. I did well in math, but I but I didn't get 100 scores on my testing. And whatever I make dumb mistakes, but I got 100% on the verbal so maybe that's you know and you look at the Apple designs. Nice product. Well, he's not an engineer. I don't know. Maybe there's so. I mean there is this marketing aspect that not everybody has. I don't know how trainable it is, but you have to. Learn how to network. Pick up some social cues. I'm not good at that, but I made this little list of like OK, they're getting bored. Stop talking as a rule, but you know you can find these people. It's like getting Google source summer code. They were rejecting me. I finally go look. I got in network. I'm going to find this guy. I'm going to talk with him and ask him and so when I talk with him OK, I'm in Google Summer code. It turns out they don't read their applications. So you have to have this personal connection. But this is this is the case always, and it's the it's the problem of marketing. There's lots of good products out there. Really they are. And how did they get your attention? 'cause you're sick of listening to anything. And of course wealthy people get a lot of people have ideas. What they should do with their money. You know they they don't run out of that. You have to somehow get there and convince them that no, really, this is what you want to do. I don't know. So a skill that's hard to. Pin down but. If I ever get wealthy or fun, lots of stuff. One more question. So then it speaks the speaker again.
