The hypothesis is that validation of clustering models is a fundamental challenge characterizing given or invented models might in many applications be of secondary in nature. In the future, you might have an automatic procedure which does exploration in the model space. You want to have a measure of how much information you can actually extract from the data. Favor models which are noise tolerant and expressive. Pattern recognition where you formulate your search for pattern in terms of an empirical risk approximation, you cannot afford for many of these problems. Do I need from Shannon's information theory? You minimize the Hamming distance for decoding, and in the end you look at the asymptotic error rate of the channel and that gives you the mutual information as the essential quantity to be analyzed in order to describe these these. In the metric of that instance space fairly close to this to this generator. Clusterings or test solutions here in the case of of graph cut, this would be these by partitioning. In a receiver an as in Shannon theory, you first have to define the codebook, and in my case this would be a set of code problems. Clear communication process where we use an optimization problem as an engine to generate the code for for this communication. So in order to do that, you have to define a mapping of clusterings on my test instance, how they re late to class strings. The decoding procedure is straightforward. So this is basically this intersection. Objects into groups, so you have objects. You have some measurements that it comes from a measurement space and then you have a pair of objects, an measurements and you want to group them into into groups. Now how can you do model selection with that? But what you would you like to actually adapt in this scenario you would like to adopt the approximation precision, that's, but you can also ask what are appropriate metrics in my solution space. Noise produces equivalence classes here, and these equivalence classes then can be used for coding. This gives you bounds for robust optimization and the quantization of hypothesis classes even allows you to measure the structure specific information in the data, because now we have a structure which is encoded by the hypothesis class. In our reasoning there is clearly a paradigm shift, at least to some degree from model driven reasoning to algorithms dominated reasoning and it comes from the fact that we are going in a direction of data analysis where you have millions of degrees of freedom and imagining. No no, but it's better than one, but then it comes with other with other issues, however. So there are a number of design decisions which metal in practice one is, you have to define what is the topology of your solution space, which class strings are close to each other. You want to define a criterion to measure the quality of clustering, and then you need an algorithm which actually gives you good clusterings in terms of this criterion and at the end you would like to have some validation method which actually tells you whether you have extracted enough information relative to you definition of what clustering is, and that would be the partitioning concept of the previous transparency. In the most general terms where you cannot afford to have a generative viewpoint because identifying the probability distribution of your data requires much more information than actually identifying a clustering, and it comes from these two numbers, this number scales much worse than this number here, and this is already bad. Ultimately I would like to have a criterion which tells you given my data, pairwise clustering is better than normalized cut or correlation clustering does a much better job than for example average cut. The other one is model order selection misspecification of the degrees of freedom. And clearly information theory provides it with something with such a model theory. So the problem is that noise in the data render solutions of an optimization problem unstable, and if you don't like an optimization approach to clustering, it renders. If you have then a code you can organize it as a communication by approximate optimization of instances.