My talk is on public transport service design requirements for the changing of phase of the South African. The first part gives you the chance the passenger transport trends later observing in South Africa and the second part is the service design frameworks that we're trying to. For public transport in South Africa. What are the customers got House of quality matrix quality function deployment. It takes the voice of the user. And the perceived quality of service is the gap between the expected service and the perceived service. In terms of households, we know that the household formations are on the increase and the household size is declining because of cost of living and urbanization, and also found that there's no actually simple relationship in South African cities between development density and car ownership like the previous speaker alluded to. Disability tends to increase with increasing age and there also are factors that go with with with age, decreased mobility, limited sources of income that we need to take into account when we design all that people modern, younger people tend to be in elementary occupations. High levels of illiteracy, sorry, so also this needs to be taken into account. Grant system. The any gap between high and low income is increasing quite significantly. At any given time, there is significant number of people who live in institutions. This shows you the trend from 1997 to 2004 and the age groups involved with seeing a lot of very active people. Dying, so this has good implications on the loss of income. Targeting on social grants and. But this image in class that says car is a status symbol and from the service that we've conducted. And also have seen that car prices are actually Channing relative to income. My kids peak and off peak travel. A lot of people still travel in the traditional pick. Then, in summary, this is the last light again coming to the question of a design user. Because we are limited by space in the paper, some other research shows that very, very interesting markets design markets would typically be a poor aging single mother and Anil or seek divorced unemployed poor single mother. 2003 it so it shows the the trip purposes for the whole population. And then you'll also see the awesome trip purposes that are gender bias. So. On a typical day did not travel quite a significant number over 11 million and quite even higher than the people who go to work. We've got three main public transport modes. That demand has been decreasing and the rail demand has been stable throughout the period. Should Touch tells us what a customer goes through before choosing a product from attributes, utility components, and then some values that the passengers.