[0.0s - 29.0s]
Thank you, chairman. My talk is on public transport service design requirements for the changing of phase of the South African. Customer public transport customer. When we started, this is the number of projects that are related to this. We asked ourselves is it possible to identify a design customer that we can target when we design our transport systems? And given the South Africa is is a diverse country in terms of all sorts of social dimensions, raise income classes, lifestyles and increasingly so, we thought we should explore this concept. Who can we use as a design?

[29.0s - 58.0s]
A design user and briefly just to say the presentation is divided essentially into four parts. The first part gives you the chance the passenger transport trends later observing in South Africa and the second part is the service design frameworks that we're trying to. Adopt from marketing Sciences. And in psychology, and see how we can best use those in the design of public transport systems. And then the third one gives you the the core of the presentation, the selected social trends that you are observing, and we think should be informing that definition of a design of a design user. And then I conclude by then essentially what this does. The presentation right at the end it attempts to identify designing user. For public transport in South Africa. But given the dynamic complexity of society, I think whether people does it best identifies a lot of research questions that I'm sure as researchers around this room, they will try that interests you. To come to South Africa, do further research in some of the areas that I think are very exciting and they add a new dimension too.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Our research landscape.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Just in terms of passenger transport trends in South Africa, and I believe in many other places around the world historically public transport has been designed for an agile passenger and traveling to work in the morning peak with a very good knowledge of the public transport system and does not have a car or is poor. This has been the philosophy throughout and we're beginning.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
To change this. Like you've seen the design person then was a person going to work. This is these are the statistics that we're getting from our travel service. So combination of service that we've put together for the purpose of this paper. This is the national Household Travel Survey. 2003 it so it shows the the trip purposes for the whole population. Education trips. You'll see right at the top. Foot by shopping trips, visiting trips and then work coming. And then you'll also see the awesome trip purposes that are gender bias. For example, going to church recreation type trips, medical services, and and so forth, but also very interesting is the other. The other components which is put in the survey, we see that a lot of female. So. Population group reports are that chip in his policy is quite a significant number of them, by the way. Showing that there is something that even in our service we're not quite recording and it's actually we're not taking that into account when designing access ability of our systems. And then also interesting is the people who. On a typical day did not travel quite a significant number over 11 million and quite even higher than the people who go to work. And this challenges some of our, you know, the trip generation rates that we use in estimating the capacity of our systems because there's quite a lot of latent demand.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
That there is out there that you need to take into account in terms of public transport modes. We've got three main public transport modes. The mini bus taxis, the bus and heavy rail suburban rail. Some people call it the trend that we're seeing is that the mini bus taxes from 1996 to 2003 has been dominating the landscape, getting quite a big share of the market across all the provinces of the country. And actually another interesting changes at the bus which is scheduled schedule system has been decreasing in real terms, not just in percentage terms, but in real terms. That demand has been decreasing and the rail demand has been stable throughout the period. And one thing that characterizes the minibus Texas is that demand responsive nature. When things one lenders does changing, we're very quick to respond to the land use provider service. And they are not subsidized directly subsidized that is.

[174.0s - 203.0s]
The other moves are. Just quickly not going to detail the minimum policy standards that are there. Basic olyvia in terms of travel time. Access time. Expenditure on transport and model split. For example, travel time to work. The target is to the minimum target that is, cities in other areas are free to give their own minimum Tigers that better than this and the last column gives you the backlog that has been estimated. You will see, for example that. Access to trains 87 people. 57% of the people said they do not have access within the standard that has been specified and 98%. In the rural areas, cannot access, for example, the buses.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
Um? These are the some of the design frameworks that the marketing, Sciences, psychology, sociology, offering a select few of those that we're trying to see how we can incorporate them when we design our our systems.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
Sort of things that you need to take into account. What interesting 1 one of my favorite is the kernel model that says? You've got attributes, service attributes, and not all attributes are equal. They are excite attributes. The performance attributes their basic attributes, basic attributes, if performance changes, performance of that attribute changes. Satisfaction is not doesn't increase as much as it should or is taken for granted. As in totes at some point. And then performance attributes are linear related to performance. Excite attributes satisfaction increases far more and then overtime. The nature of attribute changes from one segment to the other. This is a very flexible model and we trying to see how we can incorporate that into. Designing.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
Services there's the means. In theory, that's typical. Should Touch tells us what a customer goes through before choosing a product from attributes, utility components, and then some values that the passengers.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
What are the customers got House of quality matrix quality function deployment. It takes the voice of the user. It takes it throughout the design process and hopes that at the end you will have considered the voice of the of the customers throughout the design process from collecting the needs basic needs up to listing all the performance diners that services.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
So provide. Get best models that this had been applied a lot more in in transport. Passenger transport just says they are attributes. And the perceived quality of service is the gap between the expected service and the perceived service. And there are things that inform expected service quality, such as.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
Word of mouth and so forth. By then there is some research that says not all dissatisfaction leads to switching, because that's something that we tend to do. We say we want to satisfy people because all satisfied dissatisfied people will switch to another service. The switching depends on. A coping tactic that a customer uses and a goal. That the customer would like to achieve. For example a. An external self directed coping tactic and a redress goal could end up in customer, not repurchasing. But there are other set of combination of goals and coping techniques that exhibit themselves in other ways and we need to be aware.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
They are of this sort of things in terms of selected social trends that we were seeing.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
It in the market. In terms of households, we know that the household formations are on the increase and the household size is declining because of cost of living and urbanization, and also found that there's no actually simple relationship in South African cities between development density and car ownership like the previous speaker alluded to. We're also seeing a trend of children becoming heads of households is notable from the age of 10 and also child labor and what what this says is that mobility patterns of children will not be typical of a child that that you know, and we need to take that into account when you design an inclusive system. I also know that about 1/3 of African infants actually live with both parents in the same households, and this has got some implications on the people looking after the women who look after the children.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Something that that needs to be taken into account as well. Life cycle trends. Disability tends to increase with increasing age and there also are factors that go with with with age, decreased mobility, limited sources of income that we need to take into account when we design all that people modern, younger people tend to be in elementary occupations. And with also with high levels of literacy. High levels of illiteracy, sorry, so also this needs to be taken into account. Unemployment rate is relatively high, so there are a lot of people at any given time looking for work without money. So we need to take that into account when you design a system, a social. Grant system. We also know that the employment peaks at the around 20s and electricities and daily 30s. So around that age group, this increased disposable income in that age group. So it's going to be increasingly more challenging to attract that that market when. Their incomes grow. Becausw cars are becoming modern.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
If an alternative also on life cycle trends. The any gap between high and low income is increasing quite significantly. At so prices Crimination is important. At any given time, there is significant number of people who live in institutions. Marriages, lots of divorces take place around 3037 age groups. And there are many people in miniature.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
Involved in such divorces, mortality rates. This shows you the trend from 1997 to 2004 and the age groups involved with seeing a lot of very active people. Dying, so this has good implications on the loss of income. Targeting on social grants and.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
And so forth. In terms of kyos, 20% of people on only 20% have got driving licenses eligible people. But this image in class that says car is a status symbol and from the service that we've conducted. And also have seen that car prices are actually Channing relative to income. And so designing a system is going to be more challenging for such.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
My kids peak and off peak travel. A lot of people still travel in the traditional pick. But 10% that doesn't travel in that we say is politically significant and we cannot ignore that. But, and there's a lot of of pick travel that is taking place and we need to account for.

[580.0s - 609.0s]
That

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Then, in summary, this is the last light again coming to the question of a design user. So far we're seeing that. Is not a straightforward exercise as we we usually do in car designs and mechanical designs, and maybe the simplest tend to identify that they lose the underlying complexities. But we would through the paper we have shown some of the issues that need to be taken into account challenges that are facing us as designers or their systems by then. Because we are limited by space in the paper, some other research shows that very, very interesting markets design markets would typically be a poor aging single mother and Anil or seek divorced unemployed poor single mother. In the age groups 30 to 40, we think that person is very interesting for design purposes.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
And I thank you.
