Language makes cumulative long-term cultural evolution possible. Blanca has already reminded us. Similarly. OK, human students are sensitive to the violation of. By the way, finite state grammar is the kind of grammar that birds are using also in their song. But it's not the kind of phrase structure grammar that you see here. If you say after N number N number of a there must be N number of B. OK this is not like grammar in grammar. To to recognize these long term dependencies or long distance dependencies, because this would correspond to sender center embedding and this would correspond to phrase structure grammar, nothing else, not simple counting. No. So at that time the generally accepted idea that the difference is it between the brain of nonhuman mammals, cat, dog, monkey, etc, and that of men are only quantitative, seems to me unlikely and even a little offensive to human dignity is beautiful. Some of them are actually erroneous now, because now we know that enemas, at least some of them, can are able to form concepts and so on now, then. But if you consider, for example, language which is still true, then he goes on saying seemed to indicate even admitting fundamental structural correspondence is with the animals. Naudet Song Actually has a particular type of syntax is different from the syntax of human language, and then it lacks the symbolic reference that words do have so. Um, these two capacities combined together using words and sentences or words embedded in sentences is that seems to be unique, and it is actually very hard to to argue nowadays against the idea that some of this capacity is innate, which means that it is specified not back, not by culture, but by the genes. Linguists used to speak about design, features of language, and here is a small list, for example, compositionality. That meaning depends on how parts are combined. That that actually has three different time scales here, so it is biological evolution, which is heavily influenced by the genes as well. Linguistic evolution and then there is the community into which the different linguistic usages and inventions many times are actually spreading. Also you the success of your of your genes will depend partly on the cultural environment in which you are embedded and therefore the practice of language use will influence what is called the biological fitness landscape. This is a drawing which says which kind of disciplines are necessary, probably in order to have a full understanding of language evolution. In general this shouldn't be the case, but this is not true for cultural representations embedded in people's brain. And then through this protracted process you see to it that the neural representation is generating the child that is functionally similar to in two the effects of your neural representation. I said at the beginning that the origin of language is regarded as a major transition effort in evolution. Is necessary for human cooperation, and vice versa. But but for human cooperation, in many cases, keen selection is just not sufficient to account for that. Now, if you consider the different theories and there are many theories of language and you see what can they explain and what they can't, then you can form an educated guess that language use was probably. Positively selected 4 because of some combination of the following aspects. Look into yourself.