So which city is the best? The first one is we called complete subset regression. So for each target indicator which is in the picture here in Orange. For example, this one. And fills in all the missing values by some neutral values which respect to the PCA. And now we have a complete matrix and we can use our machine learning techniques as usual. We do linear regression on pairs of indicators. We can also find linear dependencies of pairs of indicators, so if one of them the area for example, would be in one data set in square kilometers. To fill in the missing values, one of them was this complete subsets which had actually very good results. 0.25% are MSE, but covers only very few cities and indicators. Actually, nearly all missing values, but the quality was not as good anymore, so we were around 3% here. The last thing that I just presented was this ontology learning from instance data and we found there are several relationships, equivalent properties, mostly population. But then what do we want to do? And all of this is available as linked open data. Have there are measures. And the example that we have is the European Green City Index, which was published by Siemens a few years ago already, which compares different European cities on how green or how sustainable they are. Use other methods for this machine learning like SVM's or robust linear regression. And then we also found out that if we have time series because we have data from several years into this time series analysis, we could also get better values. Or add more data sources. It's already open source. So we built city data pipeline. Package which uses standard semantic web technologies and we have three parts of this. The first one is data integration, where we first crawl different open data sources and integrate it with an ontology together in one big data set. Compute indicators we need values for all the cities for one indicator to compute a new indicator, so we really have to somehow fill in these values. How can you do that? Well, there is of course several possibilities, and the first one is just to get more data from somewhere, but that's not so easy, because how do you get this data? Domain knowledge would mean, for example in the urban audit data set of yours that we have 6262 equations for derived indicators like population density for example, and they can be computed from some base indicators, not a possibility. We would be to do unit conversions, for example using this Q DT ontology which contains all the factors for different unit conversions. What if we tried multiple linear regression, K nearest neighbor and random forest decision trees and we actually found that depending on the indicator, different methods work better or not so good. Buy a tenfold cross validation and using as a quality measure the normalized root mean square error in percentage.