Here is the hour Pascal to harvest project run, mostly from Cantabria. For instance, if you run through the reports in the Pascal repository from some moment up to some other moment, which Steve was very kind to provide me with. The difficulties for all those measures are how to set the threshold. She is support is usually usually abound on the number of times they observe the items in the application will show up, so all the items in the application are present. How to set the support thresholds and this is even more difficult to than the previous one because there are specific datasets and they can tell you which ones by memory if that if you try to go below 90 something percent support then it will run forever or just all your memory and you won't get anything, whereas there are other algorithms. Point 1% so 1000. Redundancies, terrible and hardly any sensible really found. So the first rule says more sessions start at the front page but then all the other rules just say that most sessions start at the front page. So this is the standard Association mining process that people want. They just processes user provided data set thresholds for support and confidence. Maybe for other measures get all rooms that hold in a data set, those levels or higher and this means. So the outcome is a huge set of rules that grows and grows as you lower the thresholds. Now how to offer the user a small ish smallish set of users. We want to discuss rules because for many cases you have too many rules. You first discard the logical redundancy approach. It should be there to be real logical presidency, but you just forget about it. And you end up into confidence boost or it's variant closure based confidence boost which was advertised first right here in the muse in Waipa. Unintuitive variant of redundancy that corresponds to this relative confidence and it experimentally empirical. This will set it constant mild. You set it high and keep it constant as long as rules keep appearing. Time.com AG is based in Sutic and is centered around the open source data mining tool name. The control. Engineers said OK, we want this behavior, but you program it from the bottom up completely. Is GPL with an extra provisions that give us even further permissions to usage to use it, something I, as far as I understood, similar to the lesser GPL, but not exactly this, and they get revenues from licensing because there is no way of licensing the software and it is the same piece of software is not a different version to open source and they promise it's going to be the same one. Then I talked to the CEO of Nine when he came to Barcelona for HTML PDF percent at Neiman Industrial Day and we had a very exciting evening conversation. And important issues he managed to spend a fraction of the budget. And occasionally there are a couple of places where the results were not what I expected them, so I have just not to make it available yet. To the nine tech lab. We had some leftover funds because Javier had not spent. We could maybe go on with a temporal extension with no additional funding and different student because heavier is left. But the good news is that in the meantime, climb is planning to apply for a 50 open strip with two universities. We are working on the full one. OK, so the slowness was not the result of kind of clumsy interface between 9:00 and noon, not at all. So we need to accept the exceptions and this opens a can of worms because now how do you wait the exceptions? Sometimes intensity of the application or whatever to whatever you call it. And of course the most popular mysteries what is often called confidence, which is the conditional probability of the consequent given the anticipated.