[0.0s - 29.0s]
Good morning everyone. I have couple of preliminary pieces of information. This is not possible. Kathy talking to you because I have several theories Spaniard and in Spain. We are all called by your unions to be on general strike against the loss of the right wing government and I am on strike. Although it does not look like but I am. The second piece of information is that if you notice, my affiliation has changed again, I am back at UPC instead of phone number. Seattle cantabria. The three years after your second area have been wonderful and very, very motivating and interesting, but did not look like the coming years worth to go to be as motivating. So it doesn't mean that that UPC they will be there anyway. I decided to come back. My email address will be now like this hosted.lewis.balcazar@upc.edu and it's not that easy to find that information online. If you want to my UPC homepage it points you to my only confirm page which points back to the UPC. No one tells you. There rarely actually email address which is not the same one I had previously at UBC. It will still work, but it's so full of spam. Then I thought I'm going to present. Here is the hour Pascal to harvest project run, mostly from Cantabria. Together with 9.com AG Company as his company of which I will tell you a bit more along self tuning Association rules, short name and.

[29.0s - 58.0s]
Many of you have already heard me explaining what Association rules are, but let me come back to my favorite couple of slides examples once more. The one thing that you could think of using US. Analysis For data is to look for implications. Implications would be objects that appear whenever the left hand side appears in an observation. The right hand side also has to appear. For instance, if you run through the reports in the Pascal repository from some moment up to some other moment, which Steve was very kind to provide me with. You find that everytime Disentis mention of gradients didn't mentioned that everytime Hilbert appears space appears. Or that there are essentially two families of papers with the word support on it, because Association rules have notion of support which is different from the support vectors. But we don't use in Association rules, they were marking. Yet. So when merging and support appear together, vector appears to with him and my.

[58.0s - 87.0s]
Favorite ones are those. We have a lot of mountains and a lot of covers, but they don't. They come always together and in a different.

[87.0s - 116.0s]
Their set of data you can think of the adult UCI data set. You find that to every time my husband is working on executive managerial tasks. Is Mary plus civil a spouse, not one armed forces? Not all military supposed the last one is the one that I want to take to run. You will find it obvious and part of the background knowledge actually.

[116.0s - 145.0s]
Toy, it fails. Husband does not imply male in that data set to pull, 7110 says rolling family husband sex female. Don't ask me why. There may be many of these systems that maybe there is a mistake in feeling. Therefore maybe the person is a female and consider that her role in the family's husband. Maybe it says Mail whose husband and considers himself a male. Whatever can happen anything can happen. The only data objective data is that this implication doesn't hold. Seemingly.

[145.0s - 174.0s]
Ready for a wife in place. Female psychopath exceptions. So we need to accept the exceptions and this opens a can of worms because now how do you wait the exceptions? How do you define when something holds? We have a number of issues to clarify here that I am not going to into the math just sufficient to say that each of those words or whatever items I am working with our model as propositional variables can be true or false and that I am looking at plane. Implications in this sense, which is equivalent to conjunctions of horn clauses. Because the implications will always have this form, not this or not. This or not, this or this that you can write in implicational form. Then how do we account for the access?

[174.0s - 203.0s]
Patients it's very important to clarify it because if we just let me go back just a minute if.

[203.0s - 232.0s]
You just say that the social rules are expressions like this, which is what every paper essentially says. These are at least defining only the syntax, but it does not define what the mathematical logic actually is. As long as sure as soon as you have accepted exceptions, you have to.

[232.0s - 261.0s]
And if I, how do you measure them? To have a clear know, mathematically well defined notion, you have to measure what this color. Sometimes intensity of the application or whatever to whatever you call it. And of course the most popular mysteries what is often called confidence, which is the conditional probability of the consequent given the anticipated.

[261.0s - 290.0s]
So you figure back this would take for instance the number of times may. The conditional probability number of times both occur together divided by number of times left hand side occurs so the conditional probability of the consequent given their dissident. Made.

[290.0s - 319.0s]
Don't really work and there is. You will tell you briefly why nominate. Therefore there are about couple couple hundreds alternative definitions by many people. Lift level Russian waiter relative accuracy of three among the most better known ones. There is a famous through and with two asses and they stand for submission over. Yeah, there are many, which is the one that really works. All of them in some cases and none of them in all cases. So what happens that everybody comes out with anyone and I am going to come out with a new one.

[319.0s - 348.0s]
The difficulties for all those measures are how to set the threshold. So if you want to set a threshold which is the confidence as support standard framework, you set thresholds on confidence and support coming. How to shade it for confidence. Still, you can think of it as I know 95% is very high confidence, 65% is not very high confidence or still show some correlation. But for many other measures, they can spread the whole line of the real numbers, and so the threshold would at 20 or at 100 or another 1 / 20 or at 1 / 100. It's really difficult to come up with the right right whatever it means thresholds. Then the other quantity.

[348.0s - 377.0s]
She is support is usually usually abound on the number of times they observe the items in the application will show up, so all the items in the application are present. And the issue in partial lower bound on the support essentially by because of two reasons. One is to avoid the statistical artifacts thing that happened by chance together just because happen. They happened so little and some of them happen together. But there is so much more basic reason is that we are looking at a power set. We are looking at all potential combinations of items among them, and this is exponentially big on already rather big set of items that is hundreds or even thousands or even 10s of thousands. So the power set is absolutely unmanageable. We don't look at the whole power, certainly what to what we call close. It sets but still is huge. The lattice they formed, closure lattice takes very long to explore and even your hard drive capabilities are easily exhausted and this.

[377.0s - 406.0s]
Gives again the same problem as before. How to set the support thresholds and this is even more difficult to than the previous one because there are specific datasets and they can tell you which ones by memory if that if you try to go below 90 something percent support then it will run forever or just all your memory and you won't get anything, whereas there are other algorithms. All others datasets where the same algorithms find nothing until you get down to. Point 1% so 1000. Of the fraction of the total radius, about 1000. I mean, this is this huge space to explore. How do you set the threshold? Maybe just start a very high just to make sure that things converge and you find nothing and nothing and. How fast do you get down if you get down too fast and maybe you get are all of a sudden into a blow up. If you are very slowly, you may take forever for you to get down to the place where the interesting thing happens. Interesting things happen.

[406.0s - 435.0s]
And this together make Association rule set particular data analysis tool that has an enormous success in academic research areas. And no success essentially in practice. And the algorithms are very interesting, very wonderful variations of algorithms. This keep gives us opportunities to publish papers and papers and papers. But then you go to use them and. Redundancies, terrible and hardly any sensible really found. I have a few examples. This is the first one. This is from data set coming from my model environment or one of those so it has logged all the actions of all the students and there are only two ways to get into the system through the forum or through their front page. And hardly anybody goes through the forum. So the first rule says more sessions start at the front page but then all the other rules just say that most sessions start at the front page. Particular cases where you say if you visit there then you started there. If you go there and you started there of course. And be careful, this is not formally speaking redundant information. Because it could be that a subset of the part of the population, something happens with high frequency and for a small part of it characterized by an extra item very, very different things happen. This is possible, so this is not redundant formally speaking, but we don't want to see that. So.

[435.0s - 464.0s]
Another example coming back to the abstracts of Pascal reports, this is the support and confidence you find for supporting place vector and vector implies support. But if you run at 70% and 5% support.

[464.0s - 493.0s]
I find many other variations and. Some of them are interesting, some of them aren't. For instance, knowing that you can boost up this 80% seventy 7% all the way to 100 or almost 100 by just adding machines in the left hand side. This is interesting, but if you're just increasing by 1% from 81 to 82 by adding data. This does not say anything. Anything new. Worse, by adding data you may find a rule that if you look at it alone may look very interesting, but as soon as you realize that your confidence dropped actually from the simpler one. You don't want to see that when the simpler one is, better has higher confidence and it's a simple rule. Hey.

[493.0s - 522.0s]
I have one more example. In the contraception method, this is very famous. Very especially considering means essentially everybody has a TV. And everybody has a TV. So if the location is like this and whatever, then if they have a TV and their standard of living in this and they have a TV and if you get up all the way to 64 and find nothing else.

[522.0s - 551.0s]
So this is the standard Association mining process that people want. Tell you it doesn't work in a conference room larger than this one. This one still, if it's a real confidence you claim Association rules are also very important. But didn't you talk to the CEO ofnine.com AG? He tells you are walking along the street, but you work on Association with it. They don't work. How is the process? They just processes user provided data set thresholds for support and confidence. Maybe for other measures get all rooms that hold in a data set, those levels or higher and this means. All rules that hold let me phrase it differently. All rules that are not disproved. Baby data set. And there are many, many, many, many rules. You need a lot of observations to disprove many, many many rules. And usually you don't have a lot of observations. So the outcome is a huge set of rules that grows and grows as you lower the thresholds. Provided that you get any role at all. Now how to offer the user a small ish smallish set of users. There are a number of natural notions of redundancy and minimum size basis. There was the essential basis of renewal. Representative basis of. I don't remember the name of Vietnamese Vietnam name in France, where representative of creativity in Poland, number of proposals were made for redundancy for minimum size basis. And a few years back, and this was when I was visiting UCL. I eventually found out that large number of them boil it out off to exactly 2 versions and you could characterize each of the notions as one of the two. So that was good news. Essentially, we're dealing with shame because many people have proposed different views and it turns out that the mathematical object is the same. And the definition of the two variants is simple. The full confidence implications have very much more structured than the implicated. They're transitive, whatever, and they can be summarized it better. So if your threshold is very high, it pays off to the treat them separately and compress them separately and then compressibility others as the threshold gets lower. Defense is not that clear and sometimes it's better to not do that. So these Association rules, if you think that they have to be sort of consecutive words or kind of not necessarily. In the in the current formulation, anywhere of course there are all sorts of variations where they want them to be consecutive. Or do you want them to be in a particular order? Then there are all the variations exist and not all of them are sufficiently well studied yet. So you can imagine those ones which is sort of not consecutive or much more problematic to estimate with some kind of certainty. In the examples that I was mentioning that for the access like datasets from natural language like the abstract, this is probably too, but in other datasets where there is no relation between, this may not happen. For instance, the data set from sensors you just get values for attributes and there is no further structure there. So this is what happens.

[551.0s - 580.0s]
For one specific data set, one of the basic benchmarks in the area for the basis size, the red one is the representative rules. Where do compress all of them without loss of information. The Green one is. We've just done lost information either but St separately. The full implications to spare some. And the this is a fixed support. I think the 60% or 40% and this is confidence between 50% and 101. Puzzling thing of this figure for the first time you see it is that if you lower the threshold of the confidence, intuitively more real shows should. Appear so how come that the curve decreases and the reason is very interesting. My reason is that there are there may be some rule of confidence, say 80% that is very strong, but it's 80% confidence, not 82 or not 85. So if you run at 85 or at 90 you don't have this rule. And instead of it a large number of variations that happened to have a little more confidence. Up here but as soon as the official gets down and you get this strong rule, it kills by redundancy. All this family of variations. And you get off the redundant rules and focus on the new rule that you have. So this leads us to the following intuition. Maybe what matters is not that much the absolute value of the confidence, but the relative value of the confidence compared to the value of the confidence of similar rules that say essentially the same message. So for instance, if I release in devices here but gets kicked off when the threshold drops a little, that's really not very interesting because something stronger has almost the same confidence. But if we're releasing the bases here and stays there. As you get down for long. That's really interesting. Is saying something with some confidence and anything that is stronger has much less confidence. Choice out. But

[580.0s - 609.0s]
It didn't work either. So what we cover now, we have that. We want to discuss rules because for many cases you have too many rules. You first discard the logical redundancy approach. It discounts, but you are still in the hundreds. You take this logical novelty confidence with, which is what I was alluding to just a minute ago. It's promising it works, but still unsatisfactory, and in particular it doesn't solve the whole set of examples that I have shown before. Because there is no formal redundancy there. And then it turns out that you can just forget about one of the setting questions in the definition. It should be there to be real logical presidency, but you just forget about it. And you end up into confidence boost or it's variant closure based confidence boost which was advertised first right here in the muse in Waipa. And then. Unintuitive variant of redundancy that corresponds to this relative confidence and it experimentally empirical. You will find that it usually works well, sets apart of yours. Also they have good quality. What quality, intuitively speaking, so is there?

[609.0s - 638.0s]
Not to sure. Pricing video. What do you think of then? It so happens that this quantity. Behaves relatively well compared to other measures, as too precious to predict which interval it's going to move on. And then I thought, is it possible to do like Petry was showing us just other user stand algorithm but you don't have access to any single St drop the data set there and find something. What to do is config.

[638.0s - 667.0s]
This will set it constant mild. My experience is at 65 percent is seems a little bit but I am not relying on confidence to filter. I'm relying on confidence boost but then what about support?

[667.0s - 696.0s]
Force.

[696.0s - 725.0s]
Report we are gambling on the following. We chatted very low. Very very very very low. Will explore at that support within a decent time with your current technology. Good as soon as the hip open of pending closures, overflows, rises. Support kick out half of it. I'm gone. So if you kind of can't afford exploration at that support, just raise it, but only when you know that you cannot go on. Of course, this means that an large number of things that will be discarded eventually cannot be discarded right away, and the algorithm is much slower. Then state of the art.

[725.0s - 754.0s]
And then confidence boost.

[754.0s - 783.0s]
Is the tool that we use to filter the number of rules. You set it high and keep it constant as long as rules keep appearing. But if no rules appear, we monitor the lift of a syntactic first certain syntactic form of rules that have a mathematical connection to confidence to adjust it and to lower it. So we have in Source Forge. I've searched implementation written fully in Python And I did not know at the time that this was such a terrible decision. It's wonderful decision. I couldn't get there so far going because thanks to the power of Python. But it makes it very difficult to export it. Now this is Association rules. This is self tuning Association rules and I promise self tuning.

[783.0s - 812.0s]
Product name So what is name name is 3 things or more is a tool is a community is a company. Time.com AG is based in Sutic and is centered around the open source data mining tool name. Of which I will show you two versions and I hope you don't notice when I am using one and when the other. I must data mining the proper tools now have this. This is not what I wanted to show, it was this one. Have this structure whereby you have a set of nodes somewhere and you connect them together. For instance, you may have here there. My base learner and then I wish predictor and you connect them together from the back. You may not see much, but this says our freedoms. So this is I know that last seen on a year of FF file. You can make transformations in this case. I am changing number to string to have a classification problem because this file everything is numbers. The file if I remember correctly is. This concept contraception methods they want on the server, the ignition survey contraception I was mentioning before and then you run it through and a base learner and you fight feed the model you find into a predictor. Or you can use it. You can get the code from it. Hey, this is Prof are predicting the right label. Of course, if you use the same probabilities to predict the other labels to do very poorly. Or you can even do a cross validation data. This with the so called meta nodes you open the cross validation node and you find. Yeah, I don't think I should have. Here. There is no that makes it partitions one that makes the aggregations they communicate with each other automatically during simply insert in the middle your learner and your predictor, and it transductive Kirkus validation out of it. Whether this is similar to the complex goals of having. Modular. Don't know. I was thinking that. So this is the tool for each node that you select and some information comes in log messages come out there. You have an outline of the whole drawing because often you have a huge workflow that does not fit completely the screen and you want to share the outline outside and you have a number of workflows that are stored and your fabric nodes, repository and a number of other things. So this is. The control. Under research company behind it, which is a spinoff of University of constants, they keep a very strong relation. Actually the tool evolves from an earlier climbed tool, which was the constants information minor. OK, we have, which is what happened is the same as what happened with Java with. Sorry with waka and also with other tools with the difference that here at some point. They stopped the academic project hire software. Engineers said OK, we want this behavior, but you program it from the bottom up completely. Redoing it is written in Java, is an eclipse plug-in. It has not very large yet, but first fast growing user base with some contributors to. A license is not even GPL. Is GPL with an extra provisions that give us even further permissions to usage to use it, something I, as far as I understood, similar to the lesser GPL, but not exactly this, and they get revenues from licensing because there is no way of licensing the software and it is the same piece of software is not a different version to open source and they promise it's going to be the same one. But licensing has some guarantees of tech support and schedule it releases and such things and also development of customized solutions. For instance for pharma. For my company, so we may want their own algorithms running in that way, and they may develop them for them without making this programming accessible generally accessible.

[812.0s - 841.0s]
Now stuck had a few key moments. The first actually I realized later that journalistically happened in the reverse order at some point I was I had started to think about whether to port this program into climb. I talked to Nicholas here this room. Then I talked to the CEO of Nine when he came to Barcelona for HTML PDF percent at Neiman Industrial Day and we had a very exciting evening conversation. And then we went on to the harvest submission, acceptance and development, where the largest student from University of Cantabria who spent with 9 the whole summer. And important issues he managed to spend a fraction of the budget. He found our room in the student dorms and. What level are you? Under Zachary Node Works, we presented it at the harvest session that we had in Waipa and there is but here. So let me explain how it. How it works is simple. You just go to the where the name thing is and there is a folder there called droppings and you just drop in. Literally speaking, the CJR file with your program provided of course that you have programmed it on top of the API of the system. Just drop it in. And this is what you need. Because then you have in the menu of nodes that you can use the Association or other Association rules that they have. But here appears jakare basically associator, and you will see I am brave. I will run it now. Instead of being in it now, of course I am cheating at little bit, because if I run it now, directly speaking, it will take some more minutes that I then I want to afford here. So I change it. I tweaked the support parameter for it to finish in a few seconds. And then you have here. Rules that you can output as single string or as a table with. This is the format that the other associators in the same tool use, so he's this is vector and machining plus support. This is the one that we have mentioned before. No. What is the butt? Actually. Wonderful things are coming out of this harvest project, but they may not be exactly the wonderful things I intended for. When I apply for it. What is the but the bad?

[841.0s - 870.0s]
Is that from Python to Java? The gap was much bigger than I expected. Actually we were using a number of features of Python that are very close to functional programming iterators that were worked very, very smoothly and I knew that Java had it aerators. But it turns out they are much less powerful than the Python Python editor Eighters. So have you had a difficult time in making up the translation and had to take a number of decisions that were difficult to govern the tool? It's not exactly easy to use because you have seen that there is extra nodes before for preprocessing, and it's unclear why they have to be there. And mainly there is a. Mainly the main objection is speed. I expected that Python was going to be very slow. It turns out that how is not much faster. So this means that if we want to get some speed and this example you show is fake innocence, normal run will run with very low initial support instead of very high initial support, and then will take much more a few minutes. Not not days, but quite a few minutes 5 to 15 minutes. And moving it into Tsfa inspected it to be faster and running on top of climb and it doesn't, it doesn't. And occasionally there are a couple of places where the results were not what I expected them, so I have just not to make it available yet. To the nine tech lab. And in the meantime, we have found a different, faster algorithm to traverse the clusters. It is submitted to a conference and the plan is OK. Maybe this is this was slow and technologically we could not make it that faster. Let's look at the algorithms and make better algorithmics. And we were successful and it was very fun. So.

[870.0s - 899.0s]
We had some leftover funds because Javier had not spent. Oh I love it and I suggested to Nicolette. We could maybe go on with a temporal extension with no additional funding and different student because heavier is left. Different student who is familiar with that along with the project will visit nine month sometime along this year. 2 first replace the closure latest reversal by with a new algorithm to workout usability improvements and.

[899.0s - 928.0s]
Check number of things. I will finish by mentioning that this was. Very interesting opportunity to learn about the problems of cooperation with companies very close by main speed. They're producing a new release every so often and. You didn't notice. I have been. I have shown to you two different versions of time. The first one was the latest one. 250 no, it's not deleted, but second last. The Yaccarino does not work with this version because the way it caused the memory manager whatever has to be tweaked. I show it in the running on a previous version. So this all these sort of things has to clarify habit to be clarified. And of course the company is not going to take over the maintenance of our piece of software until they see very clearly that it pays off. So it will take some time for us to reach to the user base and prove that it is useful before we can rely on it being updated along the successive developments of mine. And I am not sure how to handle this from the very limited in terms of funding situation in UPC and University of Canterbury at the moment for research. But the good news is that in the meantime, climb is planning to apply for a 50 open strip with two universities. And we are one of them. So this the shell proposal was accepted. We are working on the full one. I have high hopes to keep on board with this connection to climb weather Jacory will actually be. For this year it will be because we have some leftover funds and we will keep moving, pushing it forwards next year. I don't know, but in the mean time, if we have this project, maybe somebody's related to climate through this project and can help us with keeping it alive. I don't know, time will say thank you very much. Was anyone from K9 directly participating and contributing to the project, or was it more like the student from University goals on the company's premises works there and then there needs to be a transfer to the company? This is a good question. I don't really know because I was not permanently there. The agreement was that one, so there are other associates, journals in name and the person who had programmed disassociated was programming, yet another one. Exporting from Christian borgelt software. So he was in principle he was there to support heavier in the programming. As far as I can see can say I was reading the couple of opportunities and have able to stop at some point and say no no, but this let me ask obvious and he would go on to next door to us and he would come immediately and help us with whatever. To what extent Toby's actually wrote lines of code this signature? Even even more than kind of writing lines of code is having acquiring a sense of ownership of the outcome of the project, because that implies some kind of personal investment than in having maintained an integrated in the in the official yet to this site, which I do have a clear answer at the personal level to be S Carter was absolutely had a sense of contributing to the project, and he came to the harvest session to give the presentation about what name was. And we have a lot of connection with him, but tovias may easily leave name. And, uh, I don't. I cannot say the same for the whole company, so the CEO is is interested in the topic is interested in the node, likes very much of the node is there, but I am not sure it will be a disaster to him if it doesn't. So there are two levels there, and one of them we want the person definitely for outside but not the coal company. It seems that you had to do quite a lot of kind of working around can I'm in order to get your particular exit? Yeah, data to happen. It seems that given you're really changing the way in which the mind. You changed the way in which the mining works because you're doing this thresholding and reduction and carrying on so that that seems to be something that would be more a change to the core of climb. The change pre processing module. Maybe it is not clear that command is really helping you in this particular harvest. I OK there are these two different questions for the first one, I don't think we're changing much. I mean do the preprocessing is the same as is necessary for other associations, reminders that they have already inclined, so only that it is not that I think it's not the right one for the users, but it is sort of so that the other tourist Association rule minors. They didn't quite different processing systems. Both of them are non trivial. And one of them is the same that we are using. But I there should be a better solution for the whole thing and but this is still consistent with the internal stuff of mine. On the other hand. The. API of name was. Not really that contribution. So what name is affording us is not name the tool but the visibility. As soon as we get into our notes I am confident enough on the new node. Open it up and put it on 9 laps and see what happens from there. OK, so the slowness was not the result of kind of clumsy interface between 9:00 and noon, not at all. Not at all. Not at all. Well, one of their slowness issues was the timing I had in mind could not be feasible at all at the for a number of reasons, and then the person I had in mind, I arrived too late to fish him in and I had to find a replacement person. Oh sorry, I thought you meant the slowness of the harvest project, which is actually well too. It was a slow to start and it's slow, slow to finish. The slowness of the algorithm essentially comes up because there's this potential specially large spaces prediction. Yeah, but it seems that you know this things like for example France is fax kind of hierarchical basis work, sparse basis, work things like this which attaching similar kinds of areas that you don't really need to do this exponential explosion. If you're willing to prune as you go down, the depth of the search tree. So it's not clear to me that the full kind of weight of the exponential really needs to fall on you. Now we can talk about this a bit later, I don't. If you have a fixed threshold. And you want to accept more possible rules above a given threshold, then yes, it falls on you. But if you have a threshold which says, OK, well I'm only interested in in. OK, I got I got. Yeah yeah yeah, I get. I get what you mean. And indeed it's true. There is a theorem that connects the confidence boost to parameter that can be evaluated along the way by comparing supports. And we prune a number of things along the way. We do that still. The the task is cool and so, but just this is absolutely correct and we have found ways of doing this. I wanted is it linked to alter what Carlos did in his PhD? It's linked each link it so you're doing a sort of sampling. No, we are. We are not adding something that this. This could be a possibility later on, but it's related to the. A hypergraph transversals. Paper headed with Nina Mishra and Lenny Pitt. Essentially, this is the same combinatorial problem that is behind, so there is a relation but is not to the I mean the PC. Of course I was thinking of his master. No, no, no is not not at the moment we may keep working on trying to find that connection. Yeah, it seems that kind of easy. You just using machine learning to to help you, but there are a number of randomized variations of these suffer. None seems to be. Acknowledge these structures. General high level comment on what you said. Was it because to some extent you make the people from datamining look like fools and in the. Say that. It would be fair to to say that they proceed in an entire different way, and we might find it completely ridiculous, but the point is, the divergent is rooted in the fact that they consider that the database is the world, whereas we think that the database is sample of the world they have been proposing, and everyone proposing hundreds of indicators and and to me one point would be to build an interestingness function. On the top of these indicators. And some of them are saying we don't believe that interesting less functions are interesting. Yeah, actually the nine come there. Nine people is very. I mean it's at University spin off the published papers, bossing in all areas. They're not hardcore data mining people, so they're very happy to include the sampling node there a sampling process there, and there will be no objection for that for that point. I think we should move on actually because we're a little behind schedule. Thank you, thank you.
