And hence different range of applicability and and the range of results that can be obtained. I'll show you in a minute, some comparisons with 10 fold cross Validation PAC, Bayes bound and the. And in the case of the bounds, we select the pair that minimizes the bound. And the tightness of the bound. Here's the prior PAC. I would claim was pioneered in Russia by Vapnik and Sherman and Kiss. Then use the PAC Bayes theorem with a a novelty that the prior has this elongation in the direction of WR. So final concluding remarks, just hopefully I've given you a feeling for their different approaches. They're both aiming at sort of analyzing the performance of learning systems and through some crosstalk between them. So I've tried to give you a reasonably detailed look inside the ingredients of the theory, hopefully not. Learning the kernel, you certainly don't want to do model selection in the way that I've done it, which is just pick a finite set you want to somehow get. How other performance of this model selection approach is affected by different currents? OK, OK, you can imagine that classic SVM compare form good model selection also with not good bands. In some sense, you know that it can't mislead you by that much, whereas if it's a very weak bound you know might look good on this data set. Has is that statement of the type that with probability at least one minus Delta, where Delta is some small, you know, sort of parameter. So probably any classifier from the hypothesis class which has low training error will have low generalization error. So now a little bit of background to the Bayesian approach. So it the name derives from Bayes theorem which I recently understood maybe shouldn't have been called base theorem. Generating the data here we're assuming a distribution over functions, or in our case classifiers and then what we do is we have a given a data item now, so one of our training data items we can say based on that item, how likely that a particular classifier might be. So if that classifier misclassified as that data item, then we downgrade its probability. Which is the distribution over the classifiers after you've seen the data? But it's bias. OK, so that's that's what you're left with is posterior distribution. Now, if you're a true Bayesian, you will classify according to the expected classification under that posterior distribution. So the guys that were good on the training data get more weight and are more likely to. OK, and one of the very interesting so. And this allows you. And this is known as the evidence for a model, and it was proposed by David Mackay back in about 1992, I think. So in the case if we look at the we only allow consistent, so we give zero probability, two points that are two functions that misclassify any of the training data. The prior volume in the prior distribution of what's called version space. Later on, I'll give you a. And the Gaussian process is for regression are justified within this model and there the prior is a Gaussian prior in this. Locus of points in whitespace for which the output of the. And here's the second data point. So the this side of this line corresponds to correct classification at the second training point. So all weights that are in this region sort of to the left of this line and below this line correctly classify X1 and X2 and Similarly X3. All of the four training points. So we could think of the evidence if we were using this noise model, which said zero probability of making an error. The evidence here would be the integral over this region where all of the the points are correctly classified under the prior distribution, which we might assume is uniform, and so this circle would therefore be the sort of largest inscribed sphere or circle in that correctly classified region and that could be used as some sort of estimate for the evidence. So this is really the idea came from linking evidence and generalization and this link was suggested actually by David Mackay very early on the idea that the evidence might be an indicator of good generalization. So remember good generalization doesn't really mean anything to a Bayesian because he doesn't have a probability distribution on the. Bob Williamson and myself obtained first sort of formal link, where we basically analyzed the generalization of a classifier based on the volume of that inscribed sphere. And this was sort of surprising result in some respects. So the user luckiness framework and so it's a data dependent style of frequentist bound and it's similar in spirit to the bounds the way that the SVM generalization is bounded. OK, so you can sort of think of in the case of SVM you bound in terms of the margin of the classifier. Basically we've got a class of classifiers. Over these functions, which will be data dependent on the data. This P must be chosen before learning, but the bound will hold for all choices of Q. So that means that you can choose Q to get the best bound based on your data and essentially choosing Q corresponds to choosing your classifier in some sense, so choosing Q is like choosing the classifier. So the bound works that, provided you choose your P ahead of time. Whatever Q you choose, the bound will hold OK, so it's so. What does it mean to be correct as a prior distribution is it's a very difficult question for a Bayesian to answer, however, that all falls away here because the results are going to be true. Whatever choice of P you make, just if you make a bad choice, then you get a bad resulting bound, so it's not you know the issue goes away. So again, we're going to assume an unknown distribution on the input space. So where things start to get interesting is that the bound of the performance is not of a classifier, but other probabilistic classifier. So we actually when we take a test point X, we choose a classifier according to our posterior distribution and then return the classification of that classifier on that input. Yeah, so if you're unfortunately, that's yeah, that is different. So that's the picture to have in mind, so we're interested in these two quantities. The error as we choose C according to this posterior distribution of the true error, and then the expectation of as we choose C according to Q of the empirical error, right? Talk about this core result that I think is a very beautiful theorem proving by Matthias Egan and David McAllister, so I'll give you a little bit of detail. Also, in a little bit of detail about how it's applied to support vector machines. Any point X mixed misclassified by this guy here, there must be at least half of the season probability weight under Q that misclassify. Where is so this is the case of a finite class of functions, so you've got H1 up to HN. But let's say you just choose a single function and put all your weight on that function. And all of the others are zero, so they disappear. Situation here we are allowing this queue to select not just one function but a whole. OK. And this is the expectation of the true errors. Of the two Security Environments, Service supports just to provide one. OK, this sort of the mathematicians argument that it's sort of the right bound, you know, kind of. Not good. Actually, this idea of learning the prior, which I think is kind of a nice. Olivia Catone has extended the result to exchangeable distributions and therefore being able to get a pack based version of the vapnik churning kiss bands and other things as well. Slightly tighter in the way it deals with the. Germaine and I'll have extended to more general loss functions than just binary. End up with some results, so this is sort of more like. Detail example to just give you a flavor of what can be achieved. And the the posterior will be centered essentially in the direction of the chosen weight vector. So that's the true performance of the stochastic classifier. But you take that, so it comes as the center of the Gaussian, and it gives the same classification as the half space with more weight. And this is going to give the same classification as the center of the Gaussian, because the center of the Gaussian is it spherical, will be on the same side of the hyperspace hyperplane as that which has more weight because it's vertical take a hyperplane, the center of the Gaussian is on the side with more weight. OK, and that's just that same argument as before that the you know, for any misclassified there must be at least half of the sea according to this Q that. OK, that may be a motivation, but the idea is to try and capture the key elements that enable an understanding and analysis of the phenomenon. What are the critical components that we can then. So in our case, the prior was the Gaussian at the origin, but maybe we could do a better prior, because notice that the key thing is the distance between the prime posterior. You know, foreshadow the direction that the weight vector was going to move. Idea is that we could learn the prior using the first. Maybe part of the data and then learn the you know actually do the the generalization analysis, just with the second part of the data. We might still end up with the same support vector machine that we use at the end, but we might just have a tighter bound on its performance.