Proposed to account for the non Euclidean geometry of SPD matrices and these methods typically follow two different approaches. Of course there's been other works on dimensionality reduction of SPD matrices. And so it's also the case of covariance, discriminative learning, which also approximates the manifold with its tangent space and then find the discriminative Euclidean subspace of the resulting Euclidean space. Still are SPD matrices, so they still benefit from the same useful properties, and they can be used in conjunction with existing manifold based techniques. An in practice will consider two different metrics on the manifold. The first metric is the affine invariant Romanian metric that was introduced by panic and colleagues in 2006, and that reduces geodesics on the manifold. So recall that our goal is to map a high dimensional SPD matrix X through a lower dimensional 1F of X. We would like the low dimensional SPD manifold to have a distance that reflects the notion of affinity between the high dimensional SPD matrices. So in practice will use the class labels to define the notion of affinity, and we'll set AIJ to one if XJ is a nearest neighbor of XI from the same class. Interest will set AIJ to minus one if XJ is the nearest neighbour of XI from a different class. We also need W to have full rank. And because of these orthogonality constraints, this can be a problem in optimization problem on either a Stifel or a Grassmann manifold, and the difference is that for the Grassmann manifold 2 matrices that are the same up to a rotation actually correspond to exactly the same point on a manifold. First one is a nearest neighbor classifier on the low dimensional manifold, and this classifier evidences the benefits of dimensionality reduction more clearly, do too in simplicity. It also can exploit both the fine environment Romanian metric and this time metric and the second classifier that we use is the RSR classifier. And then of course, after our dimensionality reduction, we evaluated the two nearest neighbor classifiers well and also the RSR classifier. This data set contains 18 classes and we using 10 different partition between training and test data. And the parameters of our approach were obtained by cross validation and these parameters are the dimensionality of the low dimensional manifold, the number of neighbors of the same class when building the affinity matrix, the number of neighbors of a different class when building the affinity matrix. Now, unfortunately, if you have high dimensional features then you have very large descriptors and these descriptors can be very hard to handle. The second experiment we performed action recognition from motion capture data, and for this we use the HTML5 datasets. This data set contains 14 different actions an we use two subjects to train our method an three subjects to test it, and in this case there are no images. So to conclude, we have introduced an approach to mapping high dimensional SPD matrices to lower dimensional. Here's a practical way to handle large SPD matrices with existing recognition algorithms, and so in the future we plan to extend a framework to using different cost functions and for instance to end of the unsupervised scenario or the semi supervised scenario an.